i-1024368cfae3c7fa-5	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, UU9 on the strengthening of the export control of military equipment. For many countries, arms exports are a foreign policy tool to gain benefits at the expense of other countries, not least with regard to the world's various powers. But for Sweden this is not the case, but here all decisions on arms exports are weighed against the consequences for other countries and their inhabitants. In this way, our export control of armaments has developed into what it is today, namely the second most stringent legislation in the world. Only Japan has stricter legislation. It may be good to recall this, Mr President, because sometimes in the debate it sounds like our arms exports are completely unregulated. Such a claim is therefore, to say the least, wrong. In its proposal, the government proposes the introduction of a democracy criterion. This has been a recurring topic of debate in these contexts in this House, and we have in the past expressed cautiously in favour of its introduction. As always in foreign policy, it is important to understand the fact that not all countries work just like Sweden. That is why we have stated in the past that a democracy criterion should not be what we call absolute, but rather a more nuanced assessment. We also think that the bill has landed in this. Mr President, I would like to Sweden, Swedish defence capabilities and our freedom of alliance have benefited from the fact that we have had a well-functioning domestic defence industry. Thanks to its availability, we, as a country, have been able to remain neutral and independent of the willingness of other states to sell war material to us – something which was not least positive for the detour when the Cold War was as cold as it was and which is also positive now that the security situation around the Baltic Sea has deteriorated. However, in order to survive, the Swedish defence industry depends entirely on its exports. A good example of this is the fighter aircraft JAS 39 Gripen. Thanks to the sale of Gripen to Brazil, Saab and Sweden have been given the opportunity to continue developing the aircraft and maintain our domestic aviation industry. If the sale had not been carried out, this would probably not have been possible – something that would have led to very negative consequences for our aviation industry, the ability of the Swedish Air Force and our taxpayers. One condition that is also absolutely crucial for our exports of armaments is the consequential supply. The country that buys an armaments system from us must be able to rely on them to buy ammunition, spare parts and upgrades for a long time – decades – from us. Therefore, there is today a presumption of consequential supply, which can only be broken by changing conditions for the unconditional obstacles – internationally binding agreements, binding sanctions and international law rules on neutral states during war. Now a slight slippage is proposed in the assessment that is difficult to interpret. However, it is easy to note that subsequent deliveries do not require stricter assessment. Other armed forces buying supplies from us have the same security of supply needs as our own armed forces. If we want to sell equipment systems, we must also sell ammunition for, spare parts for and upgrades to what we have exported. To delete from the list of what should be considered as consequent deliveries will give Swedish industry a bad reputation. With this comes the risk of reduced exports and in the longer term dismantling of the Swedish defence industry, with negative consequences for Sweden as a result. Mr President, I would like to What we Swedish democrats may respond to most strongly in the government bill is the proposed new PGU criterion. The criterion requires Sweden to assess what is best for a recipient country. Let us ask ourselves whether a country really can afford war material or whether it should instead purchase food, schoolbooks or something else that is considered more important. We in Sweden will therefore assess what is best for an individual country, which can be very difficult. One question one might ask is what our Finnish brothers would have said if, instead of ammunition, they had only received bread from us during the winter war. We believe that it must be the recipient country that assesses what it needs and what it can afford. If the country's regime is aggressive or otherwise unstable, it still falls under the democratic and human rights criteria. We therefore totally reject the introduction of a PGU criterion. Such a criterion makes Swedish export control completely different from the other countries in sex nation cooperation, and instead of making the rules more similar to each other, it is exactly the opposite. With four different conditional obstacles in the export control guidelines, we have the tools we need: the MR criterion, the democracy criterion, the conflict criterion and the diversion criterion. The PGU criterion is unclear and dangerous and should therefore not be included. Mr President, I would like to It is completely naive to believe that exports in the world will stop if Sweden puts a stop to itself and stops exporting. Of course, it is then someone else who sells – someone who does not live up to the already high standards Sweden has. It would be better if Sweden worked to ensure that other countries caught up with Sweden and the already high standards we have, instead of continuing to make ourselves more difficult and impossible to deal with. We cannot sit and judge from the PGU whether countries should buy defence equipment from Sweden or not. It is a matter for individual countries to assess their own security policy situation. We therefore believe that the PGU criterion will limit Swedish arms exports in an unpredictable way and that our international partners risk breaking contacts with Sweden. Other countries' armaments export producers have already begun to work for competitive purposes to crowd Swedish companies out of important materiel cooperation. Only the discussion on arms exports and the KEX investigation, which led up to the government proposal, have adversely affected the Swedish defence industry. Presuming buyer countries have shown uncertainty as to whether Swedish exports can be trusted in the future. The defence industry can testify to this. So the situation is critical. We in politics should be grateful that the Swedish defence industry remains. The conditions are already difficult. If exports are severely reduced, Swedish defence companies will have to either leave the country or, with their capital, leave the industry. Both options would be a disaster for Swedish armaments supply and our freedom of alliance. If Sweden is forced to trade all its armaments abroad in the future, it will lead to increased costs, with the result that we get less armaments for the grant – something that will affect our military capabilities very negatively. Our defence industry is also very technology driven and invests more in research than Chalmers and KTH do together. It is also something that would disappear if defence companies were forced to move abroad or lay down their activities. One should also remember all the jobs in the country created by the defence industry both directly and indirectly. Another reason to protect our defence industry is that access to our own advanced technology opens up the foreign market for Sweden. Only those with their own advanced technology can negotiate for themselves the most modern armaments from other countries. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected and for reservation to be accepted 1.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-22	Mr President, I would like to Swedish arms exports have long been examples of double standards. While the government talks about the importance of democracy, peace and women's rights, Sweden armes belligerent dictatorships that systematically violate human rights. It became clear both during the Arab Spring and now, when six out of ten countries participating in the brutal warfare of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen have purchased Swedish weapons. In countries such as India, South Africa and Brazil, our country Sweden is too many closely linked to corruption-scanned arms trades. The fact that Sweden sold arms to belligerent dictatorships during the Arab Spring aroused anger and outrage and led to the Riksdag deciding in May 2011 that the government would return with a new legislation that tightens the control of arms exports to dictatorships. It took the government over a year to set up a committee to review arms exports. In June 2015, the Committee submitted its final report. Just over two years later, the government submitted a proposal which broadly follows the proposals presented by the KEX investigation. The new regulatory framework is proposed to enter into force on 15 April 2018, almost seven years after the Parliament's announcement. It has been shocking, to say the least, to see how the government has been able in just over six months to implement legislative changes that severely restrict the possibility for people in Sweden to seek refuge from war and oppression, while at the same time having taken nearly seven years to make proposals to limit the sale of the weapons that create this repression and to force people to flee. During these seven years, Sweden has exported war material to non-democrats for about SEK 20 billion. The responsibility for this rests with both the present and the former governments. The Left Party was the driving force behind the decision to tighten the regulatory framework for arms exports, and we welcome the fact that a proposal is now being made. This means some positive changes in clarifying the government's responsibility for arms exports. It also limits the definition of consequential supplies and increases the transparency of exports. On the main issue, however, we believe that the proposal is inadequate and will probably make very little difference. Mr President, I would like to In our motion to the Government's proposal, we have made several suggestions on how the regulatory framework can be changed in a more restrictive direction, but also on transparency and on the import of war material. We in the Left want to stop the export of armaments to dictatorships and human rights abuses. We have therefore put forward a proposal to this effect to enable Parliament to comply with the decision it took in May 2011. I hereby request the approval of reservation 2. The bill presented states that the democratic status must be a central condition for determining whether or not the state in question is appropriate to sell arms to and that serious shortcomings in the democratic status must constitute obstacles to exports. This sounds good, but there is still to be an overall assessment. We have seen too many times how the interests of the arms industry have gone before any democratic shortcomings. That is why the Left Party wants to see a real stop to arms exports to dictatorships. That is why we believe that the democracy criterion should be formulated as a requirement. Also in terms of respect for human rights in the recipient countries, the wording is too weak. The ISP – the authority that assesses whether arms exports should be granted – itself says that the proposal does not strengthen the current regulatory framework, which allows arms exports to several serious human rights abuses. Mr President, I would like to The government often points out that it is the first in the world to pursue a feminist foreign policy. We in the Left Party have on several occasions praised the government's efforts to strengthen women's rights in the world. However, in the Swedish policy for the export of armaments, the feminist perspective is lacking – as is the government's new proposal. In the list of what according to practice should be perceived as serious crimes, for some strange reason, does not mention violations of women's rights. The final report of the KEX study highlights the legitimising effect of arms exports and why this should play a role in decisions on exports to dictatorships or human rights abuses. Writings on the legitimizing effect of armaments exports can be found in the bill by reference to KEX's work but not as part of the government's own assessment. We in the Left Party believe that such wording is needed and would be an important guide in deciding on permits. Under the current regulatory framework, it is relatively easy to obtain a licence for the export of armaments in the case of subsequent deliveries. We can see from the example of Pakistan that the regulatory framework for consequential supplies has been permitting. Although no new business with Pakistan has been granted since 2007 due to the serious situation in the country, we see how Swedish exports of armaments continue in the form of consequential deliveries in 2017. The definition of consequential deliveries will be narrowed down by the bill, which is a welcome step. However, we want to see all exports tested according to the regulatory framework and subject to the criterion of human rights and democracy. The Government's proposal implies some increased transparency and transparency. In addition to full members of the Export Control Council, alternates shall also be appointed to enable discussions on the confidential matters between party colleagues. In addition, the Government's report to the Riksdag will be developed, and the Government will submit statements regarding export control issues to the Swedish Advisory Council for Foreign Affairs. The Left Party welcomes these changes, but considers that further proposals to increase transparency and transparency are needed, for example as regards who appoints representatives to the EKR and that their positions are made public except when this clearly conflicts with confidentiality. In 2016, Sweden has exported weapons to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Pakistan, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand and Jordan. All these states are classified as dictatorships or as states with major democratic shortcomings, according to Freedom House. These lists usually look like that year after year, and this can continue to be the case with the legislative changes that the government is now proposing. In order to determine whether the intention behind the proposal – and the directives for the KEX investigation – has been met, the changes in the regulatory framework should be evaluated after three years, so that we can clearly see whether they have involved the enhanced export control of war material intended. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy and a country that actively works for peace and disarmament and condemns any violation of human rights, regardless of where, by whom or with what motives they are committed. For Sweden to be able to do this with credibility, we must stop arming dictatorships. The arms export investigation provided a historic opportunity to settle the double standards of Swedish arms exports. The fact that the government, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats did not take this opportunity and fail to live up to their Congress decisions to stop arms exports to dictatorships is, to say the least, distressing. In May 2011, when the Riksdag decided that the regulations should be tightened up, leading representatives of the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party wrote together at the DN Debate that they committed themselves to a regulatory framework that in practice should not allow the export of war material to dictatorships. It is now clear that the Left Party is alone in standing by that position. Mr President, I would like to A large majority of the Swedish people want to see a ban on arms exports to dictatorships. There is still a chance, together with us, here in Parliament, to change the regulations and to ensure that Sweden stops exporting arms to repressive regimes.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-43	Mr President, I would like to When I listened to Yasmine Posio Nilsson's speech, I had the impression that she and the Left Party would like to kill the Swedish defence industry altogether. This is what would be the consequence if arms exports were to be stopped. It would be interesting to hear what Yasmine Posio Nilsson believes that killing the Swedish defence industry will achieve in a global perspective. Does she believe that arms exports in the world will stop? We should bear in mind that Sweden already has the second most stringent export legislation in the world, after Japan. Would it not be better to try to get other countries to meet the same high standards that we already have today than to possibly kill the Swedish defence industry?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Söder, for the question! It clearly shows the great dividing line between us. You see no problem with us exporting weapons to countries with democratic shortcomings or even dictatorships. This also applies not only to arms, but also to consequential supplies, if the country in question subsequently turns out to be a dictatorship or a country with democratic shortcomings. The big difference is, of course, also evident in the question of whether our defence should gain access to cheap weapons by selling weapons to countries such as the Philippines, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-47	Mr President, I would like to I also mentioned this in my speech: the debate sometimes gives the impression that we do not have any legislation at all in this area. But we have the second most stringent legislation in the world. I agree that we should not sell arms to pure dictatorships, to states that violate human rights, that use weapons against their own population or that wage aggression wars against neighbouring countries – certainly not. But we already have legislation, and if we follow the rules we have there, it will well live up to limiting such opportunities. Otherwise, it is due to shortcomings in meeting the high standards. The Swedish defence industry, Mr President, provides directly around 30 000 jobs and indirectly 100 000 jobs. It would be interesting to listen to what Yasmine, who represents a workers' party that protects jobs, says to these 130 000 people when she kills the Swedish defence industry. That is what will be the result of further tightening up and impinging on the defence industry of our own country. The defence industry will have to choose between moving the technology development industry and everything abroad and changing the industry. What is said to all those employed by the defence industry? It would be interesting to hear, especially now that it is an election year and you will go out to the streets and squares and say that you represent Swedish workers.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-52	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Björn Söder, we have strict legislation, but we do not follow it. After all, the profits that are being made today are being made on arms and other war material sold to dictatorships and other states with very dubious democratic status. We cannot allow ourselves to have an industry that lives by profiting from the death of other people. It cannot be the conditions under which our workers in our country, in Sweden, want to work. I think they would rather work with other types of industry.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-54	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate on the strengthening of export controls on armaments is and has been longed for by many, and there are widely differing reasons for this. During the years from 2011, when the Riksdag decided to announce to the government that it would return with proposals for new armaments legislation in order to tighten export control of armaments against non-democratic states, activity has been large both inside and outside the Riksdag. This has meant that we have and have had a very lively debate, which we Social Democrats think is good. We believe that the proposal before the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the report now before Parliament has gained a great deal from this debate as we now present and debate the results. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs' report deals with several areas, such as the democratic status of the host state, the strengthening of the human rights criterion, the consideration of fair and sustainable development, consequential supplies, international cooperation in the field of defence, increased transparency and transparency, sanctions, entry into force and so on. In the committee work we have together managed to achieve a broad political majority, which we Social Democrats think is very good and which guarantees continued broad consensus when future governments are going to deal with these issues. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned at the outset that the reasons were and are very different. I do so on the basis of the meetings I attended myself. The starting points of these meetings have been from the fact that no further restrictions on the possibility of selling war material would be made to the fact that the restrictions would be so great that in future Sweden could not have any exports at all of what might be termed war material. Mr President, I would like to In the bill that a large majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee has decided to support, the government has delivered what Parliament has given it the task to do. In the paragraph dealing with the starting points for the examination of the sale of war material, it is stated in Section 4: Authorisation may be granted only if there are reasons for security or defence policy and this does not conflict with Sweden's international obligations or foreign policy in general. ..................................................... Paragraph 5 states that, except where the international obligations imply that authorisation may not be granted, the authorisation shall be based on an overall assessment of the security, defence and foreign policy reasons that argue for or disagree with the granting of authorisation. For the purposes of the certification of exit and other cooperation abroad, particular attention shall be paid to the democratic status of the receiving State, the respect of human rights and freedoms by the State, whether the State is in an armed conflict or whether the State is in danger of entering an armed conflict. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to This wording will not put an end to our arms exports, as some fear. But it will make a big difference as we now take more grounds into the trial, as I have just explained. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-65	Mr President, I would like to In 2013, Stefan Löfven said that it should not be okay to export arms to countries that are clearly dictatorships. But in the seven years since the Riksdag in May 2011, Sweden has sold war material for nearly 20 billion to dubious countries and obvious dictatorships. Compared to the period before, there is an increase of over 100 percent. In view of this, it should not be so difficult to enter an absolute condition of not selling arms to non-democrats or dictatorships. Already in the current law, there are wordings that such exports should not take place, but with the addition that an overall assessment should be made. This overall assessment has obviously been inclined to the advantage of the armaments industry – an industry that we could hear this weekend sees no reason why they need to take any ethical considerations into account. The proposed amendments still allow the same type of overall assessment, so that such sales will end cannot be guaranteed. Why don't you want to enter an absolute condition in the changed law?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-69	Mr President, I would like to I think we have taken into account exactly the views expressed by the Left Party. At the same time, however, we think that an assessment should be made, and this assessment is up to the current government to do on the basis of the information then available. I don't think that's unreasonable. If we now set an absolute criterion, we do not know whether it will work in a few years' time, depending on the circumstances – and that is precisely the circumstances that should be taken into account when granting permission. I take it as criticism when the Left Party says it has taken seven years. At the same time, I hear the Left Party say that we should have more. So seven years of treatment isn't enough? If we do not take this decision today, the old legislation will apply, and the Left Party just criticised it and said that legislation has been applied that does not take the measures that the Left Party wants. It's gonna be a little contradictory.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-72	Mr President, I would like to I thank Krister Örnfjäder for his answer. We have heard for a long time that you believe that this change of regulation will mean that exports will narrow down. However, it is not only the Left Party that questions your naive belief in the new legislative changes. Last night, many heavy-duty representatives of the Swedish Peace, IKFF, Amnesty International, Diakonia and the Christian Peace Movement wrote in a debate article that your proposal still leaves a great deal of room for interpretation. They also write that it thus depends on how we politicians interpret the regulations. It will be crucial if Swedish weapons are to end up with repressive regimes or if there is a real stop. The party members of the Social Democrats are also in favour of stopping weapons for dictatorships. It is therefore incomprehensible to me why you are not taking the opportunity with us, here in Parliament, to introduce an absolute stop to the export of arms to dictatorships. The fact that we want more into the report and question that it has taken so long is because so many parties have already clearly signalled that it is not okay to export weapons to dictatorships. We had been able to press ahead with the law that already existed and so that the industry could not export to so many countries. After all, exports have increased a lot in these seven years, which is strange, and that is why we are concerned. Do you, Krister Örnfjäder, feel that you can with good conscience go to your party colleagues and say that Sweden will no longer export weapons to dictatorships?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-77	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I feel like I can go to my party friends and say that. The proposal presupposes that the government takes account of the new rules in the legislation. Then it is up to the government to comply with these new rules. For me, there is a crucial difference between the assessment to be made after 15 April and the one that has been made before. To judge before a future government has gone in and taken action and say that this will not mean any change is to go ahead. The only thing that can judge future governments is history. If, in a number of years' time, we can see that, despite changes in legislation, there was no change, I am prepared to agree, but to say so before the legislation has come into being is not a fair way of dealing with our legislative power. We have the ambition of improving the situation with regard to what you are expressing, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, and we believe that we have delivered legislation that will make this possible. Then the governments will see to it that it becomes a reality.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-80	Mr President, I would like to This is the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is the bill the government has put on the table of Parliament and on which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has drawn up its report. This is the KEX investigation itself, which has become the proposal dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to illustrate by this that it is a rather thorough piece of work that is behind what has now landed in this bill. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal regarding a new modernised regulatory framework for Swedish exports of defence equipment is important for several reasons. Firstly, broad parliamentary agreement allows us now to endorse laws and regulations that are capable of being put in place for a long time and are not subjected to political patchwork. It creates predictability and provides the basis for long-termism. Secondly, it is ultimately a question of securing Swedish defence capabilities through access to a strong and viable defence industry. Clear and clear rules make it possible for exports and thus for Swedish companies, large and small, to develop capabilities even Sweden's defence can benefit from and through a broader customer base than only the Swedish market enable cost sharing and longer subseries. Mr President, I would like to The proposal is based on a foundation in the form of the so-called KEX investigation. It was over two years' work in a parliamentary committee with representatives of all eight parties in Parliament that I had the privilege of chairing. It was an extensive and not quite straightforward work. Through dialogue and listening to each other's best arguments, a broad consensus could be created. Even those Members who subsequently expressed dissent have expressed an appreciation of the work and the result we came up with in this investigation. I would therefore like to thank all Members for the important efforts they have made and to commend the way in which the Government has dealt with the matter further so that it has taken the form of the proposal that has now been tabled. Mr President, I would like to It may not happen every day in Parliament that representatives of the opposition say kind things about the holders of power, but here it is appropriate and shows that when it comes to Sweden's defence and security, it is a strength and something to be proud that we can build alliances across bloc and party borders for the benefit of the nation. Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the proposal of the investigation, the democratic status of the receiving State shall be a central condition for the examination of permits. More stringent demands must also be made on the respect of human rights by the host country. The proposal provides for the introduction of a new democracy criterion whereby, if there are serious shortcomings in the democratic status, it constitutes an obstacle to the export of Swedish weapons, that exports to dictatorships are made more difficult and that greater consideration should be given to violations of human rights when deciding on exports. This means tightening up in relation to the current regulatory framework. At the same time, it is maintained that the strategic product inspection, the ISP, has to normally take decisions on behalf of the government. Ultimately, therefore, it is a political process of disengagement between the various important interests of the nation. The so-called presumption of consequential supplies remains, and so does the division into war material for war and other war material. It is also about increased transparency and transparency in the area and about rules on increased licensing requirements and control. The proposal provides for an addition to the Armaments Act so that a permit may only be granted if it is not contrary to Sweden's international obligations. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a viable defence industry. Ultimately, it is about being able to guarantee a strong Swedish defence capability. In the perspective study presented by the Swedish Armed Forces as late as Friday, it is pointed out that the security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden continues to deteriorate. Among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces state four conditions that highlight why Sweden's defence needs to be further developed. First of all, increasing capacity. Russia is planning to continue to increase its military capabilities in the post 2020 period, while our own capabilities are declining with current planning. Secondly, the operational environment in the Baltic Sea region is assessed in the period up to 2035 as regards the purpose, scope and nature of an attack. Thirdly, Sweden will inevitably be affected if an armed conflict occurs in the Baltic Sea region. Fourthly, non-linear warfare is aimed at society as a whole, whose vulnerability to stress increases. Overall, Sweden faces significant security policy challenges in the coming years, and our defence capabilities need to be significantly strengthened. The Swedish Armed Forces also propose an extension of the number of the armed forces and to expand existing capabilities and add new capabilities to the organization. It's about all the combat forces. The proposals in the perspective study, and also in Ingemar Wahlberg's large material investigation, are in line with the ideas that we Moderates have presented to strengthen the defence. The Moderates also want the defence budget to reach 2% of GDP. The ambition is to achieve the goal within a ten-year period. We also point to a number of priority equipment projects. In all these and more, the Swedish defence industry, as is known, plays a key role. Access to high-tech equipment is something that will become increasingly important in the future conflict environment. Being at the cutting edge of technology is not free of charge, and we cannot develop all the materials ourselves. It is therefore central for the Swedish defence industry to also be able to sell to others than Sweden and be able to collaborate with other countries in development projects. Mr President, I would like to I think that the draft legislation on which we have a position today is a good and balanced compromise, which provides long-term rules for arms exports. For the Moderates it has been important to protect a strong Swedish defence capability and therefore also the Swedish defence industry. That is why we support the proposal for stronger export controls on armaments, in which we now support the modernisation of legislation and the emphasis on the democratic status of the receiving state. With those words, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-100	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's legislation and regulations on the export of armaments were codified in the early 1990s. There is therefore a well-established practice and principles that have guided the licensing of the export of war material for a little over a quarter of a century. It is important that the control of arms exports is based on a broad parliamentary basis. As the committee points out in the report under discussion today, this consensus contributes to creating stable and long-term conditions in the field of security policy as well as defence industry. The fact that we have reached broad agreement on new demands for arms exports increases the chances of political continuity, regardless of which parties will be included in future governments. This is something we should protect. At the same time, there are many of us who have stressed the need for more stringent legislation and practices in this area, not least we environmental partners. Swedish policy is based on a foundation on which human rights, democracy and the rule of law are fundamental values. Sweden should be an example in its commitment to these values, at home as well as in an international context. We have a long tradition of promoting respect for human rights in key international fora, for solidarity in humanitarian aid and for comprehensive aid. It is therefore important that arms exports do not discourage these efforts. The sale of Swedish-made armaments to countries that subject their population to extensive repression and that seriously violate human rights or commit equivalent abuse against other countries' populations is counterproductive towards our foreign policy and, moreover, something that we should not stand up for purely morally. The Green Party does not want Sweden to arm dictatorships. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, the broad agreement on new and strengthened arms export rules presented this summer is welcome. With it we are now taking a big step forward and showing global leadership for democracy and human rights and to prevent war material from being sold to oppressive, non-democratic countries in the future. We are now introducing a democracy criterion that will guide the licensing process as a central condition. If there are major democratic shortcomings in the country that wants to buy Swedish weapons, this should be an obstacle to the granting of export authorisations. The worse the democratic situation in the country, the less room there should be to give such a permit. We are making more stringent demands for respect for human rights. In the past, there have been obstacles to the sale of weapons when there are serious and widespread violations of human rights in a country. This wording is now being changed to a serious and comprehensive one. We are increasing political responsibility. Where there are significant security policy reasons, export authorisations shall be available. Here we in the Green Party wanted to go further and ban arms exports to dictatorships altogether. Nevertheless, an important part of the agreement is that more difficult and controversial cases will be decided politically. Then voters can hold politicians to account instead of the decision being taken by an anonymous authority. We have also tightened the requirements for subsequent deliveries. For larger weapon systems, consequential deliveries are common and spare parts and various updates continue to be sold long after the original purchase. Fewer products will now be counted as successive deliveries, and regular follow-ups will be carried out to ensure that the situation in the country of destination has not deteriorated. Mr President, I would like to The new agreement on strengthened requirements for democracy and human rights is an important step in preventing weapons from being exported to repressive regimes in the future. It is not perfect, and certainly I wish we could have gone further. But we now have a new common framework that represents real steps forward, and I am pleased about that. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-110	Mr President, I would like to As has already been shown, a parliamentary decision of 19 May is behind the bill that we are going to deal with today. The decision is a mission to strengthen export control, not of arms exports, but of armaments exports. It is important to mark this because it sometimes sounds like everything is just bullets and gunpowder. Here we have clearly chosen to adhere to the broad definition of armaments, and there is reason to emphasise this. On 1 June 2012, the then government appointed a parliamentary committee, KEX. I had the privilege of joining this committee, which delivered a result in June 2015. I would like to thank those in this House who have participated in this process, because it was important and valuable. Now we have a bill, and I am glad that we have broad consensus behind it. As has been shown in the debate, it is important for us to be able to get around this, because these are systems and issues that apply over a long period of time. It is a compromise – that is it, and compromises are sometimes hailed as an important basis for creating long-termism. We stick to the unconditional basics. For example, the decisions of the UN Security Council are an unconditional obstacle, and the government cannot take decisions contrary to them. We have tightened up the conditionality barriers that have emerged in the past. It concerns export controls in terms of democratic status, human rights, PGU testing, consequential deliveries and diversion, where the issue of being able to review and follow up with end-user certificates becomes a more important part of the work to ensure that materials are not put into service. We maintain that there are conditional obstacles in the case of countries with an internal armed conflict. One issue that has been very much discussed is transparency and transparency. We would have liked to have seen further clarification there, but we see that there are steps along the way in the compromise proposal. The letter can be clarified, and it is also about information in the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. There are steps along the way. We have the question of alternates in the Export Control Council so that the Council function can be more inclusive. There is also a small individual space to be able to handle matters within the framework of confidentiality legislation when everything is decided and debate takes place in the Riksdag. This is something that we will probably have to try and see more of in the future. It also makes clear, which is important, the responsibility of the government. Regardless of which government it is, the government is responsible for export control. It is still a political test to be carried out. It is not a matter to be dealt with in a court of law, but it is a political test to be carried out. In the investigation, we fully agreed that this would be the case. In this squad structure we have an authority whose Director-General has to make decisions, take advice from the Export Control Council if you are unsure about the situation and then hand it over to the government for review. Ultimately, then, it is the government that is always able to lift this up to its own table if you wish, because you are involved in this whole process. This is an important part of getting away from the discussion about who takes responsibility. Is anyone taking responsibility? This was part of what preceded the parliamentary decision in 2011. But here it is clear that it is the government that has the ultimate responsibility. The Government also reports to the Riksdag and to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs how it has handled its responsibilities. It is also clear that this is an overall assessment. It is not possible to say that this applies equally to all, but in each unique case the criteria and questions must be examined. It was also a broad consensus on holding the ISP as an authority for this, with the Export Control Council, as an opportunity for practice development as an important element. In the discussion that is taking place, I think there is reason to underline what is really the basis, namely that this is a prohibition law. You must not carry war material listed from Sweden without permission. It is important to emphasise this. But Sweden's security cuts through. If it is in Swedish security policy and defence policy interests, you can break the ban and give the go-ahead. Then, of course, it should be tested on the basis of the criteria that exist and which are also clarified in the bill. So it is not about jobs or anything else that is also included in the debate, but it is ultimately about Sweden's security and Sweden's defence needs. As has also been pointed out, it is not weapons, bullets and gunpowder that are at stake. It is also about different parts, such as war material, other war material and the PDA, i.e. dual-use items. All of this is involved in armaments. This means that Scania trucks from home Södertälje could be included. This means that safety nets can be included. This means that in some cases it may be the need for gunpowder and bullets that may be present. It may be a matter of sheet metal from Borlänge. All of this can be seen as war material, and it must therefore be tested. We had an increase in exports in 2017. However, 82 per cent of exports went to the EU, EEA countries, the USA, Canada, South Korea and Brazil. It was a marginal part that went to other countries. I would like to emphasise that we will see more cross-border cooperation, not least in the EU where the conditions for our joint action will be interesting to test. This applies, in particular, to ancillary delivery issues. But it is a tightening up, and it is important. Mr President, I would like to I note astoundingly that the Swedish Democrats are now calling for the whole proposal to be rejected and that the Left Party is calling for the proposal to be approved, but it has a different opinion on paragraph 2, which deals with guidelines. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-126	Mr President, I would like to As several speakers have mentioned, this is a product that has been born for more than two terms of office. The seed of it was sown in this House in 2011. I believe that this timing underlines the feelings, interests and, not least, the enormous amounts of money involved in these balances. Mr Wallmark thanked the members of the KEX investigation for their involvement in this product. I would also like to thank Mr Wallmark for his excellent leadership in the years we discussed these issues. For the Liberals, it has long been important to limit the export of armaments to non-democratic states. The only thing we know for sure when we send weapons to dictatorships is that these weapons will sooner or later be directed at their own people. I think it is a good thing to have a democracy criterion formulated as it is in the bill, and I would like to quote it: ..................................................... This is what KEX achieved as the great compromise when the democracy criterion was to be formulated. I fully agree with Krister Örnfjäder that there is a total agreement between the investigation's proposal and what the government has now delivered. I would also like to commend that. When this formulation was established in the investigation and we closed the books, we all said over the table that in any case the worst states with the least developed democracy and with the greatest amount of oppression are excluded. In the future, of course, authorities and also industry will reflect on what was intended when the wording came into being. Therefore, Mr President, I have now taken this opportunity to present to the history books the conclusion we reached. The worst examples have now been removed. It is extraordinary that successive deliveries are now being tightened up. It is now necessary that there is a direct link between the subsequent delivery and the previous export in order to maintain the presumption of authorisation. It is also good that we have increased transparency on some points. In fact, I believe that this very thing with transparency and a lower degree of discretion can be most effective in terms of the export of armaments. When discretion is great, I think there is something that can affect both the authorities and individual companies' balances. According to the Swedish Companies Act, individual companies should not take ethical considerations into account unless it is in a long-term profit interest, but companies should maximise their profits. The morale to be delivered may be delivered by the legislator. I believe, however, that we could have gone considerably further in terms of transparency. I agree with Kerstin Lundgren that follow-up of exports and physical inventory of the war material that has been exported is important to ensure that Swedish armaments are not diverted, as has happened from time to time. Many have said that broad political agreement allows us to hope for a long-term approach to the regulatory framework. I am not so enthusiastic about this. I believe that we are constantly living with change and changing values, and I believe that we will be able to look forward to regular regulatory reviews. Sweden does not export to countries that are in armed conflict or that are in danger of entering an armed conflict. The Liberals exercised in the Riksdag in connection with the bill that Sweden should be more open when it comes to exports to those countries that defend themselves as democracies or who defend the peace and freedom of others. I do not have a request for this today, but the Liberals are open to return in these parts. Mr President, I would like to We will now see how the implementation of the new regulatory framework will be. A little bit, I would warn the Left Party: if you are too critical and think that what is now being proposed is completely toothless, it may, unfortunately, also contribute to the fact that the application is not as sharp as we would have hoped. It's just a heads-up in the context. Mr President, I would like to The fact that there have been exports in recent weeks to countries with dubious democratic status indicates enough that there are those who believe that the regulatory framework will have an effect. It will not enter into force until 15 April 2018. The investigation always weighed the risk of the judgments that have been left with politics being brought to court. If that were the case – that we made a regulatory framework that was so legal and so severe that the courts would deal with it – then individual companies in court could also appeal decisions made by politicians about a right to export in different countries. I believe, Mr President, that it could have had a direct negative effect on export controls. Many speakers have considered that industry is important for Swedish security. I am prepared to agree in part with these statements. But I believe, Mr President, that industry is not just a reflection of our military defence needs. The existence of industry certainly also affects our experience needs in defence and in politics. I would like to warn against too simplistic conclusions on this point. As I said, Mr President, the Liberals do not have any claims today.
i-G1qSLo8ytcU6t78sMxmmAc	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government set up a parliamentary inquiry to tighten up the export control of military equipment. The work went on for three years, and in June 2015, the investigation presented legislative proposals that were due to enter into force in April 2016. Now we are standing here, almost two years after the deadline, to debate the bill Strengthened export control of armaments. So, did it turn out the way we had in mind? We Christian Democrats are, of course, not satisfied with the fact that the proposal has been long drawn, and in part we would also have liked to see tougher wordings. However, today's decision is important, and we believe that the proposal represents an important strengthening of arms exports. We will vote in favour, and I hereby support the committee's proposal in the report. Sweden needs a strong defence industry. Through participation in international cooperation in the field of defence equipment, Sweden secures long-term security and defence policy interests. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that trade in defence equipment with certain countries is important and also defensible. Exporting and importing war material is part of Swedish defence policy. This presupposes, however, that there are clear rules for who can be the buyer of the equipment we sell. That is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, trade clashes with the values that form the cornerstones of our society. The government often describes Sweden as a humanitarian power – a country that works to save lives. The Swedish government also takes a stand for human rights, freedom and democracy. But if you are to call yourself a feminist voice in the world with credibility and a humanitarian power, you cannot at the same time arm women's oppressive regimes. One cannot claim to stand up for democracy and human rights and, at the same time, export arms to the world's worst dictatorships. Since 2001, the Christian Democrats have taken a clear stand in our programme of principles to introduce a democracy criterion in the export control of armaments. For the Christian Democrats, three issues were in focus during the process of the so-called KEX investigation: the democracy criterion, the question of consequential deliveries and the issue of openness and transparency in particular as regards the work and positions of the Export Control Council, the EKR. The bill contains important statements that the democratic status of the recipient country is to be a central condition when the export of armaments is allowed. The worse the democratic status, the less room should be for permission to be given. In the event of serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious deficiencies in the democratic status of the recipient country, it constitutes an obstacle to authorisation for the export of war material or to other international cooperation related to war material. The authorisation testing shall also take into account whether exports counteract sustainable development in the country of destination. Unless this legislation creates a central obstacle to democracy, changes will have to be made. This is made clear in the Christian Democrats' special opinion on the report. The Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for more transparency and transparency in arms exports. It is good that alternates are now included in the EKR and that the questions are raised to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs at regular intervals. This increases transparency, but we would have liked to see the work of the ECR opened up even more so that, after a certain period of time, Members could tell us how they have set themselves to export to certain countries – this in order to give citizens the opportunity to demand responsibility from those who have taken the decisions. Mr President, I would like to On the radio show Good morning, the world! A few days ago, a representative of the defence industry was asked whether they were not looking at ethical or moral parameters at all. He replied: No, why should we? On the other hand, we politicians can never ever question why we should consider ethical or moral parameters. The new proposal makes this clearer. Further decisions will also be submitted to the Government for review. It is there that the will of political representatives will determine what enhanced control will mean in practice. It is about the will to take ethical and moral parameters into account. We Christian Democrats have that will.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-153	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to express my thanks for a good and enlightening debate this morning. I would also like to express my thanks to the committee for the benevolent treatment of the proposal. However, the great thanks should of course go to the six parties which, after many discussions and considerations in the investigation into the rules on arms exports, managed to agree on the proposals and changes on which the bill is based. The investigation was led by Hans Wallmark in a very meritorious way, as I have heard. I would therefore like to thank you in particular, Mr Hans, for your constructive way of helping to keep this process together in every way very complicated. You have done so in such a way that we can now go to the end of complicated legislation. Everyone knows that this is a difficult issue. There are strong ideological tensions, well-motivated and legitimate positions, strong defence and security interests, strong foreign policy interests and strong industrial interests. On top of that, there is a fact that must also be taken into account, namely that there is a great deal at stake. In the end, these questions are about war and peace, life and death. Sweden is a country which, in any case for the last 200 years, dare I say, has striven for peace and relaxation. Is that compatible with weapons production? Is that consistent with exporting war material? These questions are often raised in the debate. Is Sweden's position and policy in this area compatible with arms production? It depends entirely on your basic attitude. For a pacifist, it is probably two completely incompatible positions to strive for peace and then at the same time to allow the production and sale of weapons, because, at least as I understand it, we want to disarm at all times and thus, by extension, abolish military defence. Then you can't make weapons at the same time. I think that position is honourable, but I do not share it. It is simply unrealistic because it only works if everyone on the planet thinks and acts in much the same way. It has never happened, nor will it ever happen. As soon as there is any country in the world that shows an interest in invading another country, the states in the immediate region will need a military defence, and then they will need weapons. My point of departure is rather that all countries have the right to defend themselves against attacks and indeed also an obligation towards other countries in the region to do so. Otherwise, the field is left completely open to any aggressive attacker. If it has been said that all countries have the right to a defence, it has also been said that they have the right to produce weapons. This also applies, of course, to a country like Sweden. We have a long tradition of armaments production. That, in turn, goes hand in hand with our history of alliance freedom over the past few decades. It is clear that there are strong defence and security reasons for their own weapons production. It's enough to look at the Air Force. If we didn't make JAS, where would we buy airplanes from? Would we buy them from the United States or from Russia? Would we like to commit ourselves to one of these countries? I believe that none of these options is particularly attractive, especially in view of recent developments. If, then, there comes another country, such as Brazil, which wants to buy the JAS from us to defend its borders against an attacker in exactly the same way that we think we need to do and they want to buy from us, on the one hand, because they know it's a damn good aircraft, and on the other hand because they don't want to tie up with the United States or Russia either – is there any sustainable argument for us to say no? It does not, in my view, do so, especially because we also know that we would never be able to finance the development of such an aircraft if we do not also have an export. So, in my view, there is no contradiction in principle between seeking peace and stability and also having an armaments industry. Moreover, if you are a strong supporter of the freedom of alliance, it becomes even more important that there is a Swedish defence industry that gives us, in my opinion, much greater independence. Rather, this argument has been reinforced by the growing international uncertainty of recent years. I heard earlier in the debate that the Swedish Democrats claimed that the Swedish armaments industry is in danger. I think Björn Söder expressed this as a critical situation for the Swedish defence industry. That statement is completely out of the air, I would say. It is enough to look at the export revenue in recent years for the armaments industry in Sweden to see that it is wrong. Last year, revenue was 11 billion. The year before, 2016, they were also around 11 billion, and it was even a small increase of 2 percent. In 2012 it was 10 billion, in 2013 it was 12 billion, then it was a small decrease and then it was again at around 11 billion. There is no drama either in terms of increasing or reducing these revenues, nor is there any evidence to support the claim that this would be a critical situation for the Swedish defence industry. Our position is based on the fact that there is no conflict of principle between these two positions. But it may well be, and it depends entirely on what the export rules are and what kind of business you allow. This contradiction and this question have been taken very seriously in Sweden all these years. On the contrary, we have taken them seriously and have drawn up rules in which every business is examined very carefully. As has been pointed out a number of times during this debate, Sweden has one of the world's most stringent regulations on arms exports. As a matter of principle, weapons exported from Sweden shall not contribute to the deterioration of the international or regional security situation. As a matter of principle, we do not export to countries which, for example, wage war against other countries or which pose international or regional threats. At the same time, it is always complicated that conditions are changing because a country that has previously been peaceful and democratic can suddenly change quite dramatically. Then we must also address this issue, particularly as regards the question of the supply of follow-up supplies. These are, therefore, rather difficult and sometimes delicate balances which the responsible authority ISP has to deal with together with the party-politically-composed Export Control Council. With this bill, one of the world's strictest regulations now becomes even stricter. As the first country in the world, we are facing a particular democracy criterion in the trial. The worse the democratic status of a country, the less room there is to grant export licences. This is an essential tightening up of the regulatory framework, I would say. It will be more difficult to export to non-democratic countries. Is that impossible? No. If there are strong Swedish defence and security policy reasons for implementing a deal, it can be granted, but it requires such a very delicate examination. Nevertheless, if you look at the whole picture, it is a tightening up of the regulatory framework in a way that no other country actually has. Why are we doing this? Well, we know that democracies very rarely wage wars against each other. Lack of democracy in itself is a factor to be put in the balance for security policy reasons. But we also believe that weapons are not just any commodity. Weapons can be used not only to defend one country but also to attack other countries and to maintain internal repression and simply protect the dictators. It is therefore time that we now have an explicit democracy criterion in relation to the test. In addition, we are further strengthening the criterion of human rights. If there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious shortcomings in the democratic status of the recipient, this constitutes an obstacle to export authorisations. Once again, it is an overall assessment to be made in which Swedish defence and security policy interests should be taken into account, but it is also a tightening up of the regulatory framework that must be noted. I heard that in the debate the Left Party was trying to spread the image that this does not include women's rights. It's completely wrong. Women's rights are human rights – can we not agree on that in principle? Of course, women's rights will also be a part of the test of this business. Don't spread any other image. What I would also like to highlight now is that with this bill we will have a post-control system. We have not had that systematic way before. Now ISP is tasked with designing such a system. It is simply a matter of ensuring that control is increased, so that we ensure even more that Swedish armaments really end up where it is said to end up and not in any other hands. In order for ISP to be able to fulfil this task and other new tasks, their funding has also been increased by almost 50 per cent from this year. Mr President, I would like to With this, Sweden will have a stronger and tighter arms export legislation. It is a well-balanced proposal. We can represent the decisions ethically and at the same time take responsibility for Swedish defence and security policy and for the long-term conditions of the Swedish defence industry. We do this through a broad cross-block agreement, just as it should be when we deal with these kinds of issues.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-181	Mr President, I would like to Duterte, who has been president of the Philippines since June 2016, promised in the electoral movement to kill hundreds of thousands of criminals and dump the bodies in Manila Bay. Police and vigilantes are reported to have shot tens of thousands of suspected criminals since he came to power. Duterte has compared himself to Hitler and has said that he would gladly slaughter three million drug addicts. At the same time, the opposition is under threat. Among other things, opposition leader Leila de Lima has been threatened to life and has been forced to resign as chairman of the Human Rights Commission. Mr Dutertes's recent steps are not unexpected in restricting the freedom of the press for the media who criticise him. On Wednesday 7 November 2016, the Swedish government opened a new embassy in the island kingdom. It is a good way to create political and extra-parliamentary contacts and influence the country in a positive direction. But the same week, the weapons manufacturer Saab opened a new office in the same district in Manila. And when Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg visited the Philippines, Saab was one of the companies that was part of the delegation. Saab also has a new press manager: Mikael Damberg's former press secretary. The Philippines wants to buy 12 new fighter planes by 2028. This is a multibillion dollar deal that many weapons manufacturers are competing for. Saab is one of them. Saab also markets a wide range of weapons systems in the Philippines. And Sweden's ambassador has in Filipino media highlighted the opportunity for Saab to sell submarines to the country. My question to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson is: Is Sweden able to get as much exports as possible before the amendment comes into force, or will Sweden actually be able to continue exporting war material to the Philippines after the amendment of the law?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-186	Mr President, I would like to I am not speaking about individual countries. It is the ISP that makes the assessment of which business is to be allowed or not, and this is done in the light of existing legislation. The current legislation is now in force. However, as of 15 April, there will be a new legislative framework in which we will tighten up the criteria for human rights. It will be more difficult to export to countries that seriously violate human rights. That is the meaning of this legislation, which I now understand is that the Left Party is out of the question. So the answer to Yasmine Posio Nilsson's question is that, from the entry into force of this legislation, it will be more difficult to export to countries that seriously violate human rights.
i-FYjeHpqUWA3GoT8j1qGYJV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson! However, the fact that companies, such as Saab, conduct strong marketing in the Philippines indicates that they expect that the amended law will not prevent the export of war material to Duterte, for example. We wonder how you view this. Even if you cannot comment on individual countries, you can express yourself on what it might look like. We are against this law because we believe it too weak. That's why we don't support it. I would also like to highlight the feminist perspective. As you mentioned, in my speech I pointed out that we in the Left Party are often cheering on when the government conducts feminist foreign policy. But the feminist perspective shines with its absence in the policy of exporting armaments. This is evident in the lists of what, according to practice, should be perceived as serious violations of human rights. Crimes against women's rights are not mentioned. The list of human rights violations carried out in the Dutertes Philippines can be extended. In his fight against the rebels, he also recently made a statement to his army: It is a new order from the Major. We're not gonna kill you. We'll shoot you in the vagina. He went on to say that women without vaginas are useless. Obviously, crimes against women have not prevented Sweden from marketing itself in the Philippines. In what way, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, will the new law prevent Sweden from exporting arms to countries that have no misgivings whatsoever about women's rights?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-194	Mr President, I would like to The new law addresses that particular issue. It says that if there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious shortcomings in the recipient's democratic status, it constitutes an obstacle to export authorisations. That is exactly what the new law says. Yasmine Posio Nilsson is trying to say that we do not respect women's rights. It's completely out of the air. We still agree that women's rights are human rights, don't we? So it goes without saying that it will also be included in the test. Don't try to spread another picture, Yasmine Posio Nilsson! The Left Party is out of this legislation because, as you say, it is too weak. I don't think you should be so modest. You want to go further. It is stated in your programme that you want to abolish arms exports completely, to everyone, regardless of which countries we are talking about. It's on your party program, isn't it? Everyone understands that abolishing arms exports would make it very difficult to cope with Sweden's own defence and security policy interests. For example, we could not have such an air force as we do today if we do not want to buy aircraft from Russia or the United States. That is the problem of the Left Party; you do not understand that there may be such conflict of objectives. We already have legislation that is strict on arms exports. Now it becomes even stricter. And as the first country in the world, we are introducing a particular democracy criterion. We are also tightening up the human rights test. I think we will have a good and well-balanced order. At the same time, the legislation takes into account our long-term defence and security interests. With regard to human rights violations and a great deal of what is happening in the Philippines, we probably have exactly the same attitude. In that part, I don't think we have any differences of opinion at all.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-202	Mr President, I would like to The Government says that Swedish exports increased. That's right. In 2016, it increased by 45 per cent from the previous year. But this is mainly explained by the delivery of larger systems. Not least the Gripen affair with Brazil is part of the explanation. The government is attacking me when I say the situation is critical. In conversations I have had with various Swedish defence companies, they say that the KEX investigation and only the discussion that we have now, and that we have had in recent years, have led to negative consequences for Swedish defence companies and exports. Presuming purchaser countries are uncertain whether it is possible to rely on Swedish exports in the future. I don't know what discussions Morgan Johansson has had with Swedish defence companies. But at least that's what's come out of the conversations I've had. Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have previously been a guarantor of Swedish industry, including the Swedish defence industry. At least that's how I got it. But I think that the government colleges of the Green Party, which have a pacifist point of departure, have been left with a great impression in this bill. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask about the PGU, the policy of global development. This should be a criterion when Sweden should make an assessment of whether a potential buyer country has the resources to buy Swedish defence equipment. I want the Government to develop how it should be done, in concrete terms, when we are going to make such assessments.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-207	Mr President, I would like to A few years in politics have taught me to sit down and talk to all the different interests. At the same time, one must form one's own opinion. The power of the various arguments put forward must also be evaluated. Björn Söder now says that the situation is critical for the Swedish defence industry. Then I would just like to point out that it does not, in any case, indicate the export revenue, rather the opposite. Revenues have been at the level of 10 – 12 billion per year since 2012, with a dip, but then it turned back to about the same level. That is not at all the picture you get when you look at the objective criteria. One must also form one's own opinion. You can't just buy pictures of different interests up and down. It is your role as a politician to sometimes make your own values of things. Then I cannot help but mention that the Swedish Democrats are calling for rejection of the whole bill. At least that's what you said earlier, and in that case you would have been against the democracy criterion and everything. You are welcome to clarify this in the next line. But in the last line you said that this bill would somehow be an outflow of some kind of pacifist environmental party attitude. That too is totally caught out of the air. Oh, my God, all the alliance parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Green Party are behind this product! To then create a picture of not taking responsibility for the country's defence and security policy or for the defence industry is completely wrong. We would never enter such a path.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-212	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by clarifying my motion, even if the President had understood it correctly. I call for the proposal to be rejected in the parts to which our reservation relates, i.e. the guidelines and the PGU. There were more people who understood it wrong than the Government, so to be clear, I am in favour of reservation 1 and nothing else. The figures that Morgan Johansson mentions here that exports are increasing or at a stable level are valid in 2016. Now the Government itself is in the government and may have current figures for 2017, but they have not yet been notified to the Riksdag. After all, what the defence companies are witnessing are consequences that will only show up next year or next year. But the defence companies have testified that there are negative consequences of the discussion that has taken place. When the defence companies negotiate with prospective buyers, buyers say that they are unsure whether they can rely on Swedish exports in the future. Now we are tightening up the rules further and introducing criteria that are very diffuse and flukey, such as the PGU criterion. We already have the second most stringent legislation in the world in this area. Wouldn't it be better if the Swedish Government, the Riksdag and everyone else worked to ensure that other countries caught up with Sweden in this area and lived up to the same high standards? In a global perspective, it does not matter if we meet the Left Party and completely scrap the Swedish defence industry and export of Swedish defence equipment. The defence industry is directly dependent on exports. If we stop all of this, it would make no difference at all in a global perspective. It's about the same idea you have in the climate debate. Wouldn't it be better if we worked to ensure that other countries caught up with Sweden instead of continuing to put sticks in the wheels for ourselves?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-217	Mr President, I would like to At least then we passed the Swedish Democrats' request, that it is a question of reservation 1. I will not criticise them further on this issue. The export figure for 2017 came the other day. It was around 11 billion, and it was up from 2016 to 2017 by 2 per cent. As I said, from 2012 onwards, exports have been around 10 to 12 billion. I see no sign at all that there would be any drama in that development. Then Björn Söder asked if it would not be better to influence other countries. We will, of course, do the same. Our whole foreign policy is to try in various ways to promote peace, stability and, not least, women's rights, because we clearly say that we are in favour of a feminist foreign policy. We have a unique platform for this by now sitting on the UN Security Council, and we use that platform as much as possible. As far as arms exports are concerned, it should be borne in mind that the vast majority of the exports we grant go either to other EU countries or to our partner countries in general, such as Brazil, the United States and other countries. The part of Swedish exports where human rights and democracy can be questioned is very small. We believe that there are strong reasons for further tightening up that part by introducing the democracy criterion and the PGU. It is important to allow the PGU aspects to permeate the entire policy in this area as well.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-222	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy, for human rights, for women's rights and for peace and disarmament. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a voice in the world. However, if this is to be possible, we cannot continue to arm countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. These are countries where people cannot organise and express themselves freely, countries where oppositional and human rights defenders are in danger of being imprisoned, tortured and even sentenced to death, countries where women lack fundamental rights and are abused without anything happening, and countries which choose to buy weapons over combating poverty and investing in health care and education. Much of our credibility is lost when we sell arms to countries such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. These weapons are probably used to wage war in Yemen. It is a warfare that counts as war crimes by Amnesty International, among others, where schools, hospitals, markets and mosques have been attacked. Thousands of civilians have been killed and forced to flee. Every other child suffers from malnutrition, and many suffer from diseases due to the war. The situation in Yemen is described by the UN as a humanitarian disaster. It is shameful that Sweden is selling arms to the countries that bear the main responsibility for this terrible situation, which must be described as an excellent example of Swedish double standards. Swedish arms exports in their current bottling also run counter to the UN's Agenda 2030 development objective. In order for Sweden to be credible in its efforts to achieve the development goals, we need to correct the shortcomings in arms exports. It is true that the new legislative proposal is a tightening up which makes exports to countries with dubious democratic status or where human rights are being violated. However, there is still a lack of a criterion which explicitly prohibits Sweden from exporting war material to non-free countries and dictatorships. The Left Party wants to see a real stop to the export of armaments to dictatorships. That is why we call for democracy to be shaped as an unconditional obstacle. The KEX investigation represents a historic opportunity to settle a double standard in Swedish arms exports. Let's take advantage of that opportunity. I also think that there is much in the proposal put forward by the Church of Sweden to introduce a precautionary principle that puts people's right to protection and human security in focus. This means that if there is a risk that Swedish arms exports contribute to violations of human rights, this risk – rather than such a link has been demonstrated – should provide sufficient grounds for the refusal of authorisation. Although the Left Party believes that the Swedish regulations for the licensing of arms exports have certain shortcomings, there is in any case a regulatory framework for such exports. Imports of war material are all the less regulated. At the same time, imports involve both support for the armaments industry of the exporting country and the legitimisation of the country's regime. Examples include the import of weapons from Israel. Over the years, Sweden has imported Israeli military equipment for hundreds of millions. Recently FMV signed an agreement with Telefunken Racoms for the acquisition of a tactical terrestrial radio system. The value of the contract is approximately SEK 1.3 billion, and it all takes place through a German subsidiary owned by the Israeli company Elbit. The import of Israeli weapons means indirect support for the Israeli occupation. It continues its abuse of the Palestinian population through, among other things, the establishment of illegal settlements and the blockade of Gaza. The Government's directive to the KEX investigation lacks mandate to investigate how imports of war material should be made in accordance with the rules applicable to exports. The Left Party believes that this is a major flaw. The government should set up an investigation to review how imports of armaments are to take place in accordance with the export regulatory framework.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-233	Mr President, I would like to There is finally a proposal. I thank Mr Wallmark for his work and the government for the fact that there is a proposal to discuss here, for we have really needed that for a long time. Language changes a little when we're not selling weapons. You can call it a sharpening, but the truth is that for years many wise heads – many people I respect deeply – have struggled to formulate something that is a sharpening but at the same time allows business with the worst dictatorships on earth. We are talking about a democracy criterion. However, there is a loophole, and we agree that there is. Arms exports should be included in a broader security policy analysis. A broader concept of security takes into account factors such as health, home security, the absence of armed violence as well as the establishment of different forms of confidence-building measures in their cooperation abroad. Respect for human rights and security policy are not opposites. Respect for human rights everywhere in the world also leads to security for us. The same applies to democracy, sustainable development and peace. There are many obvious security policy interests not to export armaments. This is something that the proposal does not take sufficiently into account. The fact that our security policy assessment can benefit from creating instability in other countries is an illusion. The conflict is not about whether we should adopt a radical pacifist stance. The Green Party also has a total ban on arms exports in its party programme. The conflict today is about the compromise we should have: should we sell weapons to non-democrats to get a little discount on our own arms purchases? In many respects, it is all about this. But it'll be an expensive discount coupon. The price is paid in the form of human suffering, oppression of women and flows of refugees and, at the moment, also, in the case of Yemen, by thousands of children killed. Both global development policies and the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals are included in the proposal. However, vague wordings on human rights commitments are being weighed against what is considered to be speaking in favour of exports. This applies, for example, to the need to participate in international cooperation on materials or to retain competence or production capacity in the arms industry. Then the protection of human rights is easily compromised. There is such a risk. Kerstin Lundgren is right, of course, that we are talking about a broader definition of armaments. However, the division between weapons with effect fire and, for example, control systems, radar systems and fire systems gives a certain false sense of difference. Our security can never be based on the fact that we sell weapons to the United Arab Emirates, which guides bombers to targets in Yemen. According to the UN, 80 percent of these targets are affected by innocent women and children. It is little comfort, then, that the system we have sold only guided the weapons of others to their goal. If the data is correct, a 10-billion deal is underway in the United Arab Emirates to sell the next generation of this weapon system. Thus, the proportion of dictators in our arms exports risks increasing over the next few years because of this affair, if it is not stopped. Obama banned arms deals to the Philippines after President Duterte's mass-murdered drug addict, as the Left Party representative has described here in the debate. But both of these countries are part of the export strategy. Both of these countries are visited by the Minister for Trade, and both of these countries are investing Sweden to sell weapons systems to. Arms exports account for only 1 percent of our exports, but 10 percent of delegates from accompanying business representatives when the government carries out export promotion trips. These trips go to countries that seriously violate human rights. Mr President, I would like to When Sweden sells arms to a country, a legitimizing effect arises. When we arm countries that abuse their own population or the populations of others, the earth and our own security are reduced. This is not a dozen issue where the protection of human rights can be compromised. It is also detrimental to confidence in democracy when everyone says they are tightening up the rules and arms exports to dictatorships are hindered, but at the same time there is a loophole. I call on everyone in Parliament today to vote in favour of my or the Left Party's motion, which closes the loopholes in the law. The alternative is to build our military force on the blood of other people. Sweden's own weapons production once filled a function in the world during the Cold War. Today, however, we are dependent on the cooperation of others for virtually all weapons systems. On the contrary, we often buy ourselves on weapons systems that we manufacture ourselves; we buy so many fighter planes that we cannot afford to fly or update them. The Swedish weapons systems sometimes become gökungar that crowds out important defence needs. For example, the fighter aircraft we manufacture is about half dependent on components from the United States, Great Britain, Germany, France and South Africa. They can't even start the engine without foreign components or licenses. We are moving from a policy in which the defence industry served the needs of the country to the fact that the Armed Forces are increasingly being forced to serve the needs of the defence industry. It will be a logical hill change when you say that it is important for Sweden's weapons supply that we have our own weapons production. At the same time, we must have international arms cooperation. These arms cooperations depend on the fact that we sell arms to countries with serious shortcomings in democratic governance – because our partners want this. We cannot at the same time produce our own weapons because we depend on these cooperations. There are unconditional obstacles included in the law today, if the EU, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe or the UN have decided it. Already today there is a built-in conflict that some arms deals cannot be made if, for example, we have arms cooperation with the United States and if the EU but not the United States has a ban. If we were to tighten up our own legislation so that we have an unconditional ban on sales to certain countries with serious shortcomings in governance or the protection of human rights, it does not change the logic of the legislation. It only changes the dynamics of the protection of human rights. I have met several people who work in the arms industry, and it is often very capable people with knowledge of material technology, control and control systems, advanced data processing and so on. They can be of great benefit to Sweden and our financial security. In an English evaluation of what happens if you halve arms exports, it is shown that more jobs are actually created. Wages are slightly lower, but jobs are getting more. It would be good for Sweden if we had jobs where these people are properly put in the service of security by stopping the earth's climate problems. In addition, arms exports degenerate a society in general. 40% of the world's bribes are linked to arms exports. It is even worse if exports go to dictatorships. Many here in Parliament talk about the importance of broad unity and stability. That's true; that's how we usually look at this. But it does not stand if stability rests on the instability of other countries so that a dictator or oppressor can suddenly bring Swedish weapons into the hands and reduce the stability and security of that country's population. I would rather have a narrower majority with those parties in parliament who are in favour of a proper ban on exports to dictatorships. We have a majority: the Left, the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. We have a majority – if we dare. Our members have said so. Not everything's up for judgment. An assessment between two sides cannot always be made. There are certain absolute human values that cannot be violated. I think we should put it in the text of the law. That is why I support my motion. Now the government will interpret the rules. Then we can immediately stop taking the arms industry on export promotion trips to countries with serious shortcomings in the democratic system. We can stop promoting arms cooperation with such countries and refrain from accepting new permits for such countries. With the new law, we can make an interpretation that works. If the ISP approves of business to these countries, the government can mark: No, we take more seriously than you take on the requirements of the new legal text– they are an obstacle to arms exports in those cases.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-253	Mr President, I would like to It is not only immoral, but also bad security policy to arm perpetrators and oppressors. In addition to the moral aspects that have already been discussed in detail, I would like to mention a perhaps less obvious but important problem with arms exports. It can be said, without exaggerating, that war is overfunded and peace underfunded and that industry in the service of death is oversized, while industry in the service of life is undersized. There is a lot of time, professionalism and creativity, and of course a lot of money and raw materials that are wasted and tied up in constantly producing new deadly weapons. These resources and people need to be freed. There are already far too many weapons in the world. They need to get fewer, not more. Disarmament is needed instead of armament, both of nuclear weapons and of conventional weapons. That's the way forward. In this situation, it is both immoral and security policy counterproductive to waste huge resources on new expensive weapons, products whose best use is – none at all. So we are not building with more weapons, but with completely different means, really sustainable security for people. What are the major threats to people's security, in addition to those purely military? It is climate change, water scarcity, inadequate food supply, economic inequality and poverty, to take some of the worst. Military threats need to be better prevented and handled with diplomacy. Confidence-building measures and better conditions for people reduce the risk of conflict. Solar panels instead of mines, water purification instead of rifles, trains instead of fighter planes, school books instead of bombs, teachers and nurses instead of soldiers and weaponssmiths—that's good security policy. Mr President, I would like to Does responsible arms exports mean that engineers and workshop workers in Sweden become idle? Some people have been into it. Or is it possible to change the war industry so that it works in the service of life rather than in the service of death? Yes, it is. Let me give some interesting historical examples! After the Japanese attack on the American naval base Pearl Harbor in 1941, the U.S. quickly changed the whole of society, especially its industry. In just a few months, huge numbers of fighter planes and weapons of all kinds were built to enter World War II. Now we need to do exactly the opposite and make a massive and rapid transition from military to civil production. The needs are enormous. Here Sweden can go ahead and show the way. But, of course, a clear law is needed that unequivocally prevents the export of war material to countries that should not be armed. We could have a much smaller arms industry. Mr President, I would like to The Lucas Plan is another important example that shows what is possible if only the will exists. Lucas Aerospace was a British company that produced a lot of different products. About half of the production was military. This was in the mid-70s. Suddenly, thousands of staff faced the threat of losing their jobs when orders went down. At that time, a group of employees of the company, both officials and workers, came together and worked out a detailed plan for how the company could produce – as they put it – socially useful products instead of military products. The work took over a year and resulted in over 1,000 pages of proposals. It was about developing new products in renewable energy, for example, but also about increasing the production of things that Lucas already produced, such as dialysis machines. As one of the leaders in this group said: It is not decent and reasonable for people to die waiting for dialysis when we could produce more dialysis machines. This is also relevant here in Sweden, I think. In total, about 150 new products were produced. Many were in the absolute technical forefront. These included, for example, vehicle batteries, wind power, solar cells and medical technology. Had Lucas – and the British government, which was a major client – chosen to listen to the employees, they would have pioneered in a lot of future areas, such as environmental technology, and had good chances of flourishing. Unfortunately, however, it was not done this time, and the company was not doing so well either. The conversion plan nevertheless received a lot of attention, and we have every reason to be inspired by it again. Think of the creativity that could be unleashed if those who work in the Swedish arms industry were instead commissioned to produce socially useful products on a large scale, or for that matter if they took matters into their own hands, like their colleagues at Lucas Aerospace! Perhaps one of them is listening to this debate. Mr President, I would like to Let me mention an interesting calculation example from Lester R. Brown, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and Earth Policy Institute, coined the concept of sustainable development in the 80s. In 2008, he estimated that about 13 percent of the world's military spending would be sufficient to deal forcefully with mankind's fundamental destiny. He lists social objectives such as education for all, maternal and child care in the poorest countries and basic health care for all. He also refers to the restoration of the soil, such as the protection of the soil, the restoration of fish stocks and pastures to the extent possible, and action against climate change, to name but a few. That would be a good security policy. By all means, the figures have probably changed in ten years since Lester R. Brown counted, but the basic principle is the same. We in Sweden certainly cannot change the whole world, but we have a responsibility to do our part. The Parliament represents the citizens, not just those who have interests in the arms industry. We also have a responsibility for people in other countries. Sometimes hypocrisy becomes too absurd. Why should ministers promote the sale of the fighter aircraft Gripen to a country such as Botswana, which allegedly is not clearly under military threat but where many are poor and where there is a great need to build well-being and infrastructure? It is a country whose political opposition and others appeal to us not to try to sell fighter planes to the rulers. It's just one example. What if we could instead send ministers promoting the sale to Botswana of energy technology, water purification and the like? That would be something! If there are loopholes in the legislation, they will be exploited. Arms exports are no exception. The war industry is a powerful special interest. There is a lot of money in the arms trade, as several have pointed out here today. Whether it is authorities or a government that has authorised exports to someone who should not have the weapons, it is as bad for them as the weapons are aimed at. Therefore, it is not enough to rely on benevolent political judgements when it comes to life and death issues. The loopholes in the legislation must be plugged. Extensive and serious violations and a lack of democracy shall be unconditional obstacles to the export of armaments. I therefore support motion 2017/ 18:3923 by Carl Schlyter and others. Sweden is, as I said, a major arms exporter. As a result, we have a heavy responsibility to switch the industry to exports of products that make the world safer for real. We Swedish MPs have the responsibility and power to vote for Sweden to finally stop exporting arms to dictators and oppressors. Take your responsibility today and vote in favour of a ban!
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-267	Madam President, listeners and especially my grandson Noah, who is sitting up in the gallery today and is here on the sport holiday to learn about democracy in the Swedish Parliament! We are now going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report 17, which deals with certain proposals on personal assistance. Over the past year we have been able to read media reports about missing assistance, and there are many with me who receive a number of emails and text messages about these issues on a daily basis. I am deeply touched by all the stories and conversations with people who need personal assistance and who struggle and toil every day. They want nothing more than to live as independent a life as possible. Their relatives want nothing more than their daughters and sons, mothers and fathers, to be able to live their lives in security and dignity. The Moderate line is clear. First of all, the purpose of LSS and personal assistance is for people to be able to live independent lives – and we protect that. Assistance reform is a deeply sympathetic and central reform of freedom. We are proud that we were in the bourgeois government between 1991 and 1994 who together carried it out. However, the new case law has created concerns among people with disabilities and their relatives. It is a concern that we very much understand. Secondly, some of the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court in recent years have raised concerns among people in need of personal assistance and their relatives. The Government's current proposals imply minor adjustments to a system characterised by continued shared headship. This system needs to be reviewed in its entirety. Thirdly, it is important that the frozen two-year review procedures constitute a temporary measure and a legislative exception. There must be functioning systems to ensure that the right compensation goes to the right individual. The Social Insurance Agency points out in its referral that the amendment of the law has a negative effect on this possibility, which is serious. Fourthly, cheating, fraud and abuse of benefits undermine the system. This mainly affects those most in need of support. To this end, increased and more systematic supervision and follow-up of the application and impact of the overall assistance legislation are required. In the light of the measures currently proposed, the government should also take specific measures to curb undue payments resulting from the legislative changes. The application of the proposed rules should be closely monitored and more monitoring and follow-up is needed. Fifthly, it is absolutely crucial that more people get into work and that more companies start and grow strong in order to provide long-term and sustainable conditions for secure and well-functioning personal assistance and all other welfare in Sweden. More people in work and more strong companies strengthen the possibilities for LSS and personal assistance to be ensured in the long term. Sixthly: At the same time, the LSS investigation is continuing in order, among other things, to create long-term sustainable economic development and to make the efforts within LSS more effective. We Moderates believe that it is important to have a holistic approach and a long-term responsibility and that it is good that the issue is thoroughly investigated. Seventhly, all fraud with subsidies and taxes is deeply problematic. That is something we are investing resources in fighting. Both within LSS and in other welfare systems, there is a need for sharper monitoring and supervision. We allocate resources to this in our budget. All undiscovered cheating is lost tax crowns. These are resources that could have been used to develop the welfare of all those in need of assistance, care and care. It is directly offensive that people who are less accurate should wear their shoes on the legitimate needs of others for support and help. That can't be allowed to continue. The resources should go to those who are entitled to community support. Those with personal assistance should receive the help they need and are entitled to. Nothing else is good enough. At the same time, support should be long-term and sustainable. Economically balanced responsibility is necessary. Finally, it is essential to strive for long-term sustainability and sustainability in the area of assistance reform. Around issues and decisions related to LSS and personal assistance, we need common solutions, holistic approaches and balanced balances aimed at long-term, transparency and sustainability for the individual in need of personal assistance. This also applies in order to provide greater security and predictability for all relatives, all assistance providers and the responsible authorities of the State and the municipality. Madam President, I would like Let us jointly ensure long-term, responsibility and sustainability for those who really need it most – people with needs and the right to personal assistance. I commend the Moderates' reservation No 5.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-279	Madam President, I would like I will be relatively brief despite the fact that there is a great deal to be said about assistance and LSS. I could talk about how wrong I think it is with the government's dismantling of the LSS. I could also talk about the judgments that have fallen and affected so many people negatively. I could also choose to talk about the material leaked from the LSS investigation and how I think it is spectacular proposals that contain a significantly reduced level of assistance. Yeah, there's a lot I could talk about. But today I choose to stick to today's topic and the proposals we have on the table. These are changes to the Social Security Code and the LSS. Despite the current debate, I must nevertheless say that this is a step in the right direction. It is positive that the government now urgently chooses to review these laws. In particular, the two-year trial is temporarily frozen or removed and personal assistance can be granted for waiting time and preparedness. These are important changes that affect many people and that there is a consensus to make. As far as the two-year trials are concerned, I have been debating and exercising for a long time in favour of change. My main argument for this has been that the re-evaluations are being carried out in order to change needs. My argument has been that this is not always the case. There are people whose condition unfortunately does not change. For these people, the system should be reviewed and an exception should be made for them. As I said, these revisions are certainly being stopped, but I believe that the system must be reviewed in the long term, how it can be changed and how it can be simplified. Therefore, the government should provide an additional directive to the LSS investigation on this particular issue. Madam President, I would like Although we choose to support the proposals that the government has now presented, I am somewhat disappointed and surprised that at this stage there has been no change in assistance and self-care. After the Supreme Administrative Court judgment, the practice has become that the Social Insurance Agency no longer has to pay assistance allowance to children in need of advanced care at home, such as children who have difficulty breathing or who need help with feeding. I do not think it is reasonable that nutrition and breathing should not be considered as basic needs. That is why I am in favour of reservations 1 and 4. Both of the proposals I have been talking about – it concerns two-year review and self-care – could have been approved if we had had a united alliance, but unfortunately the Moderates at this stage have chosen not to support these proposals. That is why there is no majority in favour of this either. But shame the one who surrenders. I and the Swedish Democrats will continue to fight for these issues. We will of course follow with interest what the government is doing in the future, not least based on the LSS investigation and the work material that has leaked when it comes to self-care. We have this debate today because we want to improve together for people with personal assistance. I will retain that will whether it is for people under the age of 12 or for people over the age of 80. With regard to the material that has been leaked from the investigation, I can say that there is not much there that I can currently support. I hope that the government will put it where it belongs; at present, I think it is in the trash.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-289	Madam President, I would like I have to start by saying that I find it tragic that we must repeatedly have these debates in the Swedish Parliament on assistance compensation and LSS – because all these debates have been caused by deteriorations and by our attempts to stop those deteriorations. This is one of the most amazing welfare reforms we have. It was launched by an alliance government in the early 1990s, and it has enabled people with severe disabilities to have a decent life. For a few years now, we have seen this amazing reform gradually being dismantled. It's not a coincidence that it happens. Both the Green Party and the Social Democrats are trying to blame for the fact that this is a matter of authorities doing wrong or of courts that have done wrong, but that is not true. The reason why there are currently 1,200 fewer people with personal assistance than in 2014 is a conscious government policy. In 2015, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson pointed out the state assistance as an area where savings would be made. There have since been deteriorations in four different areas. The first is a letter of regulation to the Social Insurance Agency, in which the Social Insurance Agency receives an order from the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government to have a restrictive application. The second is an investigation directive. A government investigation has been set up with the clear aim of making savings in the state assistance compensation. Thirdly, there are a number of judgments from the Supreme Administrative Court which have gone in a negative direction. A court in Sweden can make a decision that we politicians or the government feel like this: We did not expect the law to be applied. What a responsible government should do in that situation is immediately start legislative work to correct the legislation so that the authorities and courts continue to judge in the way that we politicians have intended. This government has chosen not to do so. The fourth is the start of a veritable crusade against private carers. We know that today more than 60% of the beneficiaries of assistance have chosen private operators. These are now portraying the government, supported by the Left Party, as major villains in this context – if you carry out a profit-making activity, it is probably because you actually steal money from taxpayers. This development has been clear on the part of the government. The result can be seen in the statistics from Försäkringskassan: There are 1,200 fewer people who currently have government assistance. Then it will be a mockery, I think, to read, as I did the other day, what was written from the Social Democratic propaganda machine on Sveavägen 68. It was written this way: When you as an individual are at the weakest, our community should be at its strongest. It is irony, Madam President, in view of all these people who have now had their lives ruined because they have lost state aid. They're in the deepest crisis. We even get reports that there has been suicide in connection with the suspension of assistance. What we are going to do today is take a position on a correction. As previous speakers have said, the government is now in some way trying to get away with this discussion pending the autumn elections. What you do is about the judgment that came this summer from the Supreme Administrative Court that the waiting time, when you as an aid beneficiary do not need your assistance, should not be counted. It would have had devastating consequences. The estimate is that more than 6 000 would have had their assistance considerably reduced. The government now chooses to present a bill that corrects that judgment. On behalf of the Center Party, I welcome it – it is good that the government is doing this. But then the question arises of a previous judgment on self-care, which has had even more severe consequences. It led me to a call from a father to a 29-year-old guy in Gävle. The guy is respirator-dependent and has now received a letter from the Social Insurance Agency stating: Now we will withdraw your assistance because it does not count as a basic need to breathe via ventilator. Then, of course, I have a question for the Green Party and the Social Democrats. You chose to make a correction based on the judgment last summer. Why, in the name of the Lord, did you not grasp the second, even more unreasonable, judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court? You have now shown that it is possible to make a correction based on a judgment. So why not solve the whole problem instead of putting these people in great anxiety? It is good that we in Parliament are correcting at least from one of the judges. That is why, of course, we in the Center Party will vote in favour of this, but we will also call for an announcement that the government must urgently return with corrections so that what all people think is reasonable, namely breathing and eating, is considered to be basic needs. The second thing we will decide here is the so-called two-year review. What the government is now doing is stopping the two-year trials so that no negative decisions can be made from now until the elections. But then you open up because it's just going back to the way it has been before. It's good to make a half stop here, but you should have gone all the way and looked over the unreasonable two-year trials. I'll never forget when I met an older parent. They had a son over 30 years of age who was born with a severe malformation syndrome. He basically couldn't do anything by himself. The poor parents would meet an official from Försäkringskassan once every two years and, among other things, answer the question: Have you had a grandchild? What a mockery for these parents! Once every two years, they knew that they would have to answer the question: Have you had a grandchild? So unreasonable is the two-year trial some times. That is why we from the Center Party, the Liberals and the KD have a motion to review it. This is a completely unreasonable way of working. Once again, it is tragic that we should have these debates in Parliament time and again in order to correct them on the basis of a fantastic welfare reform that is now to some extent collapsing. It collapses due to both active and passive government decisions. The two corrections that are now being made are positive. We will ask for their approval. But you should have changed and done the right thing right from the start. That is why I also support reservation 1 and reservation 4.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-305	Madam President, I would like The conflict that is now taking place about personal assistance is not a conflict about an operation just about anything. It is a conflict that is about your and my civil rights, a conflict based on our human views and on the right to live as free individuals – that no one should be able to take away from us the power to rule over our own lives. For me and for my party, the welfare society is a fantastic construction based on the realization that we should all have the same fundamental rights and obligations and that we should contribute to our society according to each other's ability to stand up for each other as needed. In solidarity with each other, we shall help to ensure that each and every one of us will have our fundamental rights respected. It is a system that not only guarantees me and those around me that there is a safety net when needed, but it is a system that makes us equal. Society that guarantees its citizens their rights is society that makes us see each other's equal value. That is precisely why what we see happening to personal assistance is tearing up something in the heart for us. What happens when assistance is broken is that these fundamental rights but also value t is taken away from us. Madam President, I would like The power to decide over one's life is not a small matter that concerns a few. It is an issue that concerns each of us in this country. But most of us never had to think about it. Most of us have never had to live our lives in an institution, never had the feeling of not being able to get out of bed when you want to or do your needs when you need to. Most of us have never experienced what it feels like not to be able to come out when the sun shines or what it feels like to be completely extradited to someone else without being able to make any demands – completely deprived of the opportunity to live as a free person. Before 1994, this was the harsh reality of thousands of people in this country. It was before Sweden decided to introduce one of the greatest freedom reforms of our time, the LSS, that we are debating here today. We locked people up because we had decided that their functionality was not enough to give them the right to decide over themselves. We had decided that their capacity was no more than to be put under lock and key. It is with a very bitter aftertaste, Madam President, that I think that this was a reality in my lifetime and part of our modern but very dark history created by political will. The introduction of the LSS and personal assistance is therefore a reform of freedom really worthy of the name, a reform that gave back people their value, a reform that, for those born after the introduction, made it self-evident to be able to live like everyone else. It is a law that guarantees you and me that, regardless of our functionality, our right to live and control our lives should be a matter of course – a foundation that in a democracy should never be questioned. But now it is. Today, the LSS reform is under very great threat, a threat created by political craftsmanship. Imagine that one day your opportunity to go to work, be with your family, or go out with your friends may be priced. One day every toilet visit that I make and every shower and all my meals can take place to the sound of a time clock and with a small note in the corner that I may be a criminal. One day you can be one of the 80 percent who do not get the right to assistance. In the worst of all worlds, the future debate in this House may be about whether your grandchild should have the right to play and have hobbies or just sit and scrap for herself or whether my mother's right to decide over her life should have an age limit. Not one of us is unmoved by what is happening with the assistance. But the threat that now rests upon the LSS is not something that happened by chance. Behind the terrible development we are witnessing at the moment is political action or lack of political action. With shadow curtains and magic tricks, two governments have successively turned our rights into a question of money – a question of what some people in our society are going to cost. But now, with the Social Democrats at the forefront, the reform is seriously threatened. Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party do not protect the LSS. We are fighting for it in solidarity with all those affected today, knowing that reform is for all of us. That is why the amendment proposed by the government here today is not enough for us, because even if we do not put the last nail in the coffin, the exact situation that we have seen escalate during the government's time in power remains. The law must be adjusted to take account of all the judgments that have been handed down. Otherwise, the threat to the LSS remains, and then it is the government that is responsible. We naturally support the committee's proposal, but we also call for the approval of reservation 3.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-317	Madam President, I would like In the bill that we are debating today, the Government proposes a legislative amendment to allow assistance also to be granted for waiting time and preparedness, and a temporary halt to the so-called two-year review. We Liberals accept these two proposals as a temporary solution in the now disastrous situation. But it does not take away the incredible pressure, anxiety and anxiety that all these persons entitled to assistance are forced to live with in anticipation. We Liberals, of course, stand up for every person who is saved from getting rid of their assistance, those who are saved to their lives and to their relative freedom. That is why we support today's proposal. But all judgments need to be taken care of and countered, and we believe that the two-year review in its current form needs to be permanently removed. Madam President, I would like What we are deciding today is far from enough. This means no improvement at all for the 1,200 or 1,400 people – we get some different reports – who have lost their assistance since 2015 and for the record number of people who have been turned down on their new application. Today, only one in ten gets a yes. The rest, nine out of ten, gets no. As several of the consultation bodies point out, the new rule that we are introducing today means that people who currently have assistance will be treated more favourably than people who have lost it or who apply for the first time. This, Madam President, is a discrimination that is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Personal assistance is a major reform of freedom, as all the previous speakers have said. It provides an opportunity to live like others. LSS actually means Living as Svensson, because that's what it's all about. But it has gradually been eroded. Since 2015, the Government has ordered cuts in personal assistance, and Försäkringskassan has delivered and cut down. It is not only individual aid beneficiaries who feel this in their skins every day. The country's municipalities also feel it every day as their responsibilities increase. A new review by the National Board of Health and Welfare shows that only between 2015 and 2016 was the gap of SEK 1 billion. Group homes and children's homes are planned at a rate that we have not seen since the time of noble and psychedere reforms. There is an institutionalisation of people today. This is indecent and totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like The Government claims that the explanation for the severe cuts is changed case law in the courts and thus in the Social Insurance Office. As a result, people who for several years, perhaps more or less their whole lives, have been considered to be eligible for assistance suddenly are not and have had the assistance withdrawn in whole or in part. However, there are strong reasons to oppose and question this description. Firstly, Madam President, the amended case law has not arisen in a vacuum, not by itself. The precedents have arisen when authorities, i.e. politically governed organisations, have chosen to push a tougher interpretation of the rules to the Supreme Administrative Court. It is not individuals and not the courts themselves who have done so. Secondly, the interpretation of the case law of the Social Insurance Agency has not arisen in a vacuum either. The clearest example is the so-called 2012 self-care judgment, which several speakers have mentioned. It started to be applied by Försäkringskassan 2016– not 2013, not 2014, not 2015, but 2016 – after the Government wrote in the regulatory letter: This differs significantly from what is normally the case in a regulatory letter. That is why I have also asked the Constitutional Committee to examine whether this is in accordance with the form of government. Thirdly, Madam President, the government argues that the ongoing LSS investigation should propose modernised legislation with a holistic approach. But with the directives that the investigation now has to comply with, that is not possible. I can't. It is explicitly stated in the directives that any proposals that will be made must be cheaper than today, and any pre-amendments to the various other LSS operations, other than personal assistance, must be funded by savings in personal assistance. In addition, savings may need to be made for fiscal reasons. You might need to cut more. Today a lot of election money is fattened out, so you might wonder who's going to pay. Now, as many people in this Chamber know, parts of the draft investigation have come to public attention. They show that the government has ordered cuts in the LSS investigation, and the investigator has taken the directives very seriously. The focus is on cuts for the most vulnerable, for children with extensive disabilities and for year-long care rather than living as independently as possible. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. For people with extensive neuropsychiatric problems – autism and multiple autism spectrum diagnosis – personal assistance is likely to be completely removed in order to refer instead to pure care interventions. Madam President, I would like In Facebook posts, the responsible minister, Åsa Regnér, tries to kill the critic, and in an interview Prime Minister Stefan Löfven also tries to dampen the harsh criticism of the government's handling of people: We have not changed the law at all, we must ensure that people who need it can live a free and independent life, it is a law of rights. ..................................................... What the Prime Minister says in the interview is not credible. It is a mockery of those who are affected every day, and that is ignoring one's own investigative directives. I really must ask the representatives of the government: have the two leaders of the government not read their own directives? What the government has ordered is now being delivered by the government. The investigation cannot, and must not, propose anything but powerful savings. If there are no additional directives that open up for development of LSS, Åsa Regnér and Stefan Löfven will have to answer too much. Madam President, I would like The demands of liberals are clear. The dismantling of personal assistance must be stopped now. The government must provide additional directives to the LSS investigation that specify how the law can be clarified, modernised and more widely available. We must get away from today's narrow interpretation. New directives must focus entirely on good living conditions, independence and participation of persons with disabilities, not on reduced costs.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-330	Madam President, I would like As many have said, today we are debating the Government proposal proposing amendments to the Social Security Code and the Act on Support and Service for Certain Disabled People – LSS. The Government proposes that the two-year review of the right to assistance allowance be removed. However, the possibility of review will remain in place due to substantially changed circumstances. It is also proposed that the right to personal assistance be granted for preparedness, waiting time and when an activity takes place outside the home. The Government's intention with the temporary stop is to mitigate the impact of the rapid change in practice that is now taking place in this area. With these sharp proposals, the government has eliminated a large part of the consequences that the case law has had for individual aid beneficiaries. The government has acted quickly and shows that we are vigorously protecting and protecting the LSS freedom reform. Several precedents from the Supreme Administrative Court have led to major changes in interpretations of fundamental needs. Several speakers have said that this has meant that many aid beneficiaries have been reduced or reduced from the state assistance compensation in particular. However, this summer's judgment would have had serious consequences in the sense that all the time between relief efforts would have been severely limited if the government had not acted. The Social Insurance Agency was quickly out and made it clear that their legal interpretation of the judgment would result in a rapidly changing and unpredictable situation for almost half of the people supported today. The basis for the whole legal legislation on support and service would virtually cease, which is completely unthinkable for a red-green government. Madam President, I would like For us, LSS is an important freedom reform that gives people with functional variations opportunities for full participation in society and equal living conditions. However, the fact that the law is hollow and allows for large legal interpretations is not new. As early as 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court established a different interpretation of how certain qualified actions would serve as a basis for basic needs. Since then, there have been new legal interpretations on an assembly line that have changed the law in large respects. Therefore, I can quite rightly say that the current investigation into LSS is absolutely necessary. At the same time, I would like to remind this House and its listeners of history. As early as 2012 – observe 2012 – the Social Security Inspection presented a report, Outcome of decision on state assistance compensation. That report notes that already in 2008, i.e. during the first term of the alliance government, an increased number of refusals are made in the area of personal assistance. In a motion from 2013/ 14, when the Social Democrats were then in opposition, it can be seen that, in 2012, in an announcement to the government, the Riksdag commissioned the government to find out how many had been affected and what had happened to those who had been severely reduced assistance. But no such accounting has been delivered by the government. The response of the previous alliance government shows that the criticisms which today are, above all, liberals, Christian Democrats and center parties are falling back on themselves. If it is the case that the present government could have acted in the past, it is even more so for the former government. It is the same concern and the same criticism that has been discussed for at least ten years. That is why, Madam President, I find it very surprising and sad to hear the statements that have been made in the debate today. It would be nice for some representatives to have some self-examination in their criticism. If we are serious about the LSS intentions remaining, then there is every possibility of a broad political settlement, because all parties are concerned about the LSS and its intentions and that this should be preserved. That is why I assume that when the report is presented in October, with the government then ruling the country, it is no problem to reach a broad agreement and, above all, to ensure that the people in need of support and help will get it. What has the government done so far to move forward, Madam President? Well, the investigation that I've reported has been set up. It's a broad, big investigation. Unfortunately, previous investigations – four or five in number – have ended up in the trash. It shows that this issue has been problematic for many years. The Government has also commissioned a number of reports to gain in-depth knowledge of the impact of the judgments on individuals affected by them and also of how municipalities and county councils in particular are affected. For example, Försäkringskassan's report Assistance compensation – Inflows, outflows and consequences of changed case law, which shows that changes in application have had a significant impact. The National Board of Health and Welfare has also analysed the consequences of the judgments and shown that they have led to limitations on the possibilities of providing support in the implementation of self-care via personal assistance, in particular through state funds. The National Board of Health and Welfare has looked at the status of the municipalities' support and the measures given to those who have lost support or received reduced support. The survey shows that most municipalities offer some form of assistance in the implementation of self-care measures. However, differences between municipalities are seen that can affect individuals' access. The government has also taken the initiative to bring out the facts regarding the cost development of the reform and incorrect payments. Personal assistance – Analysis of a quasi-market and its crime shows that since 2013, the number of private actors in the field has decreased. Today, the market is dominated by four major players. The reduction in the flat rate in recent years has reduced their profits. It can also be seen that profits are mainly due to lower wage costs for private organisers, which can be considered. The assistance market is today the most privatised welfare service in Sweden. The inspection of care and care has also been tasked with working specifically with the licensing and supervision of assistance providers. Finally, Madam President, only the current government has taken steps to make it possible to amend and clarify the legislation so that the intentions of the LSS are secured. I would like to emphasise once again that there is no secret agenda for the deterioration of the LSS. My speech clearly shows that today's situation is due to a process that started early in the time of the alliance government without adequate decisions being taken. Our ambition is to ensure that the money is used correctly and efficiently. This means that girls and boys, women and men in need of support and assistance should be guaranteed to receive it. It is the needs that govern, nothing else.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-348	Madam President, I would like Mikael Dahlqvist says that there is no hidden agenda. No, that agenda is not hidden – it is completely open to everyone who has listened to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who says that state assistance should be saved for all people with severe disabilities who have received their assistance withdrawn and the 1,200 fewer who today have the right to personal assistance. I think it is above all those people who today do not recognise the Social Democrats – the Social Democrats who have always talked about solidarity and who even write on Facebook that it is when you as an individual are at the weakest that our community should be at its strongest. Today, the 1,200 fewer people with state assistance have every reason to ask why the government can afford to subsidise electric bicycles and trade union fees, but that those who are respirator dependent at home should have their state assistance withdrawn. The question I would like to put to Mikael Dahlqvist, Madam President, concerns this balance. You are now going in and correcting the latest verdict from the Supreme Administrative Court. It's good that you do. But why do you not correct the second judgment, which has had even more unreasonable effects? If you had put forward proposals to correct that judgment as well so as to eat and breathe would be regarded as fundamental needs, you would clearly have received a majority here in Parliament behind such proposals. After all, it is only when the government makes proposals that we other parties can vote in favour of them, and so there can be legislative changes. But you did, and that is what I cannot understand, the conscious choice to make a proposal to correct the last of the judges and ignore the second latest – precisely because you saw the possibility of savings on government assistance in order to afford other things, including subsidising electric bicycles. That's what I'm thinking. What were you thinking?
i-DTySWmUrPaBzTs4wKeAvfm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders W Jonsson, for your question! Let's start with why we haven't dealt with the second sentence affecting the LSS. There are several reasons. One main reason is that that mission already exists in the ongoing LSS investigation, and the special investigator was extremely clear that it is part of her mandate to review the whole. Then you also know very well, Anders W Jonsson, what the legislation looked like. The purpose of LSS was not respiratory care or medical care. That was not the intention in 1994 even once. The problem, as I explained, has been pushed back and forth, even in your time. Then why didn't you do something when you were in the government? You were just investigating, and then you put the proposals in the trash. What we are trying to do now is to see, with the help of various reports and a serious investigation, how we make the whole legislation go together. Above all, we will ensure that all those who need help and support are eligible. Now it is very important that those who have been affected, which is terrible, get help. Most have thankfully received help from the municipalities or county councils, but now it is important that they take care of the need for help. Then the upcoming investigation will present how we make the legislation stick together and who will do what. After all, there is an essential difference between what it was like when the law was passed and what it looks like today.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-356	Madam President, I would like Once again, the Social Democrats are trying to evade their responsibilities. From 1994 onwards, eating and breathing have been viewed as basic needs. It was only in 2016, when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson ordered the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to start having a stricter application of the assistance decisions, it started to decide that the ventilator – i.e. breathing – is not a basic need. That was when they began to withdraw those decisions or reject those decisions and refer to this being solved by someone else in county councils or municipalities. That is what puts these people in a completely unreasonable situation, and it has been known since 2016. Why have you chosen not to correct that judgment, Mikael Dahlqvist? Now you have shown that it is possible to correct a judgment from the summer of 2017 that did not really start to get so much results. But you choose to ignore the judgment that has had far more serious consequences. That is where I cannot understand how you Social Democrats reason. You as a party say that you want to stand up for the weakest and talk about solidarity. Here it was about delivering concrete legislative proposals which, in fact, by 1 April could have changed the lives of those who are respirator-dependent so that they can be cared for and lead a normal life today. What were you thinking when you didn't make that decision? If you had started this in the Government Office this autumn, we would have together had a majority in the Riksdag who could have changed the lives of those who are now respirator-dependent and who are today at the mercy of a hope that the municipality and the county council might resolve it. It is you who are responsible, and you chose this decision. What were you thinking? Was solidarity no longer the key guiding principle of the Social Democrats?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-361	Madam President, I would like It is time to remind Anders W Jonsson of the story once again. Maybe you can go home and sit down and do some reading, because it seems like you need it. As early as 2009, the Supreme Administrative Court established that certain qualified, integrity-related actions cannot be considered as basic needs. Now I am not a lawyer, and I am sorry that this is going to be a legal debate, but we still have to understand what it says. It is clear in the legal text that certain basic needs that are close to integrity, personal and qualified are considered basic needs, but the court ruled that certain types of food intake, breathing and so on do not count. We may have many views on this, but it was already known in 2009. Why didn't you act during the years you were in government? When there is then a Social Democratic-led government, we are all of a sudden expected to correct all that you have slept through. The people who are most vulnerable and need support and help are greatly disturbed and frustrated. I can guarantee you, Anders, and the Center that we will ensure that they receive support and help. We are a party that still guarantees this and stands by it.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-364	Madam President, I would like First of all, I will correct an oversight from my main speech: I am in favour of reservations 1 and 4. Mikael Dahlqvist, it was interesting to listen. I asked the government representatives a question in my main speech. It was about the directives for the LSS investigation. As the comments now roll forward and you listen to Mikael Dahlqvist's speech, it seems that they have either not read or have not understood what is actually in the directives. This seems to me to be quite obvious. I am grateful if Mikael Dahlqvist could explain to me where the development potential of the directives stands. Does the investigation have the opportunity to come up with a development or clarification to give all the people who are entitled to personal assistance the opportunity to which Mikael Dahlqvist has just referred? It seems clear to me that the investigation does not have that possibility. It is only possible to make savings proposals. If you put forward development proposals in other areas, whether it concerns the nine different actions or if you add a new one, which you certainly have the opportunity to do, it is personal assistance that will pay for it. This is explicitly stated in the directives. I am very grateful if I could have a clarification.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for your question! I could start rhetorically and put a counter-question directly to you, Bengt Eliasson. It would read as follows: Where do the directives say that those who need support and help should not receive it? Just as absurd is your claim that we have narrowed down the directives so as not to give help and support to those who need it. Then it is not strange, but rather something that shows that the government takes responsibility for the economy and has the finances in order that it has directives on economic perseverance. It says in every investigation, Bengt Eliasson. You know that, too. So it's nothing unique to this investigation. Since this is a reform costing 30 billion, it is clear that we should ensure that that money is spent as efficiently as possible. But once the proposals are presented, I can guarantee you, Bengt Eliasson, that these very children, young and elderly affected by the reform will receive the efforts they need in a legally secure, modern and adequate way.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-372	Madam President, I would like The question remains, of course. Where in the directives can you read about this development that Mikael is now describing? Obviously, it should cost less, and only personal assistance should pay for this. There are two other issues which have also been raised in the debate and which require clarification. One is the issue of self-care. The second issue is the two-year review, on which we are also deciding today. This, with the two-year trials, is the short question. The government says very clearly that they will be restored as soon as possible. We heard Anders W Jonsson interpret this as the day after the election, about. I'm willing to agree with him on that. It is therefore intended to restore them as soon as possible, while at the same time beating the chest today for cancelling the two-year review. For me, this is very strange. You know that this is the pressure and the anxiety that is causing so many people. The second is about the judgment regarding self-care. Today, there are newborns who remain in hospital for many months because they need 24-hour monitoring to not stop breathing. There are parents who stop working to take care of their adult children who are still like children– they don't understand that electrical sockets and roads are dangerous. There are people with extensive mobility problems who stay at home alone in bed all day long. Their needs are no longer considered as the basis for personal assistance. Why, Mikael Dahlqvist, do you extradite these people to their fate, to the goodwill of municipalities and county councils, when today you have the opportunity to take another step?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-377	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson's first question concerns the end of the so-called two-year trial. I don't know where you, Bengt Eliasson, have got your interpretation from when you say that it will be restored as soon as possible. It says that the trial will be reviewed when a new bill comes. As a listener, you should feel safe and secure when it comes to LSS in the future. I've never heard such a united chamber before. All parties stand here and invite each other when it comes to giving the most to the LSS. The investigation will ensure that it will work and provide support and assistance to all those who need it. We have a political agreement. Neither you nor I know what will apply after the election and what government it will be then. It is likely that cross-block agreements will be required, which is a good thing. We need to look beyond the legal quirks, because I am absolutely sure that there will be a great reform in which we modernise the system and ensure that everyone gets help. Then we have this with self-care. I agree. I regret, and I am deeply touched by, the fact that children and young people in need of advanced care, support and help have been affected. At the same time, however, I must also stress that most people today are receiving the necessary assistance from another principal. If you look at the legal assessment, after all, it is not LSS who should stand for this. The important thing for us and the government is now to ensure that there are more agreements similar to the one that Region Uppsala has, so that we help these children and young people until we have found a solution and can crack the legal nut.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-382	Madam President, I would like For me it is not about who has done what in history, Mikael Dahlqvist, but for me it is about what problems we have here and now. It does so also for those who today do not have this support. I'm really surprised. You are talking about a broad agreement, Mikael, and we can certainly have one when the investigation is complete. Where is the broad agreement and broad consensus today? We have had these questions on the table now, such as self-care. The Social Democrats and the government, however, choose not to support it and choose not to address the problem. I'll give you the opportunity to answer the question again. What is the balance that has been struck? How have these priorities been chosen? You choose certain groups and correct the judges there, but when it comes to the judgment on self-care, you choose to refrain from making a correction. Instead, we should wait for the investigation.
i-4jHp9K3SeAM3sNy1zmoyrf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your question, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt! As far as the balances you ask for are concerned, the main reason why we put forward the proposal today is that the last judgment would have unimagined consequences. As the Social Insurance Agency clearly signalled, the whole reform, with the possibility of an active and participatory life, would be fundamentally disrupted. Around half of those who today have support and help would be affected. That's one of the reasons. The second reason is that this is a complex piece of legislation that concerns several different types of law. That is why we need to look at the issue calmly with the help of an investigation, which is being done today, in order to find solutions. Until then, surely, the most important thing for us – and it should be for all party representatives – is to ensure that the principals, i.e. municipalities and, above all, county councils, solve the problems for those who have received negative decisions or too little help and effort. The most important thing is that no one is left behind. I would like to ask you how SD will act to ensure this, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt. When I look at your budget motion for this year, I am not exactly safe. You are proposing quite large cuts in municipal and county councils. How, in turn, will it ensure that there is money left to provide care? I think that is an appropriate question, Madam President.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-388	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with something very unpolitical, namely to actually answer the question. First of all, in our draft budget, we are investing more in this area than the government does. Maybe we should be honest about saying that. Then we invest more in health care than the government does. Mikael Dahlqvist does not need to be worried at all. Just go in and read the right draft budget and not just listen to what you hear. In fact, we are investing more than the government is doing in both these areas. I'm going back to self-care. Yes, there are an enormous number of victims of the latest judgment. Is it most important how many people get hit or how hard they get? Has that balance been struck? It feels a bit like that, I have to say, like this in election times. It can easily take another two years before we get the right side of this judgment at all. We cannot think that it is not a basic need for people to breathe or eat, that is to say, to have their nutritional needs met. I don't think that's reasonable. Mikael Dahlqvist says that he can guarantee that those who most need help will also get it. You know what-- there's an opportunity to do it now. All you need to do is agree to reservation 4.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-392	Madam President, I would like We can always argue about your budget bill and how it beats, Carina. When I count on it and see all its parts, I do not really make your economy go together, but you draw quite far-reaching conclusions on what immigration and migration costs and so on. We are happy to discuss this later, but as a voter I would be extremely concerned if the county council or the municipality I live in were to be governed by your budget. This is not about a priority based on the size of the group, but it is only about an emergency stop because the consequences are too great. It is now the case that those who are within the framework of decisions today will have this until a new investigation has been carried out and a new legislative proposal is taken up here in Parliament. It is clear that those affected are affected, and it is important to ensure that they receive the appropriate assistance from municipalities and county councils in particular. Here we have at least three regions in Sweden today that have made an agreement and made sure that, for example, children and young people with a need for ventilators or PEG probes receive the support and help they need. Perhaps that is their primary responsibility as principals. We still have local self-government in this country, and this is part of the task. We really hope – and believe – that this will be good.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-396	Madam President, I would like We are not dealing with a secret agenda, but with what we have seen during the parliamentary term: a development that has been disastrous, with 1 200 people not having their rights met. I agree with you, Mikael Dahlqvist – we have been pushing for a change of law for almost ten years. It is absolutely true that the alliance government was with its arms crossed. That's why we put so much hope in you. I will say that when you came to power, I was absolutely convinced that you would make sure to change the law after all the judgments that fell. But that really wasn't what we got. You have gone even further than the previous government did. Now I suddenly stand here and walk in an arm hook with the other side. That's a lot to say, isn't it? We have had a regulatory letter saying that we want to reduce the number of hours. We have had an investigation in which they actually say that they want to cut back on assistance and that it is the assistance that will fund other efforts within the LSS. It is not going back to the basic intention of legislation. I really just have one simple question. I think it's a little too simple to stand and say, they didn't do anything. You had the chance! You have the chance! Now that you went in and changed for the last sentence, which had been the nail in the coffin for the reform, why did you do nothing? Why didn't you go back to 2009– the verdict might have come in 2007, but anyway – and made sure to adjust for all the judges? You're in power, Mikael.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-400	Madam President, I would like That's right; we're the ones who sit with government power – but we still don't have a majority in this House. Then perhaps it would be nice if you remembered that the Left Party is part of a budget collaboration with us, Maj Karlsson. In fact, you have the opportunity to influence the negotiations on certain issues, as you have done successfully on other issues. So I do not think that you are completely free from responsibility. As I said before, this is a complex issue. If it had been solved with previous investigations, we wouldn't be here today. When the government took over at the beginning of the term of office, an investigation was immediately set up and asked for reports, because there was no evidence. What's wrong? What's it look like? Who's affected? Why are they affected? What should be done? This is exactly what the government has now asked the investigation to present. Now, unfortunately, the results of the investigation come in October, but it was the complex matter that required a long time. We will have to deal with the outcome of the House which is then in charge, but I am convinced that it will be very good because we have such a complete consensus on the issue of the LSS. What came now was a quick solution. It was an opportunity, legally speaking, to remove two-year trials. It is not entirely straightforward because it raises some other concerns as some referral bodies, as the Social Insurance Agency and others have pointed out. However, this means that those who are in the system today and have the help they have will be allowed to keep it. This also applies to judgments other than the so-called transport judgment.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-404	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mikael Dahlqvist is very well aware of what we are doing in the budget negotiations and what we have succeeded in there with regard to LSS. I also think that Mikael is very well aware that it is not in the budget negotiations that legislative proposals are being made – right? That is what we are talking about right now. We need a change of law, and we need to make sure that the LSS goes back to its basic intent. Like you said yourself, Mikael, we seem to be touchingly in agreement. I think that we would have achieved such a change of law today with quite a lot of agreement if you had just tabled that proposal. You haven't. Regarding assistance, you have repeatedly said that everyone should receive the support and help they need. But assistance is about so much more than that. Assistance is about the right to self-determination and to have the right to live your life like everyone else. I don't know what it means to get support and help. It can mean all kinds of action. It can be about home care, about the Social Services Act or about anything. What we are talking about – what we are fighting for – is to secure the basic intention in LSS and to ensure that personal assistance works as it is supposed to do so that we all have the right to live our lives. Saying that you should get support and help is not the same thing. My question is, do you understand the difference? Do you understand the difference?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-409	Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to be very personal, Maj Karlsson. I can understand this question much better than you and the rest of the congregation do. I have a daughter with large functional variations who receives support in accordance with LSS. I never talk about this in public, but I thought you stepped on a terrible sore toe. I understand exactly what the LSS means. As far as my daughter is concerned, the new interpretation gives her the efforts that we think are needed. It sounds like no one in the whole country is getting help, but let's remember that most people get very good help. I know what LSS means. This means that Maja, as her name is, can come to the cafeteria, buy a pizza and take a look at the floorball. However, if in a speech I were to recite everything that support and service means, it would take time and be rather tiring. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise once again that it is clear that you in the Left Party could have influenced the budget negotiations if you had had this as your top priority issue. Among other things, you gave considerable priority to the issue of welfare gains. I think it would be nice to be a little more downhearted in the criticism when you are part of a certain cooperation. That's what I stand for.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-413	Madam President, I would like Listeners, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government is working purposefully and long-term to develop welfare policy in a sustainable direction. The committee's report 17 Some proposals on personal assistance are, in my view, a clear example of how this government tackles problems that should have been addressed a long time ago. The 1993 LSS legislation constituted a revolution for those affected by the law. Citizens with severe functional variations suddenly acquired the right to live independent lives, just like everyone else. If many politicians, for example from this pulpit, repeat that this reform is under threat, people can perceive it as a truth. Now we have one party that has not spoken in the debate, but I find it hard to believe that this party would take a different view from that of all the other parties here, namely that we agree that we stand for the intentions of 1993. This is a right law. Whatever budgetary decisions are made, it is the right to govern. The agency is obliged to comply with the law, and the agency's budget can be deducted if it is the case that politicians allocate too little money to this right. When the law came into force, in 1994, a large number of companies emerged that supplied the service that this law provided. Today, the market is dominated by four large companies. I hope it is the rogue operators who have been cleared out. The studies that have been carried out in these years – there have been a number of times – also point to the fact that, from the outset, there was quite a lot of fraud with tax funds in this area but that it has been reduced. Legislation is a complicated task. It was probably very fast in 1993, when the law came into effect. Perhaps, as is often the case in politics, a window was opened so that it was possible for such a fantastic reform to take place for a short time. The LSS legislation had very many clear positive effects. There was no criticism, but the whole thing just rolled on. I was a municipal politician at the time, and I think we were quite proud to show delegations from other countries how well we arranged it for people with disabilities here in our country. But then it started to get smok in the cup. Court trials changed how the law could be implemented by the authorities. In 2009, a judgment narrowed down the concept of a basic need. In 2012, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded that LSS could not be applied if necessary outside the scope of the Social Services Act. In 2015, some efforts were limited to being possible only for those with mental disabilities. These judgments had, of course, a major negative impact on the application of LSS rights. The deterioration became so extensive that the government decided to set up a major investigation in 2016. We saw how the intentions behind the LSS reform were gradually broken out when the law was tried by the judiciary. We saw that we had to defend the rights by trying to rewrite the law so that it would hold to be tried by the courts. As we have heard in previous exchanges in the debate, it has actually been apparent for quite a long time that politics should have taken on this far earlier. Of course, no one who needs the rights included in LSS legislation in order to live a normal life should be deprived of that right, as I think some less serious debaters are trying to say. I do not know of such ambition. Then, Madam President, came the judgment in 2017, which made reasonable working conditions for assistants impossible and gave the organisers hopeless conditions for hiring. Suddenly the time between the stakes does not count as working time – much as if the guard in the subway would only get paid when someone passes the lock or as if the operator on SOS Alarm or 1177 would not get paid for the time between the calls. You can also imagine emergency services waiting for an alarm to come – should the staff not have a job then? The government saw the problems with the verdict. This problem was not included in the investigation that was set up in 2016. The government instructed all relevant authorities to look quickly at the evidence they could obtain to enable the government to take action, for example through legislation to correct this. Unfortunately, legal certainty requirements and the need for a thorough basis when legislating mean that it takes time to bring forward a package of measures. The assessment, as I have already said, was that the new additional problems could not be referred to the large LSS investigation. This is because we do not want to extend it – we think it would be a shame to give additional directives that might require us to postpone it from October until some time next spring. We need a fast track here. In the context of judicial review, it has become apparent that, in the current LSS legislation, it is unclear from many different perspectives when it is possible to grant personal assistance. This is a problem and we need to clarify what applies. With this government proposal, on which we have written a report, it becomes clear that assistance should be granted, both in the case of waiting times and in the case of situations where needs can be expected. The bill also takes care of the two-year trials, which several have touched on. We choose to retain the possibility of re-examination in the event of drastic changes in the situation of the person concerned. It is not so short-sighted that it would change after the elections, if we remain, but it is very clear in this that it is an assessment. You choose to quote what you want. You chose to quote the first sentence, but in the next sentence it says that, in the view of the government, this – as stated in the previous sentence at the time – should become the case at the earliest when a reformed assistance legislation comes into force. And when does it? It will probably take six months after the investigation is completed before the proposal can be used, even if a government works quickly, so somewhere there, perhaps in just over a year from today. So you should read the whole text and not just the pieces you think are interesting for your own argumentation. I support the proposal in the report, Madam President. There have been some follow-up movements. I have to say that I think that there has been good arguments for them here, and I think that some of what is in them could very well be the government's proposal in due course. However, we have seen that it is important to fix things quickly, and that is why we have as soon as we have been able to develop a fast track for what we have been able to produce the basis for decision-making. There are quite a lot of demands on the documentation in order to be able to present a proposal to the Riksdag. The government can't just do that. I believe that there will also be further proposals based on the work that has been going on since last autumn, so I hope that we will be able to get further proposals from the government right now. If there is then something else before the big investigation, I dare not say. It will take me a little while to comment on all those proposals, so I will settle for one of them. I would like to point out from the Green Party that, of course, we are very keen that we have good control methods and follow-up work to ensure that resources are used properly. For us, it is a very important line of defence when it comes to all kinds of welfare reforms that they are not abused, because then they can get a bad reputation. Citizens' support is based on policy being able to manage resources so that those who have a resource really get it and not others who should not have it. It's very important, otherwise democracy won't work. I would just like to point out once again that there is no intention on the part of the government or the Green Party to impair the conditions of the LSS legislation. On the contrary, our ambition is precisely to ensure that the law works as it was originally intended. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-438	Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor when I heard Jan Lindholm from the Green Party saying that when you listen to the debaters it sounds like the LSS is threatened. Then, Madam President, I wonder what world the Green Party's parliamentary group and Jan Lindholm live in. Have you not received all these hundreds of emails from desperate people? Don't you meet disabled people's organisations? Don't you meet the aid recipients? Do you not read Försäkringskassan's statistics that say that 1,200 fewer have assistance today compared to 2014? Such a statement is difficult for me to understand. Then Jan Lindholm says that he does not know any ambition to impair LSS. No, Madam President, but six very wise, prominent environmentalist county councils and regional politicians know about it. In Today's Society, however, the directive for the investigation is clear; to make savings for fiscal reasons. It is no wonder, then, that many react strongly to the proposals and what they would mean in terms of restrictions on people's lives. ..................................................... The six leading environmental partners in county councils and regions further state that a clear rejection of the proposals is now required by the government and a redrafting of the directives for the investigation. Of course, I would like to ask Åsa Regnér or the environmentalists in the Government Office who have approved these directives, but they are not in the Chamber, so I ask Jan Lindholm the question: Does Jan Lindholm agree with the six wise environmental partners who say that the government must distance itself from the proposals and rewrite the directives for the investigation?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-444	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Anders W Jonsson is among those who contribute to trying to inflate the view that LSS legislation would be threatened. I'm sorry about that. If Anders W Jonsson listened to the political debate, he would understand that there is no party that wants to threaten LSS legislation. We try to defend it, but we have different roles as opposition parties and government parties. We must take responsibility for the process. That's the difference. I have been an opposition politician myself, so I know that there are roles. Then I think that it is a bit bleak to come here and say that we should distance ourselves from the proposals. The investigation will come up with its proposals in October – we will discuss it then.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-446	Madam President, I would like The environmental party's parliamentary group and Jan Lindholm have a completely different picture of reality from the one that I and the Center Party have. After all, we meet these people who today are in despair because they lose their assistance. The Green Party then pretends that this has nothing to do with politics and the government, but the Finance Minister of the government supported by the Green Party clearly said already in 2015 that savings would be made in this area. That is also what has been included in the regulations to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and that is what the Green Party has written for the investigation. Jan Lindholm, who represents the Green Party's parliamentary group, says that it is powerful to make the connection that these environmental-partisan politicians, me and the Center Party see. This means that Jan Lindholm and the Swedish Green Party's parliamentary group think that colleagues are wrong. They do not think, as environmentalists around the country obviously do, that the demand for savings on assistance compensation for state financial reasons has serious consequences for people's lives and that the government, as environmentalists across the country write, must therefore clearly reject the proposals and rewrite the directives for the investigation. I agree to the point about what these environmentalists have written in Dagens Samhälle, but my interpretation is that Jan Lindholm and the Environmental Party's parliamentary group think it is a meagre statement to say exactly as they say. My impression is that these are six politicians who are in contact with the people who are hit hard and perhaps also read the statistics from Försäkringskassan that show that 1,200 fewer people have assistance today compared to 2014 when the Green Party entered Rosenbad.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-450	Madam President, I would like I find it very difficult for the debate technique that Anders W Jonsson is doing, to talk about what the opponent says and thinks and so on. I visit many municipalities around the country, and I meet many disabled people. I know exactly and just as well as Anders W Jonsson how these changes are going, and I know that it started already in the last parliamentary term. I know that the LSS has been eroded and that it is a process that has been going on for a long time. I'm very knowledgeable in that area, I'll tell you. I know a lot about how people are affected. This does not mean that there are any parties here that do not want the intentions that existed from the beginning, in 1993, to remain. It does not mean that, but we are trying to take responsibility, which Anders W Jonsson has not done. He has not taken responsibility for trying to strengthen the legislation so that the basic intentions of 1993 can remain. We're trying to do it. We set up an investigation in 2016 that has the ambition to ensure that we get legislation that holds for these trials, because we saw that it did not. That's what we're working on. To then come and talk about budget here and there – this is a law of rights, Anders. Don't forget that! It is a law of rights.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-455	Madam President, I would like I will do something a little unusual and agree with Jan Lindholm. Both in the speaker's chair and the replicator's chair, he said, like many others in here: We want, of course, that everyone who has the right to help should get it. Yes, it is easy to say – as long as you are not prepared to admit that rights are actually curtailed every day and that additional methods have been ordered for these rights, essentially human rights, to be curtailed. The aid is no longer in line with the needs, Jan Lindholm. It's obvious. We see it in the media, and I see it in my mailbox and phone. Every day there are new reports. I would like a clarification from Jan Lindholm : Why is there a discrepancy between your and of course we want, and of course everyone gets their support and the fact that it is not so? The second thing Jan Lindholm highlighted was the thousand companies, and I interpreted it as a problem, and four major companies dominate. If you ask the individual aid beneficiaries, I do not think that the four big ones dominate or that it is a problem that there are thousands of companies. For me it is definitely not a problem but an advantage, because it shows that freedom of choice works. This shows that the intention of the law that you can freely choose your assistance works, and we will protect that, Jan Lindholm, does not oppose.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-459	Madam President, I would like I thank Bengt Eliasson for the question. I mentioned the many companies – which have become considerably fewer, and many are not active – because I wanted a basis to show what I think has happened. Many companies were started, and in the beginning there was quite a bit of fiffle and money that disappeared out of the system. The fact that investigations show that fraud has been reduced is, I believe, linked to larger companies having a larger part of the market and that the smallest have disappeared or are inactive because it is not as lucrative anymore and more legal competence is needed. I agree and think that I tried to say in my speech that there is a huge difference between the intentions of the law and what we politicians want and the support they get today. That is why, unlike what you did during your time in power, we are actively trying to change this. We have set up an investigation to look at how we can get an LSS law that holds, so that the intentions behind it can also be passed by the courts. If it is not clear enough what actually applies, we will eventually have problems with what we want to become an internship. I agree that it is a huge problem that there is so much difference between what the idea of legislation is and what is actually delivered. People get hurt because of it, and that's why we're worried and working on this.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-464	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Lindholm for his answer, although of course I am not entirely satisfied with it. Now we are back where the debate began, with the directives for the investigation. Where do the directives say all the good things Jan Lindholm wants it to deliver? Savings and economics are mentioned forty times in the investigation directives. Freedom of choice is mentioned in a clause, if we are to compare with that. It is explicitly stated in the directive that no proposal must be made that costs more than today, that it is personal assistance that will pay for it and that additional savings may be made for fiscal reasons, as has been mentioned earlier. Madam President, I would like Here we are connected to everything. This is an impossible situation both for the investigator and for the approximately 16 000 people who are eligible for assistance. Of these, 14 000 are receiving assistance today; the rest are not. Another concern is precisely who is allowed and who is not allowed. It is pointed out that they receive it from the municipality or that they receive other contributions instead. However, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's latest report shows that 17 per cent of those who have been rejected have no intervention at all and have received nothing else, even though they have previously had extensive assistance. We have no idea how this 17% lives their lives today. Probably a number of them are trapped in a much poorer life than before. This is a concern, Jan Lindholm. When will the requirements for additional directives come?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-470	Madam President, I would like I do not think there will be any additional directives, because we are afraid that it will delay the process. I know that additional directives have been discussed, but I believe that this would be to the detriment of users. We want a process as fast as possible. I can admit that I am not satisfied with the investigation directives. But all experienced politicians know that it is unusual that you don't have that type of writing because the Ministry of Finance, which is the third state authority or something like that, has tremendous influence on all documents that go out of the Government Office. It is therefore normal to have wordings to ensure that public funds are not spent irresponsibly. This can be expressed more or less well, but it is a matter of rights law. While such a wording may have an impact on the investigation's proposal, the aim is essentially to ensure that the 1993 legislation is able to be tried in court and that these rights apply. That's the basic idea. I do not have that text here, but I know that you are quoting precisely the part relating to the economy. I understand that, because it is grateful for the opposition to do so. But in all the investigations that took place during your time, this was included in almost all the investigative directives, because it is a hold-up that the system demands.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-474	Madam President, I would like A society should be judged by how we handle and support each other in the situations in life when we are in greatest need of each other. This is what is being society together. The main task of politics is to ensure that our common resources are used for what is most important. We have a government that claims to have a reform space of 40 billion but that sat still and watched when the Social Insurance Agency's budget forecast noted that the expenses for assistance compensation my loss by 4.8 billion in 2016. In 2017, they decreased by 2.7 billion in relation to the forecast and, for the current year, the latest forecast indicates that they will decrease by an additional 1.4 billion. The level of ambition has fallen, and the government has chosen not to take the active measures needed to steer the development that is increasingly going in the wrong direction. Today's debate is not so much about what the bill contains but about what it does not contain. There is a great deal of agreement that the emergency braking measures that the government is now making are necessary, but we do not agree that, as the government now chooses to do, passively look at the changes that have been going on since 2015. I understand that it is difficult to keep up with those who do not follow this issue closely. We see a legal development with judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015. The present government points back in time and says: You did nothing then. But the authorities' analyses – the latest one came before Christmas – are very clear: something happened in 2015. That's when new applications began to be made. The latest budget forecast from Försäkringskassan indicates that there was a doubling of the number of withdrawals. People who might have had assistance for ten years no longer received it, even though the needs were the same. There was a doubling in 2016. The current government has chosen not to do anything about this. In addition to what has already been expressed by the others who support our common reservations, I would like to call for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation No 2. Something has arisen from what the government is now doing, which goes completely against the principles of law that we have. It creates a difference before the law. The government stops what could have happened to many: to have their assistance withdrawn. But nothing is being done to restore the support of those who have already had a negative decision, the doubling of the number of withdrawals or the huge increase in the number of rejections for those who are seeking for the first time. For them, what the government has presented today does not help at all. The same applies to everyone who receives support from municipalities and who is denied on the same basis, as the municipalities are bound by the same judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court. I hope that individual members of the parties will choose to support our reservations.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-484	Madam President, I would like I support all of the joint reservations of the Moderates and the Alliance, but for time winning, I only support reservations 1 and 3. In my speech, I will touch on the more direct rail issues, while my colleague Erik Ottoson will later talk about public transport. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning railway is important for people to be able to get to and from work, to leisure activities or to travel in our country. It is also crucial for companies and industry to have their goods delivered and in the long run for growth and competitiveness. Swedish railway is badly neglected. When the government took office, the tone was high. The problems of the railways would be addressed by day one, promised Social Democrats in the electoral movement. Three years later, the problems remain great. Last autumn we heard reports of 43 000 inspection notes waiting to be corrected. People are freezing on platforms waiting for trains that are not coming or that are coming late. This is not just a snowy day like this – the problems of ne-powered contact lines or other maintenance deficiencies are everyday for the commuter. This is not good enough. For decades the maintenance of Swedish railway has been neglected, perhaps because it has been more fun to cut bands than to take care of what we have already built. It's a mistake. Therefore, the Alliance government doubled the funding for railway maintenance. This policy needs to continue, and the time when the policy was tumbling on maintenance must be over. The Moderates want to both expand and maintain the railway. We must take responsibility for and maintain the railways we have. But it is crowded on the tracks, and new capacity is needed. Getting order on Swedish railways must be a priority. That's why we match every penny the government spends on rail investments. But not everything is money. Governance and efficiency are equally important. The money we are spending must go into the tracks, and we must get as much rail as possible out of every invested tax chandelier. It is therefore worrying that the government is now proposing that much of the maintenance that is currently being carried out on our railways be returned to government direction. I think it is reasonable and sensible for the Finnish Transport Administration to regain the responsibility for inspection and to have full control of the railway system that is being based over. However, it is not as reasonable to require that all maintenance and efforts on the railways must take place in the same organisational form. It runs counter to much of the research in this area on what is effective and contributes to innovation in the rail system. It also runs counter to the investigation which, on over 1 000 pages, has analysed the problems and solutions of the railways but which the government refuses to proceed with. We have had this debate before, and I return to the unfortunate fact that it is not taking advantage of the solid investigation that has been carried out. If we agree that everything is not just about money, we should also seriously want to overcome the organisational challenges of the railways. The Moderates and the Alliance highlight several proposals and ideas in the report. As I said, it is about getting the organisation of the railways in order and enabling longer and heavier freight trains so that we can have more efficient rail transport. For the Moderates, it is about exploring the possibilities of having a national transport supply programme where we take a more clearly than we do today a strategic approach to how we want to use our railways, which traffic should be prioritised and how. I am not going to go into the various proposals, but I can see that there is much to be done in addition to purely monetary efforts to ensure that we get Swedish railways in order. Madam President, I would like Soon the government will decide on the next national transport plan. The decision will then be made as to which investments will be made in the railways over the next 12 years. Since the government, not the parliament, owns the decision, many people wonder what the government really wants. I welcome the fact that we agree to invest in Swedish railways, and the Moderates match every penny the government lays down. However, I am concerned that the government has not presented either a timetable or funding for the high-speed roads it wants to build. Today's proposal provides ready-made tracks 2095 – a little comfort for all people who depend on the railways today. When the Green Party says to borrow, the Minister for Infrastructure says that there are no free lunches, but that he should turn every stone around. What does that mean? Do the Social Democrats also want to borrow 200 billion? I doubt that, and then there is no money for a rapid expansion. What is the result of the minister now turning every stone around? It's time to tell. The Moderates give priority to solving rail problems through maintenance and new tracks, but we will also always protect taxpayers' money. This is how we take responsibility both for sustainable, reliable transport and for a combined economy.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-499	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating one of the most important areas that exists, namely infrastructure. All citizens often ask themselves the questions: Where am I? Where am I going? How do I get there? A lot of people get there using the railroad. Now that we are on the railways, we cannot help discussing high-speed railways. The high-speed railway was launched by the former alliance government in 2013. It was called the construction of Sweden. The price tag for the high-speed railway was 170 billion SEK. I was a little curious about this and made a study visit to China in the spring of 2015, because 60% of the world's high-speed railways are in China. That's where you have the expertise. I made a journey between Beijing and Shanghai — a journey of 1,000 miles [1,000 km]. That train stopped the trip in a town called Nanjing with 10 million inhabitants. You get a little perspective, that is to say that you are stopping in a city that has as many inhabitants as the whole of Sweden. After my visit to China, I was visited by a Chinese delegation in Sweden. The Chinese then announced that they could build a Swedish high-speed railway for the same amount as the construction of Sweden – 170 billion SEK – but that it would take only five years. In connection with this visit from China, Karin Svensson Smith received the famous Chinese victim of SEK 170 billion. The Transport Committee visited China a year and a half later. Prior to this visit, the Swedish Transport Administration released a bomb. Suddenly, the high-speed railway would cost SEK 320 billion. During the time we visited China, the Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson had to take the Swedish Transport Administration's ear and say that this cannot be done without lowering the price. A few weeks later, the price was down to SEK 230 billion. It is now said that the construction will be completed between 2038 and 2060. Furthermore, as the previous speaker, Jessica Rosencrantz, said, there is evidence that it may not be ready until 2095. Let me give you an example. A company is going to build a factory, and you're going to invest 1 billion in the factory. Of course, you want to build this factory as soon as possible, because it is only when the factory is finished that you can get revenue. They do not build a factory by constructing a concrete plate for SEK 100 million for two years, then leave the building stationary for five years and then build two walls for SEK 300 million, then wait another ten years to build two more walls and finally, after 25 years, put on the roof. This is not how it works in the business world, and this should not be possible in Swedish infrastructure and railway expansion either. What is highly topical today is the East Link. When Trafikverket first presented its plan for Ostlänken it would cost SEK 35 billion. Then the price suddenly rose to SEK 56 billion, and today it is up to SEK 70 billion. I'll give you a calculation example. So the cheese link is 150 miles long. What, then, is the price per mile of railway? SEK 70 billion divided by 15 mil is SEK 4.7 billion per mile of railway. Then we should know that the conditions for building rail on the Ostlink are very good. If you multiply the mileage of the SEK 4.7 billion by 75 km of railway, as the new high-speed railway will be, we suddenly end up at a price of SEK 350 billion. Then the conditions are still good on the Ostlink if you compare with Jönköping – Gothenburg, where it is very difficult to build railway, or if you compare Jönköping – M almö, where you are going into the Småland marshes. Therefore, the price per mile will probably be significantly higher. Last autumn, Trafikverket presented its proposal for the national plan for the transport system 2018 – 2029. There, the Director-General advocated an extension with a maximum speed of 250 kilometres per hour. Two weeks ago, there was a new investigation. At that time the Swedish Transport Administration suddenly advocated an extension with a maximum permitted speed of 320 kilometres per hour, but that it should be built with concrete instead of with macadam. Among other things, Karin Svensson Smith and I have long advocated building with concrete. But the difference is that Karin Svensson Smith and I want to build on a bridge and not on the ground, as the Swedish Transport Administration wants. The problem with building concrete on land is that we have a Nordic climate. What happens when the climate becomes as it is now, i.e. very cold, and then it gets frosted? If you build concrete on ground, you can never fix these sets in the way you can when you straighten the tracks when they are on the macadam. SJ has announced that it has ordered new Delta trains to be delivered in the early 2020s. By increasing the speed of these trains through some ninety curves on the southern main rail line, the journey time could be reduced by 25-30 minutes on the route between Stockholm and Malmö. Then travel time is down to 4 hours.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-515	After 2028, when the Ostlink between Järna and Linköping is completed, you can earn another 10 – 20 minutes on the Stockholm – Malmö route. Then you are down to a travel time of 3 hours and 35 minutes between Stockholm and Malmö, and the direct trains could be at the distance of 3 hours and 15 minutes. Then the question is: Is it worth 350 billion SEK to earn 45 minutes travelling time between Malmö and Stockholm? In an interview in Aftonbladet last week, Göran Persson was asked: Is the high-speed train worth the price? Göran Persson answered accurately: No, I have never understood why we should invest SEK 350 billion to make Copenhagen the centre of the Nordic region. That will be the regional policy consequence. Once a Swedish high-speed railway will be completed, with today's pace of expansion, we will have the world's most expensive and the world's most outmoded railway. Madam President, I would like Ertms, the European Rail Traffic Management System, is a new signalling system for railways. The purpose of Ertms is to enable efficient cross-border train traffic. In Sweden, Ertms has been first used on the Bothnia Line and then on the Ådalsbanan, Haparandabanan and Västerdalsbanan. Next up is the Malmbanan. What did I just say the Ertms is for? Well, Ertms is there to enable efficient cross-border train traffic. How much cross-border train traffic is there up in northern Sweden? Today we have a well-functioning system. The trains are now double equipped. This applies to the Öresund trains, the X2000 trains and also to the so-called EC locomotives operating cross-border trains without any problems whatsoever. The Swedish Transport Administration claims that the expansion of Ertms will cost SEK 30 billion. It is then interesting that Banedanmark claims that the expansion in Denmark will also cost SEK 30 billion. But the difference is that Denmark has only one fifth as much rail as Sweden. Yet Banedanmark claims that it will cost SEK 30 billion. And Trafikverket in Sweden claims that it will cost SEK 30 billion. Who's counting wrong? I would like to say that it is the Swedish Transport Administration and that the Danes have a much better track of what this will cost. I will also say a few words about rail safety. I have mentioned many times in the speaker's chair that we must invest in safety doors on the Swedish trains corresponding to the doors on the aircraft in order to prevent the cutting of trains. Madam President, I would like We must also ban trains with only one employed person on board, i.e. only one train driver. A train wagon smokes in less than a minute, and it is completely lit in less than three minutes. From an indication of fire, it takes at least a minute before the train can stop. After that, safety calls must be made and permits must be obtained before passengers can be released. The delay that occurs with only one, alone, train drivers on board can mean the difference between life and death for travellers. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that a player in today's procured train traffic should not be able to win a tender through rules with reliefs that mean lower safety for passengers. Trains with only one train driver on board should therefore generally be banned, Madam President. I support our reservations Nos 8 and 12.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-525	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that if Sweden is to function, it is absolutely crucial that the people who live and work here and the companies can feel safe with the means of transport that are made available. The means of transport, whatever they may be, are often discussed in terms of capacity and accessibility. The discussion is, to a large extent, about the trains. We know from experience in our country that increased competition and a greater diversity of railway operators and operators, whether it be passenger or freight trains, have for decades led to more departures, lower prices and higher efficiency. It has also led to better maintenance of the track itself and of the system used by railway operators. That is how a market economy works, and we are one in our part of the world after all. As a representative of the Center Party in this traffic policy debate, I would like to mention two of the many perspectives in the report. One is efficiency through competition, and the other is equality between men and women when we plan for the transport apparatus and make it available. The challenge for the railway is the facility itself: the tracks, switches and signalling systems, and more that the operators, regardless of who they are, use to meet the requirements of us as customers in the system and use it. This applies regardless of whether the customer is someone with a personal name who is going with a passenger transport or whether it is a large or small Swedish company that is going to move goods. In 2013, the then alliance government decided on the initiative of the then Transport Committee to set up an investigation to make a thorough analysis of the Swedish rail system. In December 2015, the investigator, Professor Gunnar Alexandersson, presented his final report. It's called Another Train Order – beyond the Railway knot. The report is not one of the world's most readable documents. It is quite dry, and it covers many sides. But it is also rich in content. The investigator tied many well-known people to his work in the form of experts and users of the Swedish rail system. This is probably one of the largest reviews of Swedish railways ever made. The investigator presents a wide range of proposals aimed at strengthening the rail system and increasing accessibility, reliability and efficiency. I think my conclusion and that of many others is that Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation should be a gold mine for any Minister of Infrastructure and something to put his teeth in. This is, of course, an expert study filled with good proposals on how to make a complicated national rail system work better. But not so – both the then and the present Minister of Infrastructure, Social Democrats Anna Johansson and Tomas Eneroth, chose to make this solid work a shelf heater. It is both spectacular and remarkable that the government has so consistently announced that it will not even allow the investigation to be referred to. For those who listen to this debate, the speeches earlier and the speeches that are coming, it must appear as a mystery that a government chooses to ignore a thorough search that includes so many suggestions for improvements on a social issue that is discussed as much as the Swedish rail system. There is always a great deal of discussion about this. My analysis, which I also think is correct, of why Anna Johansson and Tomas Eneroth have so consistently chosen not to bother with the investigation, is that its proposal and conclusion on continued market opening to achieve efficiency, cost control and increased accessibility in the Swedish rail system did not fall on the lip of the red-green government. The government is ideologically weighted by promises to renationalise the Swedish rail system, and therefore it was quickly assessed that Alexandersson and the other investigators had come to the wrong conclusion. This is probably also the reason why they have not dared to refer to the investigation. The Red-Green Government is afraid to have its policy of renationalising tested in a consultation session in which social actors, rail operators and operators are allowed to give their views on and are likely to confirm many of the findings of the investigation. One reason why I think I'm right in this analysis or speculation-- because I admit it's a speculation-- is that first Anna Johansson and then Tomas Eneroth, both infrastructure ministers in the same government, firmly successively, now also clearly flagged to renationalise the Swedish railway sector. One example of this is the recent news from the Minister for Infrastructure that basic maintenance should be transferred from Infranord to the Swedish Transport Administration. I would say, Madam President, that this is a deeply unfortunate development. I would like to remind you once again that it is thanks to the fact that the maintenance of the railways, the management of the railways and the operation of the railways have increasingly taken place in competition and diversity over the last 30 years that the common money we spend on the system has been able to be used more effectively. Madam President, I would like As confirmation of this, the National Road and Traffic Research Institute reported in 2014 that the opening of competition through the procurement of railway maintenance has led to reduced maintenance costs by approximately 12 per cent. 12 percent – is it very or little? When we talk about sums of SEK 200 - 300 billion, 12 percent is very much money. It is money that can be used to get a better functioning railway or, in another political context, to health care, care and care. I and others have heard the Swedish Transport Administration's talented Director General Lena Erixon say that her and the Swedish Transport Administration's biggest challenge when the Swedish parliament and government give them greater funding to work with is that the increases in funding should not burn up on an inflation fire. Without many and talented actors who through procurement and method development drive maintenance of the Swedish railway forward, the risk, as I see it, is great that the Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration is forced to see cost increases instead of productivity increases when free capacities leave the country for other markets where they are allowed to test and develop their methods. Madam President, I would like I find no other word for this but that it is tragic. My conclusion will be that Sweden needs a new political leadership that is mature to move Swedish railways forward and back onto the track. Madam President, I would like The Center Party does not accept any splits of the country or between people. I believe that we are all committed to ensuring that our transport system meets the different needs of women and men equally. Transport is fundamental to our everyday lives, and equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities in, for example, work commuting, training commuting and social travel. We can see that today women and men travel in different ways and value safety and the environment differently in traffic. Men use cars to a greater extent, while women make a larger share of their trips on foot, by bicycle or by public transport. One could say that women travel more sustainably by travelling collectively and by not exposing themselves or others to the same risks in traffic. Therefore, reliable, safe and attractive public transport is not only a traffic issue but also a gender equality issue. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that in order to develop a more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system, it is necessary for both women and men to participate in discussions and decisions concerning the transport system. That is not the case today, but that is the way it has to be. On this point too, the country needs new political leadership. Madam President, I would like I naturally agree with the reservations expressed by the Center Party and the Alliance in this report, but for the sake of time, I shall limit myself to requesting the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 9.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-542	Madam President, I would like We in the Left are of the opinion that the liberalisation of the railways leads to a significant deterioration in the ability to operate adequate rail services nationally. When SJ lost traffic rights it became more difficult to reach environmental and climate targets because we had less control possibilities and had to push the business in many ways – partly because of competition from other traffic types on the nationwide traffic, and partly because of the return requirement on SJ. We think we need to go back, and we have quite a few voters with us in all ranks, from both right and left, who believe that the state would run SJ best. We want to go that way, but first we want to give SJ priority on the main tracks. I support our reservation 2 on this matter. The private operators are naturally looking for raisins in the cake, and it can be clearly seen, for example, that the Stockholm – Gothenburg route is a profitable route. There, competition increases, while on the other sections of society that the population may need may not be invested from private companies, but society may bear the costs – as it usually is when profit-making interests are behind them. It is also important that we work with value for money within the system for the traveller. When we have this pressured business, it also easily happens that it is noticed on the price in the long term. In addition, it risks transferring more trips to cars and flights. We must invest a great deal in the railways and strengthen them. We see that the whole transport sector is missing the climate targets. There have been new reports showing that we will not make it in time at all in Sweden if we do not tighten up. As I have said many times in this pulpit, there is an incredible rush, and with the patriarchal system in which men have planned the transport system that has been dependent on profit, neither is it planned for women to travel well nor for achieving climate goals in time very effectively. I agree with the previous speaker that we need to put more women in power positions in the transport sector in order to achieve climate targets. There are many studies, especially from FOI, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, which show that women take greater responsibility for the climate issue and, as the previous speaker said, are less risk prone and therefore want to plan well in time to change society and protect us from the dangerous climate change that we can be exposed to and that we already see signs of has started in an alarming way. I would also like to raise the issue of mobility services. We have had a talk here in Parliament about it. Mobility services are of great benefit, where digitalisation can promote car sharing, urban freight transport and rural public transport. There have been discussions about public transport authorities buying in digitised systems to promote car sharing and then being able to follow up where they carpool a lot and then put public transport lines on the same routes. I think this is a very good way to combine public transport in rural areas with public transport that we have. It is perhaps most reasonable to have dense public transport in the cities, but in the countryside we need to solve it, and then this is a very effective way. We have a reservation to promote this development.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-554	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Wallrup. We don't think alike in everything, the Center Party and the Left Party. I take it that the Center Party stands for a liberal and market-oriented policy on public transport and social solutions, and I understand that Emma Wallrup proudly stands for some of the opposite positions. The Left Party and Wallrup express irritation that SJ was no longer allowed to have a monopoly and cohesive traffic system and that SJ was being pushed too hard. I interpreted the speech that way. I would just like to remind the House that the Left Party cooperates in budgetary policy with the cooperation government of Löfven – Lövin. In 2015, the government, with which the Left Party has an economic- political partnership, decided to pick out SEK 1.7 billion from an overcapitalised SJ. "Overcapitalised" was the word that Prime Minister Löfven used. 1.7 billion was taken from SJ as owner because it was considered that the company was overcapitalised. At the same time, SJ faced some of its biggest investments ever in new trains. They had to call an extraordinary general meeting to deliver the money to the state – in an economy where the Left Party is involved in influencing and governing.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-560	Madam President, I would like That question also interested me, so I immersed myself in it when this happened. I learned that it was actually the bourgeois government that had changed the owner's directives on how to plan profit withdrawals. I do not know the technical aspects, but at least the regulatory framework was changed so that this was the result. So the information I was given was that it was the bourgeois government that changed the directives and that it was in that way. But it is not something that the Left Party supports, and we would like to change the regulations back so that we can give SJ the best possible conditions to operate.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-562	Madam President, I would like It was a very good thing that it was the fault of the bourgeois government. But let me remind the Left Party, the House and Emma Wallrup once again that it is the current government that gives the directives it gives to the state-owned companies. This was in the autumn of 2015. This means that the current government, which governs the country and, in particular, economic policy with the support of the Left Party and Emma Wallrup, would have had at least one opportunity to give new directives. This means that the current government, which operates with the support of the Left Party and Emma Wallrup, planned its economic policy by, among other things, picking 1.7 billion out of an overcapitalised SJ. Don't try to blame the Alliance government, Emma Wallrup! The Alliance government in its day, with the same directive, picked out 72 million dollars. There's a difference between billions and millions. Then you left it for the train robbery. If 72 million was a train robbery, what do you think we should call it when you pick 1.7 billion out of SJ? Is it the big or small train robbery on which the Left Party has its views?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-565	Madam President, I would like I think the biggest train robbery is liberalisation. In fact, there is a book called The Great Train Robbery, which deals with the enormous problems and the enormous leakage of resources that liberalisation has led to. So I think it is a bigger issue. I think this is serious, and I thank you for the reminder. I'll push the question. When it happened, I researched it, but then there have been many other things on the table. I'll definitely look at it again. We are not in government cooperation, we are in budget negotiations with the government. So we are not in a position to influence the whole. Thank you for reminding me. I think I'll look at it again.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-569	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations in which the Liberals are present, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1 and 9. Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to function, it is important that people and companies can feel safe with the train as a means of transport. The snowstorms of the last few days show how important it is for both goods and people to arrive and that in time. Liberals believe that Sweden needs a mobility plan where you can look ahead and create new conditions for communications. It shall be a mobility plan covering all modes of transport and putting the traveller at the centre. Travellers should be able to easily make climate-smart choices by making the options available on a single platform. We will be able to choose to travel sustainably. A broader definition of which means of transport could be included in public transport would also facilitate and make transport more flexible and efficient. It should be easy to compare prices and timetables. And it is important to integrate different mobility services and to use the existing digital platforms. We want flexible national ticketing solutions. They need to be developed to make it easier for travellers to use different means of transport. With a national ticketing system for the whole of Sweden it would be possible to pay in advance for one or more given public transport regions. It would therefore make it easy to buy a ticket and travel across regional borders as well. I would like to remind you that last autumn the Liberals set aside money in their draft budget for the Finnish Transport Agency to enable a study of how smart mobility solutions could be developed in the future. A mobility plan could enable collaboration between public and private actors. We want to put the traveller at the centre. In order to promote transparency and competition on railway tracks, it must be easy to buy cross-border and cross-border journeys. The committee's follow-up Public Transport Act – a follow-up shows that access to and conditions for coordinated ticketing may need to be reviewed. Even in the committee's follow-up The whole trip all year! A follow-up to the accessibility of the transport system for people with disabilities, the committee's monitoring and evaluation working group said that it is important to make it easier to buy tickets. It must be easier to buy the journey across county and transport modes. In order to increase the benefit of travellers and to improve competition, the Alliance also believes that an industry-wide portal for open data should be created so that new services and, for example, apps can be developed. We would also like to point out the importance of competitively neutral access to digital infrastructure linked to ticketing and payment systems, in order to increase rail efficiency. It is again a question of putting the traveller at the centre. The transport system shall also be accessible to all travellers. It is about a smart, inclusive and sustainable approach. Liberals stress the importance of planning and designing different modes of transport based on a perspective that meets the needs of those who have functional variations, both physical and cognitive. When rebuilding platforms and stops, accessibility should always be a priority for everyone. We are also looking forward to a future in which vehicles allow for the inclusion of per-mobiles. Madam President, I would like With regard to railway maintenance, the alliance government inherited a heavily neglected railway and therefore made a historic effort to maintain the railways. Most assessments indicate that the needs for investment and maintenance of rail will continue to be high. It takes a lot of effort, and the money needs to go out and make good use of it. We would therefore like to stress that it is important for the responsible authority to work systematically to improve and improve the efficiency of the railway system and to better monitor the actual status of the railways. Every tax chandelier must work effectively. Liberals also often point out the low-traffic routes, where there is actually traffic. In order for us to have as much and as good infrastructure as possible for the money we invest, we need well-functioning competition. Renational rail maintenance does not solve the challenges of the future. Thanks to the fact that railway maintenance and investment are procured through competition, tax money has been able to be used more effectively. According to a report from VTI from 2014, the opening of competition for railway maintenance procurement has led to reduced maintenance costs by about 12 per cent, while maintaining quality. It is unfortunate that the government has decided to renationalise parts of railway maintenance in some parts of the country, despite the fact that the Finnish Transport Administration has pointed out that the government's renationalisation will lead to cost increases. The Government's decision runs counter to the conclusions of the expert and government investigator, Gunnar Alexandersson. We should invest in increased competition in investment and maintenance contracts in order to further increase cost-effectiveness. With increased competition, opportunities for more innovation and efficiency are strengthened. It also leads to lower prices in the industry. For Swedish infrastructure, increased competition can contribute to the ultimate goal: that more road and rail can be built for each invested crown. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the European signalling system, Ertms. We are talking about 30 billion, plus perhaps as much for the switchboards. And for the next planning period, 2018 – 2029, the bill is 15 – 16 billion. We in the Liberals are deeply concerned about developments in this particular area. We have noted concerns from the industry about cost increases, delays and operational problems. When I listened to the previous debate on LSS and the needs that exist in other areas of society, I was surprised that we are not sufficiently concerned about the development of the signalling systems. It costs a lot of money. We also have an environment where people are now becoming more cautious due to the implementation problems that exist. Ertms is not yet fully developed and not standardised. There are alternatives. We from the Liberals say you should hurry slowly. Let us even pause until there is a mature system that does not cost much money! We believe that the cost picture and technical functionality must be further analysed. We would also like to point out the investigations that have stated that we must be very careful with the implementation. I also note that the majority of committees do not mention that the Swedish National Audit Office is currently reviewing the implementation of Ertms. I would like to know why and how you relate to it. Madam President, I would like Longer freight trains would also be an opportunity to make our railways more efficient. In Europe, and not least in Denmark, you have trains up to 835 metres long. This is important to invest in Sweden as well. That would allow us to transport more on our railways. An equal transport system has been mentioned, and we in the Liberals believe that this is extremely important. It is about meeting the needs of women and men in the transport system. The statistics available show that women travel more collectively than men. It is sustainable travel, and we believe that this must be highlighted. With increased commuting, opportunities for widening labour market regions are also increasing, and this also benefits gender equality. Reliable, safe and attractive public transport is not only a traffic issue but also, to a great extent, a gender equality issue. Developing a more equal and sustainable transport system requires that both men and women can influence the design of the transport system. Madam President, I would like We also believe in sea-borne public transport and would like the government to highlight this issue as well. Seaborne public transport is an additional complement to increase opportunities to travel collectively. Madam President, I would like Traveling is a matter of mobility. It is a question of how to travel from A to B in the most smart and sustainable way. But we Liberals also believe that every tax chandelier should work effectively.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-598	Madam President, I would like Well-functioning transport and infrastructure are important pillars in the construction of society. It contributes to more jobs, better welfare, greater accessibility and reduced climate and environmental impact. The railway has a large and important role in the Swedish transport system. In order to meet the climate target, it is necessary to move freight transport from road to rail and shipping. The Christian Democrats have taken on board industry's desire for longer and heavier trains to be able to carry more goods by transport and to avoid reloading goods at border crossings to other European countries. Longer trains provide more cost-effective transport. The Christian Democrats are actively pushing for longer and heavier trains to become a reality in Sweden as well. By introducing longer and heavier freight trains, rail transport costs can be reduced. The capacity of the rail system is increasing while there can be a transfer of goods transport from truck to train. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the investigation carried out by the Finnish Transport Agency regarding the possibility of driving on longer or heavier freight trains. We expect this not to be delayed but speeded up so that trains of at least 740 metres become a reality even on Swedish railways.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-605	Madam President, I would like It is time to make it possible for longer and heavier freight trains also in Sweden. Short trains limit Swedish industry's ability to get goods transport by rail throughout the EU. It is a restriction that reduces the competitiveness of business.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-607	Madam President, I would like In recent years, the number of unauthorised people moving on railway tracks has increased. Among other things, young people take risks by staying on railway tracks. This has caused major delays in rail traffic for both regional and long-distance trains. Data from the Finnish Transport Agency shows that when unauthorised persons are detected on the tracks, the trains are stopped or greatly reduced, leading to delays mainly around large cities and in rush hour traffic. The Finnish Transport Agency states that track runs caused many delays per day in 2016 that affected passengers and freight transport. These delays are estimated to cost about SEK 80 million. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the Swedish Transport Administration, in cooperation with the train operators, should develop an action plan to make it more difficult for unauthorised people to enter the tracks and to reduce the number of train delays and personal accidents on railway tracks. Madam President, I would like The operation and maintenance of the country's railways and the development of new main roads are necessary to ensure passenger and freight transport. It is also an important prerequisite for social development and reduces the environmental and climate impact of society. The Christian Democrats believe that the maintenance of the railways should continue to be procured in competition. At the same time, we want to make demands of Trafikverket to build their own business in order to inspect and control procured and performed work. We believe that the Swedish Transport Administration will continue to be tougher in procurements and carry out its own inspections. Madam President, I would like The government chooses to nationalise maintenance and has given clear instructions to the Swedish Transport Administration to build its own business and organisation that will be costly and will not lead to better maintenance. Competition contributes to more cost-effectiveness and maintenance and is a cheaper option for taxpayers. It would be unfortunate if the government could get its plans through. I would like to stress that a well-functioning and accessible public transport system is of great importance in order to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector, while at the same time increasing the availability of work commuting. We believe that it should be easy and easy to get to work and school. I am aware that public transport is primarily the responsibility of municipalities and regions, but the Christian Democrats believe that the state should also help to increase the conditions for travelling collectively both in cities and in rural areas. We also believe that priority needs to be given to more environmentally friendly transport in tax-financed public transport and procured transport. In order to increase public transport travel, the Christian Democrats propose a study to subsidise bicycle and public transport travel to and from work without this being considered a taxable wage benefit or to allow for a gross salary deduction for public transport tickets. Madam President, I would like Public transport in water can relieve the traffic routes of municipalities and regions. Maritime transport causes less CO2 emissions and is an environmentally friendly and efficient means of transport that can transport many travellers in large cities. There are increasing numbers of lake-based homes and residential areas being built. Public transport on water will facilitate travel to the home and work. In Stockholm, boat commuting has been made possible with great success. The Christian Democrats see boat commuting as a good addition to other public transport and propose an investment in waterways, which are currently underused and have the potential to enable future residential and labour market areas. In order to make this possible, it is important to include boat commuting in the planning of the future infrastructure and make quays available and have a ticket system that includes procured commercial passenger traffic on water. The Christian Democrats propose that the Swedish Transport Administration be tasked with collaborating with municipalities and regions to support the expansion of public transport by sea. Madam President, I would like I would like to call for the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 13 and 19 and the Alliance-wide reservation No 1.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-618	Madam President, I would like This debate is about rail and public transport. All too often, when we talk about public transport, we tend to talk about infrastructure. Infrastructure is good, but it is only a prerequisite for running trains. Perhaps we should rely to a greater extent on the train traffic we want and dimension the infrastructure accordingly. I usually listen a lot to the Traveller Forum. We in the committee also had half a day at the Public Transport House and took to us what the various organisations dealing with regional but also national public transport wanted to say to us. They had a very clear message: It must be easier to travel collectively. Today you have to keep track of quite a few things if you go from one region to another and if you combine regional trips with national ones. I am therefore quite pleased with the wording that we have in the report that work is underway to simplify and have common data and that the ticket and payment system – the BOB system – that Samtrafiken has developed together with others can hopefully shortly become a common ticket and payment system for the whole of Sweden. I also look forward to the Trafikverket making it easier for regional traffic authorities to implement this without any limitation on any other ambition they have to implement. Because public transport must take passengers away from car traffic if we are to meet climate targets, and then it must be easier to travel collectively even if you combine different journeys. In the long term and not at all in the distant future, one must also imagine that one has mobility as a service, Maas. This means that you have public transport in the city centre and supplement it with a bike, taxi or car pool. It has this as a starting point for travel instead of the own owned car. In many parts of our country it is obvious to have your own car, but in many cities you would actually have to have the car as a complement rather than as the first alternative. This is not just about public transport but also about freight travel. If I just said that I'm proud and pleased with what the government has going on, this is a little sad. I must admit that we have not succeeded very well in our ambition to transfer long-distance truck journeys to rail and shipping. It is true that this is stated in the government declaration, and in fact it is something that has been said many times in this House. But the harsh reality is that we have not come very far with this goal. In fact, there is nothing to marvel at, because compared to other European countries we have the shortest trains and the longest lorries. We have also failed to obtain an environmental compensation system for rail transport on the ground, which is something that has been requested for a very long time. It is about compensation for the fact that it is very much cheaper to use a truck all the way than to combine with a train. This is needed pending the introduction of a road-wear tax for lorry transport. We have also received criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office that we do not live up to the European standard of what should be in relation to 100 kilometres an hour and that you can drive with 750 meters long trains all the way. We note that the Government intends to remedy this in connection with the establishment of the national plan. We will hopefully be able to check this out before Parliament stops for the summer. However, what is most on the agenda for rail and public transport is high-speed rail. I cannot help but reflect on Jessica Rosencrantz's statement to protect taxpayers' money. I believe that the government has no other intention than to protect taxpayers' money. In the report that Trafikverket presented last week, February 15, and called High Speed Tracks – Effects of speed 250 km/ h compared to 320 km/ h, it is noted that it certainly costs perhaps 25 billion more to build for 320 but that it gives a refund of 60 billion SEK. No other investment can be avoided if you get so much back. It sounds a bit like in the world of Moderates it's best to do nothing. We should be eternally grateful that in the 19th century our ancestors did not reason in the same way and did not build the first main courses. Where would Sweden have stood today? Or if we ourselves had discussed the bill An information society for everyone had said: Should you really invest in broadband and that people should have computers at home? After all, there were those who questioned this. But that investment has given an incredible amount back for prosperity, development for companies, jobs and export opportunities. We're facing an equally large paradigm shift now. Certainly we will contribute everything we can to find biofuels for aviation and to be able to invest in the change of fuel, but the harsh truth is that biofuels are not enough for everything. We must move towards more energy efficient transport. Then the railway is by far the same. If you choose to travel by train between Stockholm and Gothenburg, you can dispose of the equivalent of a spice measure of petrol in energy. Hit it if you can! It does not matter whether you hang overhead contact lines or put electrical loops in the way; the great efficiency in terms of low air resistance and little friction between steel wheels and rails is what makes the railway superior in terms of transporting many people or much goods per kilowatt-hour. So if you want to protect taxpayers' money, you should invest in high-speed rail. But the government not only sees the need for high-speed rail. Those who currently travel either in Västra Götaland or on Tjust and Stångådalsbanar or any of the 26 different regional railways should not see their opportunities cut. On the contrary, we need to rearrange these routes throughout the country. This is a finely branched system, where the small tracks are connected with the big ones. One assumes the other. I also think that the easiest climate action a person can take to facilitate the future of children and grandchildren in terms of reduced climate impact is to travel by train, even if you only do so once. All of us who travel in Skåne can see the difference after the Öresund trains have been expanded. You have not just had to whip people into the trains, but rather there are far too many travelers to make it easy. When I'm home riding in the train system, I admire people who are happy to stand between the stations, although the comfort of the car would of course be much greater. This is probably the biggest climate effort you can make as a private person in Sweden: choosing the train instead of flight or car. Then it is our job as politicians to expand that system, make it more reliable and make sure that things are connected, so that everyone who goes, whether it is local, regional, large-scale or high-speed, has their opportunity to do so in a simple, convenient and fast manner as well as possible. Then there is something between high-speed trains and regional commuting. There are other things that need to be expanded. When we went on our trip to Örebro and Hallsberg we took a great interest in the plans regarding the route between Oslo and Stockholm. There's a lot of points about this. Given how many flights are made between Oslo and Stockholm and how travel times look in Värmland and elsewhere, there is an enormous potential for improvement. The Botanical Corridor has a huge potential to accommodate more people, expand businesses and link this up. It is reasonable that the Botnia Line, which we have spent quite a lot of money on, is better connected with the investment that is made down to Gävle and Uppsala, so that it is possible to travel in 250 all the way and so that eventually you can make the Botanical Corridor a whole link. All of this, I think, is very worth it. But then one must also dare to do as our ancestors did in the 1800s. Sweden's economy and Sweden's public finances were not better then. But courageous decision-makers made the decision to borrow to invest in the future. It is about protecting taxpayers' money by investing in the new. What does this have to do with the future? Yes, I would like to join those who look at transport from a gender perspective. If men were to move as women on average, they would halve the impact of climate change. That's the difference. When building infrastructure that may last 50 to 100 years, such as a road or a railway, one should not plan in view of how men aged 55 move today. They may not be using this railroad or the road for much longer. Instead, plans should be made for those who are young or children today. How do they want to move? How do they do it? What do they think? What are their values? They have a few things in common. Owning a car isn't what defines your personality-- it's one of those things. But I can say that it was to a large extent so especially among the guys of my generation. I was born in the '50s. Not owning a car was kind of weird. Not taking a driver's license was a bit odd. That is not the case for young people today. Transport is much more practical. If you live in the country it is clear that it is pretty good to have a car, but if you live in the city you might rent a car in the summer or are in a car pool. We're gonna plan for that kind of travel. We should not plan for the travelers of the past, but for young people and for an equal transport system. In the Green Party, we take note of this too, but we do not want to make the climate a personal moral issue. Building your own railroad is quite difficult. Asking people to stay at home is also quite difficult. People have to work and make a living and want to get to meetings on time. That is why we must ensure that the railways are extended so that there are good alternatives to aviation and the car. I am very pleased that we have such a good atmosphere in the Transport Committee. Although we have different opinions, we can discuss with each other in an objective way, collect information together and take responsibility for what is our task as legislator and decision-maker in the Swedish Parliament. I support the proposal in the report.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-641	Madam President, I would like I thank Karin Smith for her speech. I wasn't going to take a line, but Karin Svensson Smith managed to provoke me anyway. Sometimes in the debate it sounds like the person who does not say yes to borrowing 200 billion and exposing taxpayers to that risk is against Swedish railways. Then it is becoming a somewhat absurd debate, I have to say. I began my speech by describing that the Moderates match every penny this government spends on the railways. That's the truth. The government has no more money than we have. That is why we are looking for the information from the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government on the high-speed trains that are so much talked about. So far, there's no such money anywhere in the government's accounts. We have not seen proposals on the table from the government to take a position on. There is much discussion about cross-block talks and whatever it may be, but no such talks take place. I don't know what's going on in the minister's head. The only thing I know is that the main representatives of the government parties in the parliament in terms of traffic issues, Karin Svensson Smith, tell us that we are going to borrow 200 billion and receive applause from the Social Democratic bench. In the absence of the Minister's presence, I should like to ask: is it the whole government's message that it now thinks we should borrow 200 billion, because that is what the chairman of the Transport Committee is saying?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-645	Madam President, I would like In this debate, I represent the Green Party. I believe that Tomas Eneroth has a good chance of speaking as a minister if he intends to take any initiatives in this context. However, I thank you for the question, because I find it very interesting to consider whether to pay for the railways through annual appropriations or to take out a loan. Now I don't know what Jessica Rosencrantz's housing situation looks like, but most people who buy a home don't pay it in cash. You pay it partly in cash but also take out a loan, because the value of the dwelling, whether it is a right-of-occupancy or a villa, lasts for a long time. Then the payment has also been spread out in a long time. The same is true of the railways, and this also applies to municipal politicians and county politicians. If you make a bigger investment you have an investment budget and spread the refund in a long time. I can't help but use the analogy with the Öresund Bridge. If we had used the Moderate concept to pay for the bridge, we might have had a third of a bridge by now. It would not have been a great joy if it had not been used as a predicament to jump into the Sound and swim. As an infrastructure, it would have been quite useless. It must be borne in mind that it is only when the whole route is complete that you can operate a train service. Construction starts, it's pretty hard to plan train traffic after. For this reason, the refund has to be spread over a long period of time, and that is what I was trying to explain in my speech.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-649	Madam President, I would like Karin Svensson Smith describes the Moderate concept. Maybe she means the government concept. The infrastructure bill states that high-speed lines should be built at the pace allowed by the economy. These are also the directives that the Finnish Transport Agency has acted on so far. It is therefore described that the expansion must take place within the plan. Of course, it is good to be able to use the opposition as a target when you do not get a response within the government. But the fact is that this is a government decision, not a parliamentary decision, and that it is the government that has given the directives to the Finnish Transport Administration. It says that the roads should be built at the rate the economy allows. Of course, there are different parameters to weigh against each other. It is not insignificant that we have a fiscal framework that most parties support and consider important to respect. Borrowing 200 billion affects the fiscal framework and how well Sweden lives up to it. It is clear that, as a moderate, I naturally support the fact that we should both expand the railways and also have a responsible economic policy. Then, within that framework, we will discuss what is the best way forward. But it will be absurd if we are to get stuck in a debate and pretend that the government has some money that it does not have. I think Karin Svensson Smith should go back to the government and try to make her voice heard there. It is worrying that there is no one in this House that the opposition can demand responsibility from. If you discuss with the chairman of the Transport Committee, she represents herself and not the two government parties to which she belongs. I can only say that we are leaving today and still do not know what the government's position is and hope that there will be a reply soon. It is important to expand the railways. That much we can agree on.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-655	Madam President, I would like I represent the Green Party and myself, of course. However, there is probably no difference of opinion on the railways in this regard. I would just like to note that we are looking with great concern at all the forecasts that climate scientists show. It's warmer in both the Arctic and Antarctica than it's been for a long time. People flee their countries because they lack water or because it is extreme weather and climate. It was a rather insightful Prime Minister who said in the autumn of 2006 in his first government declaration: I have read the Stern report. Doing nothing about the climate is much more expensive than doing something about the climate. When the Stern report concluded that climate change can lead to costs corresponding to two world wars, Fredrik Reinfeldt said that climate change is our generation's biggest challenge. He was absolutely right when he said it. He was absolutely right when he took the initiative for the construction of Sweden. The idea was to make a change that had nothing to do with the climate. It was a change that had to do with regional policy, labour market policy and housing to build up Sweden with the railway as a node. This has caused a very large positive response in all the municipalities where Sweden has been negotiating. The government has received the result from the Swedish negotiation, which has worked on exactly the directives it received from the alliance government. This is what we need to discuss about the future. You can respond more positively than I have heard Jessica Rosencrantz do so far. Reacting to climate change by saying that we need to keep speed limits on the motorway means that I think there are some gaps in how things relate to greenhouse gases, transport and climate. That is something you should take to heart and try to do something about. Tomorrow I will participate in Sweden's Byggindustrier's discussion on this.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-662	Madam President, I would like Five years ago, at about the same time as now – perhaps a little closer to the summer, looking out – we also debated rail and public transport issues in this House. I said something with which I would like to begin my speech today. I quote myself, ‘The climate challenge is the most important political task of our time.' We must realise that it is high time we reduced greenhouse gas emissions in order to minimise our footprint for the future. Transport accounts for a very large part of today's emissions, but at the same time we cannot dress in sackcloth and ashes and live as if it were ancient times. We need transport, not least because it is an important part of human freedom that we can move easily, sustainably and safely. – – – But it should also be 中 good to travel, as we say in Värmland. It should always be first class in public transport. ––– Therefore, the basis of the Social Democratic policy for sustainable freedom is a transport system characterised by ecological, economic and social sustainability. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is still the case today, but a great deal has happened since then. This applies not least to the global Paris Agreement of December 2015, which we have then broken down into national targets in our country. For transport, it is about reducing traffic emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. The year 2030 is coming. It's only three terms away. Relying on the fact that competition in the market is going to achieve emission reductions is not enough; it is not enough. The reduction obligation for fuel producers and investment in innovations in the automotive industry such as electric cars etc. is not enough either. Before they have any effect, time has run away from us. Those of us who sit in the country's highest decision-making body must take political responsibility and steer development. We need to help change the behaviours by directing to travelling more climate-smart along with public transport, or perhaps completely refrain from a trip and instead arrange a meeting with video and why not go and ride more. I very much hope that you, sitting in this Chamber today, will agree with me on this. The overall goal is that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Madam President, I would like We tend to argue that the whole country should live. It is now time to reverse the concept: everyone should be able to live throughout the country. But a vibrant country also requires sustainable cities and proximity to them. Once again, we come to the transport issue. For you to be able to live wherever you want and work with what you can, it should be easy to travel to and from, and also easy to travel climate smart. I believe that this approach has been increasingly implemented in the proposals for planning and investment in infrastructure that are presented around the country. Not least the report of the Swedish hearing has that approach. Not only are we building roads and railways, but we are building communities with good access to work, housing, schools and services, etc. Then it has to work all the way. Madam President, I would like Imagine how easy it is to take the car. You have your card. You get in the car, you put your seat belt on and you make sure it's fueled. The same fuel applies all the way. It is the same rules, red to stop, green to drive, hasty restrictions, road signs etc. It is easy to stop on petrol-laden ions and refill with fuel or have a cup of coffee, and going to the toilet is usually free. You find the best way with GPS. This applies regardless of whether you are in our beautiful Värmland, Stockholm or lovely Härjedalen or in any other country in Europe. You recognize yourself. It's like home. When trouble comes, it's reported clearly on the radio. They even break the Melodiskryset to tell us that there are queues, accidents and other obstacles in road traffic. But if you are travelling by public transport, you need to know, depending on where you are, where and how to pay for your trip. You have to keep track of that you buy the right ticket and ride with the right operator. Finding connections is not easy. Is that clear signage? No. If there are changes in the traffic range, you can be grateful if it is advertised on any display and hope that it is complete and that it is not obscured by the sun. You can't travel with the same card everywhere, and the rules are definitely not the same. Just take this with age limits and pensioner discounts and more! It sometimes gets so complicated that I understand that some are abstaining, as this is not synchronised. Madam President, I would like It must be easier to take the bus, train or any other means of public transport – even for those who are not used. It should be easy to do the right thing even there. It is a prerequisite for us to see a doubling of public transport, as so many have done. Cooperation between regional public transport authorities across county boundaries is becoming increasingly important in linking study and labour market regions with rural and sparsely populated areas, and it must be easier to commute and carry out daily trips. I therefore very much hope for the initiatives taken by the government with the next generation of travel and transport cooperation programme. It aims to develop and modernise public transport into the new concept of mobility as a service, also known as combined mobility. I know that the industry and the authorities are carefully reading our reports to see if anything has changed, and it has. The writings that are now available regarding tickets require action to be taken – otherwise the government will do so. Maybe Nina should listen a little extra now. If the issue is not resolved on a voluntary basis, consideration should also be given to imposing obligations on public transport operators and other operators to provide their ticket sales of a wide range of products through a national access point. I hope to stand here again soon and say: We have made a difference. Madam President, I would like The government makes a difference. We give priority to initiatives that provide more jobs and increased growth. Therefore, we invest in reliable and well-functioning transport systems. We invest in new tracks and roads that lead to more housing, better freight transport and more reliable work commuting. Delays and disruptions in rail traffic must be met with a substantial increase in rail maintenance, as we are doing. In total, we will increase railway maintenance by SEK 40 billion for the years 2018–2029, which is an increase of 47 percent compared to what it was like during the previous government. We Social Democrats take responsibility for building but also for ensuring that it works. I take the opposition's reservations as meaning that competition on the tracks is all you have to come up with. We have tried that melody during your years in the government and noticed that it does not work. That's why we commissioned the government to investigate how it can be done better. Madam President, I would like A year ago, the Finnish Transport Agency proposed possible measures to organise and maintain the state network and the machinery they need to own and manage. At that time, the Swedish Transport Administration was also given the task of taking urgent steps to organise and carry out delivery follow-up and manual maintenance inspection activities in terms of railway maintenance. During a visit to Trafikverket, the Transport Committee received information about this work. In view of the extensive disruptions in rail traffic, as many have described today, it is quite clear that rail maintenance needs to be improved and that control needs to be increased. I would like to point out that it is essential that maintenance activities are organised in such a way as to maximise the benefits of the funds provided for the operation and maintenance of the railways. It is therefore gratifying that the government continues to strengthen the state control of railway maintenance and to transfer Infranord's basic maintenance of the railway to Trafikverket – this to ensure day-to-day operation and the punctuality and robustness of the railway. Another electoral promise will be able to be ticked off, as we felt that increased government responsibility for railway maintenance was one of the cornerstones for achieving better punctuality and stability in our rail system. Exactly when the change is to be implemented is investigated. But whatever the time comes, I am sure that all taxpayers will be willing to do this, even if the Alliance does not. And I, along with others, both travellers and freight buyers, agree that the train should go like the train, i.e. at the right time. Madam President, I would like I almost forgot to say that I naturally support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. We have been involved in deciding on the European railway package – we are now on the fourth. It takes time for all the legal acts to be in place. The Swedish Transport Agency is now working to implement the package. It will be completed in June 2019. The work is extensive and takes place in different ways – nationally and internationally. Although Sweden is on the edge of the EU, we are on to build a unified rail system within Europe. It brings us closer together. Work on the railway package aims to increase rail efficiency and competitiveness in relation to other modes of transport. Most important is what comes out of it: that it will be easier to take the train down to the rest of Europe for both goods and peoples. This work has also led the government to review the structure of the railway legislation, fully in accordance with the recommendations of the latest railway investigation. Finally, I will talk about public transport available to people with disabilities. Everyone's supposed to be able to live in the whole country. It's everybody's. Then you should have public transport for everyone. There are specific rules for some people who have a greater need – for transport services. It has to work better. It makes no sense that, while we are discussing railway packages within the EU to enable more people to travel, we are cutting down customs bars for some others. Let me take an example. I met Nenne and Lena Sahlström, who told me that it is okay to go on a trip from Torsby to, for example, the airports Landvetter or Arlanda, which are 400 km away. But when it comes to the much closer to Gardermoen airport in Norway, which is only 14 km from Torsby, it is a quick stop, even though it would be cheaper for the state and be much more comfortable for Nenne. Transport service is a must when electric wheelchairs and other medical equipment are included, but it is forbidden to travel across the national borders. This is not good enough. Everyone would benefit from an exception rule that allows you to travel across the national border. I think we should get back to work on that. Madam President, I would like It is about universally designed stations and interchange points, about better vehicle adaptation and about information. Remember that what is necessary for some to be able to use public transport makes it easier for everyone – it concerns elevators, escalators, clear signs and more. I want to finish as I started. The climate challenge is the most important political task of our time to adopt. Everyone should be able to choose the most climate-smart way to travel, because it is easy to travel.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-689	Madam President, I would like There were beautiful quotes from Heaters from Lars Mejern Larsson in the speaker's chair. My analysis of why the government now so rapidly renationalises and thus creates a more inefficient maintenance plan for the Swedish railway is thus confirmed. It's based on an election promise. Thank you for being so clear, Lars Meyer! This is not a science or analysis in any government investigation, but it is issued election pledges. That, however, did not prompt me to ask for the floor. I agree with Lars Mejern Larsson's opening and closing quotes on climate responsibility and would like to put a question to Lars Mejern Larsson on behalf of one of the two government parties. At the moment, the national transport plan is being prepared at the Government Office, Ministry of Enterprise, under Tomas Eneroth's leadership. It will include a proposal on how the transport infrastructure should be dimensioned up to 2029. That is how far the plan extends, which includes SEK 700 billion. There is a joint decision in this House that by 2030 we should have achieved a 70% reduction in climate emissions from traffic. My question to Lars Mejern Larsson as representative of the Social Democrats in this debate is: In what way do the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party in the Cooperation Government intend to make any decision in the national plan that will soon be presented? 70 % reduction, we fully agree, is a necessity to cope with the orb. By 2040 we shall have reached even further. But how are the fine quotes that Lars Mejern Larsson started and concluded his speech translated into practical action in the preparatory work currently under way in the Government Office?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-694	Madam President, I would like Yeah, it's an election promise. It is also a wise electoral promise, and that is even better. We fully agree on the 70% target. We are simply going to make it possible for more people to travel collectively. We will present the proposal more closely when the national plan comes.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-696	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrat Lars Mejern Larsson does not get away so easily. Part of the national plan is also how the new main roads – high-speed trains, Sweden negotiations or what we choose to call them – will be implemented. D e directive given by the government by the then Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson – I have not understood that Tomas Eneroth has any others – prompted the Swedish Transport Administration to present a proposal for a national plan which means that the new main roads are being built at a pace that will allow my soon newborn grandchildren in Gothenburg to step on a train on the new main rail system in 2090. She or he is then 70 years old. Does Lars Mejern Larsson think that it is a reasonable tempo to meet the challenges of the future regarding climate, the need for collective travel, the need to create space in the main rail system for freight transport and so on? Does Lars Mejern Larsson, representative of the Social Democrats, one of the government parties, believe in the debate that it is a reasonable ambition for a newly born Gothenburger in 2090 to be able to travel the entire route Stockholm – Gothenburg and further out into the world or the country, when we should have achieved a 70% reduction by 2030? Does Lars Mejern Larsson believe in the opening and closing quotes he just made?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-699	Madam President, I would like I'm far from satisfied. I'd like to bet even more, but that's where we landed. We have presented a bag of money that represents an increase in ambition and contains 100 billion more than you have previously had in your budget. We will come back to what projects it is when we present the national plan.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-701	Madam President, I would like Lars Mejern Larsson from the Social Democrats did an interesting exposé on the importance of ensuring that, just as I was on the subject, one should be able to travel collectively. It is sustainable and climate smart to be able to do so and to facilitate it. At the same time, on the basis of the debate we had on the letter on the planning period 2018-2029, we know that no matter how much we wish for different things, we must relate to a reality, namely the financing of what we want to achieve. I can sometimes be concerned when I see what it looks like in the country. We have an infrastructure that you cannot afford to maintain. We have the so-called low-traffic railways, which are also part of the railways, where there is traffic, but where we cannot really get all the benefits that we should be able to get because it has not been prioritised. It is ultimately a resource issue, because there are no funds for this. We also hear from many players in the industry that a new signalling system is being introduced for which the price tag is around 30 billion. There are lots of implementation challenges and problems with the system. It is also part of EU cooperation. Denmark has had its system delayed. You really build it all from scratch and do not know what the price tag will look like in the long term. Friend of order wonders if you should still not calm down a little. We in the Liberals have said: let us pause and wait for a mature system because of the problems that exist with this system and also the experience of the outside world. Then my question to Lars Mejern Larsson is: What measures are you and you prepared to contribute to waiting for and using the money in a wiser way in the meantime?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-706	Madam President, I would like The first question I ask myself is what a pause would mean. How much would it cost the taxpayer? We follow and stick to the plan drawn up by the previous government. We need to improve the system in order to increase punctuality and get a better railway in Sweden.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-708	Madam President, I would like Those who are knowledgeable in the field have a number of different suggestions on how to resolve the issue. For example, the system that already exists could be developed. You can prepare it for an ERTMS introduction. There are those who believe that you should wait with Ertms Level 2 because there will be a Level 3. You will then be able to solve a number of implementation problems. When it comes to 30 billion SEK, plus switchboard costs in maybe as much, I think you should consider whether this is the smartest way. I am also following the debate in other countries, where it is now noted that there have been delays because there are huge challenges with this. I might think it's important to think about how to use the money. I also note that the majority of the committee in the report does not concern the fact that the National Audit Office is in the process of examining the implementation. Their mission is to see how to live up to the demand for savings from state resources. Let us assume that there is something new and interesting there, while it is a planning period to be decided by the Riksdag when the government comes with its letter. Since there are other technical possibilities to make use of it in the meantime, is there not reason to consider how the enormous amount of money can be spent if problems turn out to continue? Wouldn't it be wise to think about another lap? We in the Liberals think that we have to do this if we are really to save the money and use the tax money effectively. Now that there are other options, why not consider them for the time being?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-711	Madam President, I would like I am very confident that, as the report says, the Finnish Transport Agency is conducting a dialogue with railway undertakings on the Ertms project and the technical equipment. In the ongoing action plan in the framework of the national transport plan, reconciliations will be carried out continuously on a number of occasions. From the committee, we have stressed the importance of taking advantage of the experience gained from the work on Ertms in order to ensure that the system is implemented as smoothly and cost-effectively as possible, so I feel secure.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-714	Madam President, I would like Days like these with harsh weather and cold provide a good framework for today's energy debate. The energy issue is not only about finding the most environmentally smart solutions, it is also about ensuring that the lights always shine, that computers can always be started and that machines in industry can always continue to produce. It is important for Sweden's competitiveness and business and people's everyday lives. Sweden may be a small country to the population, but Sweden is an extremely large country to the surface. Most of the electricity generation is in northern Sweden, while most of the electricity consumption is in southern Sweden. This difference will become even more apparent with further closures of nuclear reactors in southern Sweden. It also leads to a higher proportion of volatile electricity production and a decreasing share of base power, which places high demands on Svenska Kraftnät's ability to maintain the power balance in the grid. For this reason, the Swedish Parliament decided in June on an announcement in which the Swedish power grid is given an even more extensive task to analyse the power situation. That announcement has been pushed by Moderates, and we hope that the government will continue to take the announcement seriously and follow it up. On several occasions, the Moderates have also highlighted the need to shorten the processing times for network investments. Sweden's competitiveness is threatened by new economies that are growing rapidly. At the same time, it takes up to ten years for the network expansion required for a new industrial company to establish itself here. In ten years China has doubled the size of its economy. So the whole gross domestic product has been doubled. It's the same time it takes to expand a network investment. Every extension should of course take place in a legally secure manner, carefully analysed from a societal perspective and in consultation with relevant stakeholders. But ten years is actually an eternity today. Although the government has set aside funds to shorten processing times, requirements are also needed to ensure that carrots are effective. We therefore want to see sharper measures to shorten the processing times for network investments. It is also in line with another announcement that the Riksdag has approved, i.e. that authorities that are in contact with companies should also have time limits for their processing times. In several chamber debates on energy, I have pointed out that there is a need for us in Sweden to become more global in our energy policy and more technology positive. It does not matter if we are the best in the climate class here at home if we do not have the ability to export ideas and technology to other countries. The climate issue is global, and the energy issue is crucial. The Moderates therefore have several claims aimed at raising their eyes and strengthening Sweden's ability to export clean electricity and energy technology to other countries. One is to further push for a single European energy market with a common long-term playing field. Another is to set up a competitiveness inquiry to analyse how the Swedish electricity market stands today from an international perspective, including reviewing future transmission needs. We all need to raise our eyes if we are to make a real difference to the climate issue. Another issue that I will come back to, and which I will continue to come back to, is knowledge. Knowledge is also power. Knowledge of all our forces is important. Therefore, we Moderates once again call for research funding to go to all our great strengths. I have come back to this issue before, and I will come back to it again, but I cannot understand how we can say no to more knowledge. No matter where you see nuclear power in the future, no matter what you think of the power race and no matter what you use the knowledge base, it should be in everyone's interest that there is as large a knowledge base as possible. The report we are debating today touches on many scattered issues. However, I would like to conclude by saying that the report in summary is about one thing, namely competitiveness. Do we want to be a nation where it is easy or difficult to move a business or open a new industry? Do we want to turn inward into energy policy or change globally through the export of both electricity and energy technology? In answer to the questions, we highlight clear claims and clear proposals to secure electricity supply and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. In view of this, I request, for time winning, consent only to reservations 2 and 3.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-724	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is today debating the report on certain electricity market issues. In this debate, it is well suited to dwell on the security of supply in our Swedish power system when winter makes itself at its best reminded and when the need for effect is also greatest. In this report, as in previous years, the Swedish Democrats have proposed to phase out the electricity certification system in order to increase market-economy mechanisms and reduce the political governance of the electricity market. As a result of the energy policy in place, huge investments are now required in the electricity grids, as new subsidised production capacity is being pushed into the Swedish power system. At the same time, of course, reinvestment is also needed, which has started to reach a more normalised level. But almost half of the SEK 45 billion that will need to be invested in the Swedish core networks over the next ten years is due to needs based on system reinforcements and market integration. This tempts Swedish power grid's financial ratios properly, and indebtedness is escalating faster and faster. In order to finance the greatly increased investment rate, it is expected that the charge for the power charge will have to be doubled over the same period. In its system development plan, Swedish power networks have made a brief comment about their financial position in relation to the investment needs: The financial ratios for a private company would indicate an unhealthy financial position, and it would be difficult and costly for the work to finance the investments unless Swedish power networks were part of the state and can borrow from the National Debt Office. The irony of the whole is the genuine lack of financial incentives in several stages. The energy policy pursued creates a need for network reinforcements due to the subsidy-driven expansion of production capacity – in order to export production at a price well below the actual cost of production to other countries. This is something that is not sustainable in the long term. Madam President, I would like The power balance in Sweden has been strong for a long time. It has only been due to the large-scale expansion of hydroelectric power and later also to the investment in nuclear power. This has contributed to the fact that Sweden, as one of few nations, is not dependent on fossil-based power generation. Despite this, several parties in this House are raising the need for an energy transition for Sweden, as is being discussed at European and global level. But Sweden's power system does not need an energy shift. We already have a power system characterised by a high capacity factor, zero greenhouse gas emissions and a high level of security of supply. It is understandable, however, whether there is an energy shift on the agenda at global and European level because the power supply there is exclusively fossil-based. But an energy transition in Sweden will instead mean that we generally get a lower capacity factor, increased greenhouse gas emissions from the Swedish power system and reduced security of supply. For the Swedish Democrats, it is incredible with what power and speed one tries to ruin something that has served Sweden and our industry so well for so long. Madam President, I would like As you know, Sweden now has a negative power balance for what you call a ten-year winter. According to the power balance calculation that the Swedish power network performs for each winter, we will in the next few years get negative power balance even for a normal winter. This may be the first time that we have ever been in that situation. This is happening at an increasing pace, and politics has contributed to the constant upswing of it. If you also refer this to the Swedish power network's system development plan, you can see that several warning fingers are lifted on this expert authority when it comes to security of supply. For electricity areas SE3 and SE4 in southern Sweden, it is estimated that when nuclear power is phased out in 2040, which was the goal of the parties that were part of the Energy Commission and had a joint agreement, the number of hours with power shortages will be on average 400 per year. Even for extreme weather years, especially dry years, the scenario shows that a significantly higher number of hours with lack of efficacy will exist. We are therefore talking about, on average, almost half a month a year, when the possibilities of households and industry will be limited by the forces of the weather. This is supposed to be a scenario for the future. For me, it feels more like a look back to the conditions one had in Sweden during the 19th century, when one had to hold back and rely on the forces of the weather in order to develop the economy. It is clear that greater energy should be put into producing an effect when we ask for it and not the other way round. Efforts are needed to ensure that our power system continues to be characterised in the future by the same high quality of power and good operational security as it is today. We therefore want to see a target for security of supply set as the energy policy pursued, which should be more relevant than a target for the composition of the Swedish power system. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 4 of the report.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-739	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 and reservation 5. Sweden is a country with a large distance, and the majority of electricity production takes place in northern Sweden while the majority of electricity is consumed in southern Sweden. That is why we will need good transmission capacity. A robust electricity grid is crucial for Sweden to have a secure electricity supply. Swedish companies and consumers should continue to be able to rely on secure electricity supply, long-term rules of play and stable conditions in the energy market. In the energy agreement, we also agreed that transmission capacity will need to increase both within the country and towards our neighbours. Madam President, I would like One of the biggest threats to the 100% renewable transition is not about production but about the lead times for building new pipelines, which are very long. That's what we heard here earlier. My colleague Sofi a Fölster said that it can take up a decade from Swedish power networks deciding to invest to the cable being connected to the network. That's completely unreasonable. Shortening the processing times is a prerequisite for meeting the Energy Commission's target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. Madam President, I would like In this work, it is extremely important to take account of ownership, of people who are concerned by the social interest in drawing electricity lines and then have their land affected. The Swedish National Audit Office has criticised Swedish power networks for working with transparency and dialogue. It is probably the greatest understatement in this House to say that it has been flawed. The Government must commission Svenska Kraftnät to develop its dialogue and take local interests seriously. Reducing the number of appeals and increasing the acceptance of the electricity grids that need to be built is an important part of reducing the long lead times. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we see that there are places where you scream for new cables but where Swedish power grids instead have scrapped their plans. Gotland's potential as an energy producer is the clearest example. Gotland has great potential to build more renewable electricity production. However, due to the fact that the Swedish power grid stopped the work started by the Alliance government to build a cable from Gotland to the mainland, this power generation cannot be transferred from the island. The government has almost literally thrown millions of dollars into planning in the lake. Why hasn't the government acted? Well, that's a question. Madam President, I would like Electricity lines are not just about large-scale projects with broad power grids. An important measure to increase the share of locally produced electricity is the possibility for house owners and property owners to draw electricity lines between the properties. Today, a property owner cannot optimise its own solar power production by putting solar cells on the property that has the best solar location. According to current regulations, the electricity produced must not be transferred between buildings. It prevents you from sharing a solar panel with your neighbor on the most suitable roof. The same applies if a residential block decides to build a common solar park on the sunniest surface and pull its own electricity line to share the electricity produced. All production of electricity that requires a so-called micro-network between buildings or buildings is prevented by regulations in the Electricity Act because it requires network concession to build strong power lines. Here I would like to highlight the Center Party's proposal for solar pools where you can share a solar panel with the neighbor and pull a cable from the neighbor's roof if the neighbor happens to have a better solar position. The fact that it is not allowed today is, in fact, absurd. Madam President, I would like In many ways electricity grid issues do not differ from other business issues. They are filled with heavy bureaucracy and rules that hinder development. For us in the Center Party it is obvious to clear the rule jungle and help the green transition. Not least all those who want to make their own contribution with solar panels on the roofs need to have rules that are understandable and relevant. Sweden needs a new green leadership that sees the whole country, from Gotland's wind turbines to the solar panels on the roof of Bengtsfors and the hydroelectric power plants in Skellefte River, and which provides the conditions for development. It stands for the Center Party.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-754	Madam President, I would like The Swedish electricity network is built up by three different levels: local grids, regional grids and core networks. If one were to extend the Swedish electricity grid in a single long line, it would last more than 14 laps around the world. The core network is owned by the state and managed by the Swedish power network. Instead, the regional and local networks are managed through so-called concessions, i.e. the state has given an operator the opportunity to operate, maintain and manage the network. The regional networks are mainly owned by three companies: Eon, Vattenfall and Ellevio. There are about 160 local electricity grid companies in Sweden, but how large areas they handle varies greatly. Some small companies manage only a few kilometers of management, while others own thousands of miles. It is now 20 years since the electricity market in Sweden was liberalised. The aim was to increase competition in electricity supply. It would lead to lower prices, it was said then. However, we can see that liberalisation has, on the contrary, led to significantly higher charges. Private electricity grid companies are currently allowed to set very high charges. Fees also vary widely across the country. In addition, the process is characterised by frequent appeals by companies in order to increase profits. Networking is a so-called natural monopoly and, with the liberalised market and inadequate regulation, private companies are given great leeway. Electricity network charges charged by electricity grid companies are largely determined by where you live, and it can distinguish thousands of crowns. Despite the energy agreement between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, no response to the rising electricity grid charges has been presented. In a situation where both ordinary households and Swedish industry can be hit hard by further increases, you choose to let the market handle the matter. To date, this has only led to higher electricity prices for both households and industry. Greater political responsibility is needed to counter the excessive price increases for consumers. The legislation governing the revenue framework is currently too arbitrary. The Electricity Act should therefore be amended to counter unfair price increases for consumers. It is unreasonable that there should be such large differences in network charges between cities and countries in Sweden, between regions and between different companies. It can vary as much as SEK 7,370 per year between the same households depending on whether you live in Grums in Värmland or Ljungby in Småland. Raising electricity grid charges not only hit households hard, but also hit industry and, by extension, also the economy and our jobs. There is also a risk that the necessary switch to a safer and more reliable electricity network will not take place at the necessary pace, since the various companies have different economic conditions, i.e. that they do too much in profit. In order to ensure the availability of electricity, an electricity network is required that is adapted to the needs that exist. It is clear that profit-maximizing companies have no interest in keeping prices down or taking into account the social impact of increased charges. To this end, more uniform electricity grid tariffs should be introduced to offset the inequalities currently affecting rural areas. The extension of main grids for electricity in Sweden is greatly lagging behind, and large parts of the existing grid need to be renewed. In Svenska Kraftnät's perspective plan 2025, the need for investments and reinvestments is estimated to amount to SEK 55-60 billion until 2025. By way of comparison, the investments made between 2000 and 2011 amounted to only SEK 10.6 billion. Today there is a major problem with bottlenecks in the transmission of electricity to consumers through the electricity grids. A lack of transmission capacity between price areas 2 and 3 means that we cannot make full use of the energy from our rivers or the storage capacity provided by hydropower. This means that the surplus from the northern part of the country cannot benefit the southern parts sufficiently. As new wind turbines connect to the grid, today's problems worsen. Particularly worrying is that today's electricity grid is not enough for the expansion of wind power in northern Sweden to benefit the whole country. It is often easier to obtain permits for the expansion of wind turbines in the northern part of the country. In order to increase electricity generation in southern Sweden, both the abolition of the municipal veto and the expansion of offshore wind power are important. A change in the electricity certification system that also takes into account the balance of power could also be a step in the right direction. However, it is of the utmost importance that the network capacity be expanded so that the electricity can be transferred to southern Sweden, where it is consumed. It should therefore be assigned to Swedish power networks to prioritise the planned reinforcements of the core network. In order to secure electricity supply throughout the country, renewable energy needs to be expanded to a greater extent also in southern Sweden. There, offshore wind power will play a major role. The expansion of wind power on Gotland is also an opportunity that should not be underestimated. However, a key to enabling such an extension is a well-functioning transmission capacity. The work on the planned power cable between Gotland and the mainland has been interrupted by the Swedish power grid. It is a mistake that risks hindering important deployment of renewable energy. In addition, the security of electricity for the whole of Gotland is at risk, as has not least been proven by the summer's extensive power outage. Swedish power networks' actions are short-term and a step in the wrong direction. The government should therefore instruct the Swedish power grid in its regulation letter to build the planned power cable to Gotland. In this context, the importance of a Nordic consensus on cross-border transmission capacity should also be mentioned. The review of Svenska Kraftnät's economic targets under way within the Government Office is expected to form the basis for new return targets. In a situation where Swedish power networks face major investment needs, it is not reasonable to pay hundreds of millions each year to the state. The owner directives for the Swedish power network should be clear in that the public benefit should be before profit distribution. The state process for core network conc essences needs to be speeded up. Today, the authorisation process for the core network takes an unreasonable amount of time. The bottlenecks in the electricity grid and the slow licensing process are two of the problems the Swedish National Audit Office highlights in its report. The reasons for the problems identified by the Swedish National Audit Office include the previous government's inaction in the governance of the Swedish power grid, its lack of feedback to the Riksdag about the reasons for the unfulfilled investment plans of the Swedish power grid and the lack of common guidelines for the county boards for their efforts in the licensing process for core networks. The government should therefore instruct the responsible authorities to investigate the possibilities of a faster licensing process for core network concessions. On this point, today we have a common reservation with the bourgeois parties. Madam President, I would like Electricity production needs to be seen as part of society's infrastructure, which we jointly build on societal goals. For the Left Party, it is essential that the electricity grid is owned by society through, for example, the state or the municipality. The technological transformation of the energy system with small-scale energy production means that the energy consumers of the future will at the same time become the energy producers of the future. Therefore, the network that links them together needs to be owned by the public and not limited by private profit interests. Liberalisation has not led either to lower prices or to greater security for consumers. It's just the opposite. It is clear that the Swedish electricity market needs to be fundamentally redesigned. The government should therefore investigate the possibility of making the electricity grid community-owned. I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 6.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-771	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with a large distance and where electricity generation and consumption occur to a large extent in completely different places in the country. Most of the electricity production takes place in the north, but most of the electricity is consumed in southern Sweden. Unfortunately, we have insufficient transmission capacity. Together with the requirements for smart grids, this places great demands on the Swedish electricity grids. It is therefore necessary to develop the networks to the extent and speed required to cope with power transmission and new requirements for a sustainable society. During the last Parliamentary Session, we have therefore expressed our view on several occasions in the Alliance that shorter processing times for network concessions are an important prerequisite for electricity networks to be able to expand to meet current and future challenges. We note that the Swedish Energy Market Authority has received increased resources to shorten processing times and also a commission to report to the Government on how to work with the issue. However, we would like to emphasise that the excessively long processing times we see today are still a major obstacle to the development of the Swedish electricity network. Until real results are achieved, we continue to see a reason for the Riksdag to point out to the Government that processing times must be shorter. As stated in our motion 3413, we believe that the government should instruct the responsible authorities to investigate the possibility of a faster permit process. Madam President, I would like The alliance's starting point is that Sweden will have a robust energy system, where Swedish companies and consumers will continue to be able to rely on secure electricity supply, long-term rules of play and stable conditions in the energy market. Swedish energy policy should protect the climate, be ecologically sustainable, secure electricity at competitive prices and ensure that electricity is there when we need it. A safe and robust power transmission is absolutely crucial. Swedish power networks are responsible for maintaining the power balance in the network, which is a prerequisite for our industry, our jobs and our competitiveness. A few years ago several of us here had the opportunity to visit SSAB in Borlänge. As we walked around among the huge steel rollers, we were told that only 0.1 seconds of power outages lead to several tons of steel being destroyed and millions of dollars lost. In other words, the balance of effects is important. In connection with network investments, different interests are sometimes set against each other, and we therefore, like what is expressed in motion 3413, want the Riksdag to announce to the Government that it should ensure that the Swedish power grid develops its dialogue and consultations and increases transparency in connection with investment projects. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-778	Madam President, I would like Today, it is very much a matter of shortening processing times in different areas. This is strange, one might think, when there has been talk of service guarantees, so that municipalities can deal with matters for their citizens more quickly. But shorter processing times for network concessions, for example, seem to be an infinitely difficult task, despite the fact that the Swedish Energy Market Authority has received increased resources to do just that. If this is an obstacle to the development of the Swedish electricity network, it is clear that there are capacity problems. If we take train traffic as an example, or if more people buy electric vehicles and charge them at home and so on, we see that there is a capacity problem that will affect us all – if it does not already. Until real results are actually achieved, we in the Alliance still see reason to point out to the government that processing times need to be shortened. It must be possible to have a faster state-of-the-art process. It is also, of course, about the fact that in this case Swedish power networks should develop their dialogue in the consultations carried out around the country in connection with expansion and investment projects. With regard to the South-West Link, which is the largest investment ever made in this area and which will increase transmission capacity in southern Sweden by 25 per cent, there are of course many routes on the road that have been consulted but where people do not feel completely satisfied with the results. We also emphasise that Swedish power grids are happy to use a little more tools in their dialogue, to reduce people's concerns about different things in relation to these projects. Some of my colleagues have spoken about Gotland's electricity supply, and I would also like to mention it because it is written about it in the Christian Democrats' energy movement. We know that access to electricity all day long, all year round requires stable electricity grids and connections between the mainland and the islands. I think we were all a few cases that were quite surprised when the Swedish power network announced that the third electricity connection to Gotland would not be built. The Energy Authority stated that the island will be completely self-sufficient in electricity and that in 20 years' time there will be no need for a power line between the island and the mainland. In spring 2018, the agency will present a study on how Gotland will become an independent electricity producer. But it is also true that in other contexts we think that 20 years is quite a long time. I can understand those who are concerned about the activities on Gotland – primarily, but also, of course, elsewhere in the country – when they are told that planned investments will not be carried out. It is therefore, of course, important that access to electricity is clearly understood. I very much look forward to the agency's accounting for how this is to be done. We all know, not least those of us who participate during Almedalsveckan, how incredibly many people there are in the summer. Of course, there are much smaller people in the winter, but regardless of whether you look at the residents or the visitors, you really should take into account that there should be both a long-term and a short-term perspective in the solution to the issue. This applies not least to Gotland's electricity supply, but also to electricity supply throughout the country.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-784	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating certain electricity market issues. We have put an end to 30 years of political disagreement on energy policy through a broad energy agreement supported by 75% of the members of Parliament. Cooperation is the key – and not only between the parties in the Swedish Parliament. Sweden has an important role to play in bringing countries closer to each other in energy policy. Individuals and companies are important players in an energy-smart society. We must strengthen the individual's ability to influence and be part of the energy system. Therefore, the government has made it easier and cheaper than ever to invest in solar electricity, for example. But we also need to protect the rights of the individual and strengthen the customer's position in the electricity market. Developments are in many ways positive. Electric vehicles revolutionise the transport sector, and renewable electricity generation is the cheapest source of energy in many parts of the world. With the right politics and creative companies, Sweden has great opportunities to lead global development. This applies to everything from sustainable heavy industry to smart IT solutions that improve people's everyday lives. Smart energy solutions in properties create better indoor climate, better lighting and safer homes. Small-scale production of electricity can soon take place almost anywhere – on cars, in clothing and on tools. It creates opportunities for efficient use of electricity as an energy source. We will export tomorrow's smart energy solutions, not emissions. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I will try to comment on the motions, which in many cases are opening doors. As regards the issues of shorter processing times and simplifying the licensing process, the Swedish Energy Market Authority has been given additional resources to shorten processing times. Other authorities have also been given the task of shortening their processing times. When it comes to Swedish grid dialogue and consultation in connection with investments, this issue was addressed as late as spring 2017. In this respect, it can be noted that the Government agrees that transparency and dialogue with relevant stakeholders are important when planning investments in the core network. Swedish power networks have developed their way of working with consultation processes, and the Swedish Energy Market Authority will take into account both the content of the environmental impact assessment and the results of the consultation prior to the decision on the concession. Mr President, I would like to With regard to other motions on the electricity market, it must first be mentioned that a comprehensive review of Swedish energy policy is currently under way. It is the broad energy agreement, and it is the Energy Commission's power pool for the energy of the future that contributes to this. The Government returns to the Riksdag with a proposal to establish the energy policy objectives. Many of the motion requests that we have to consider in this report concern the Energy Commission's proposal, which is now under preparation. Questions about the future of electricity supply, competition aspects for Swedish industry and individual power teams are addressed in the Energy Commission's report. The Government's objective for the electricity market policy is to achieve an efficient electricity market with well-functioning competition that provides secure access to electricity at internationally competitive prices. The Energy Commission also deals with system services, power balances and the electricity certification system. The Swedish Energy Market Authority has been tasked with identifying and proposing guidelines for socio-economic profitability assessments and its effects. The Government returns in terms of power analysis and Svenska Kraftnät's mission to maintain the balance of power. As regards the production of renewable electricity, the electricity certification system is an important instrument. The expansion Parliament decided in 2017 is very important in order to further stimulate the expansion of renewable electricity production. Proposals shall be made to increase transparency in the electricity licensing market. In the case of electricity grid charges, there is reason to ensure that the return on electricity grid companies is at a reasonable level. The Energy Market Inspectorate's proposal in this area is now being prepared in the Government Office. Price differences between electricity areas are expected to be evened out further now that, following regrettable delays, the Southwest link will be put into operation in the spring. As regards Gotland's electricity supply, I would like to refer to what was said on this issue in autumn 2017. At that time the committee noted that the Swedish power network has interrupted the planning of a new connection to Gotland and that the government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate how Gotland can model a renewable and self-sufficient energy system. Sweden must have a secure energy supply throughout the country and continue to have good conditions for the expansion of renewable energy. On the question of share ownership, green electricity agreements and more, there is a study that looks at issues such as tax reduction for micro-generation of renewable electricity and whether unit-holders should be able to take part in the tax reduction. A national forum for smart grids has been set up. It shall, inter alia, promote the development of new technologies and business models and develop an export strategy. Work is also under way to develop proposals for a new electricity market law. Questions about network expansion across Sweden's borders are also addressed in the Energy Commission's report. In the light of the ongoing integration of the Nordic and European electricity markets, there are several reasons for Sweden to support the creation of additional foreign connections. Finally, I would like to say that the Swedish electricity market is linked to the development of the electricity market in Europe. Our dependence on electricity is increasing while the electricity system must be able to handle a changed production mix. Swedish power networks are therefore planning to increase the rate of expansion significantly while making significant reinvestments. On several previous occasions, the committee has expressed its support for the completion of the internal market and has also stated that implementation is a prerequisite for the full potential of the electricity market. A well-functioning electricity market provides incentives for investment, contributes to a high level of security of supply and is a cost-effective way of achieving the EU's energy and climate goals. In conclusion, I would like to call for all motions to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-804	Mr President, I would like to It's winter for full speed. It's cold, and we have a high need for effect. The focus should be to discuss operational and delivery reliability in our Swedish power system. The balance of power has continuously deteriorated during this term of office. We have slipped down on the negative values of a so-called 10-year winter, which I mentioned in my speech. Soon we will also slip down on a negative balance of force during a normal winter. During this term of office, the government has repeatedly focused specifically on energy modes which have a lower capacity factor than the current average power system, ensuring that this will deteriorate further in the near future. All experts warn that security of supply is threatened, but the Energy Commission lands in goals for which composition we should have and does not focus on what is important to achieve in the long term. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that Sweden should have a goal for security of supply – in order to guarantee it over time – and that the policy should steer towards ensuring that we can always have electricity in the sockets and that the industry's opportunities should not be limited by the weather. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Patrik Engström why the Social Democrats do not believe that Sweden needs a target for security of supply.
i-KN7usrWaXTAu13XGWz97fi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström, for the question! The government has clearly stated the objective of electricity market policy – that there should be competitive conditions in terms of both price and security of supply. I think we have answered that question, Mattias. The Government's objective is highly relevant in this context.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-810	Mr President, I would like to It is still the case that the balance of power has deteriorated during the term of office. For example, the government has invested in a tenfold increase in support for solar cells. It has gone from the fact that biogas has received this support to the fact that it now spends almost 1 billion annually on support for solar cells. In the power balance reports produced, solar power has 0 percent operational availability. So it doesn't matter if you have 0, 1 000, 10 000 or 100 000 megawatts– it doesn't get any better for that. When the sun doesn't shine, it won't work. The power types that have been subsidised into the electricity certification system in recent years have a lower capacity factor than the average of the power system. The security of supply will therefore continue to deteriorate. More investment will be needed in our electricity grids. It will be more expensive for Swedish electricity customers, and the competitiveness of the industry will deteriorate. There is no guarantee that we will steer towards maintaining and maintaining the good operational and delivery reliability of our power system in the long term. I do not think I have received a clear answer to the question of why it is not considered that there is a need for a security of supply case. The question to Patrik Engström is whether he is not worried about the development that we can see and that will happen in the near future, as Swedish power networks are also warning about. Is this not a cause for concern to the Social Democrats?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-814	Mr President, I would like to Of course, if you look at the future, you can be concerned. Play with the idea that we will have climate change that we cannot see today – what effects would this have on our electricity supply system? Play with the thought that it stops raining! Our base power is largely hydropower – play with the idea that there will be major changes in our climate and that it will stop raining. You in the Swedish Democrats do not like the electricity certification system. You do not like the production of renewable electricity, but you have a different view. Of course, we will have to fully respect that view, but I think that everything today indicates that we will solve the challenges raised by Mattias Bäckström. Therefore, I am not worried about this aspect, but I am absolutely convinced that we will solve these problems. But it's really hard to tell about the future, about how much it will rain or blow or about something else, so there are challenges. Let's never ignore that.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-818	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to tell you that there has never before been so much investment in wind power in Sweden as in 2017. Last year, investments in wind power amounted to SEK 20 billion, a total of over 2,000 megawatts in new capacity. Thanks to the government's wind power bonus, the municipalities that have built wind power can share SEK 70 million per year. Last year's investments in wind power represent a quarter of all wind energy investments that have previously been made in Sweden. This means that wind power production is expected to increase by about 60 per cent in four years. According to the Swedish Wind Energy forecast, Sweden can reach the target that we here in Parliament decided on last year – on the production of an additional 18 terawatt hours of new renewable electricity – nine years earlier than the target. This shows that the Riksdag made the right decision when it supported a so-called linear expansion rate instead of postponing the expansion. With regard to the report that we are debating today, there are parties that want to abolish the electricity certification system, which is what ensures that we today have investments in new electricity generation in Sweden. Although the Swedish Democrats do not share my environmental commitment, there is no new electricity production that can be built as cost-effectively as we do with the electricity certification system. All international comparisons show this, and Sweden is highlighted as an example in the expansion that is now under way in a socio-economically beneficial way. Wind power is currently the most affordable electricity generation. Solar energy is also developing rapidly. As Patrik Engström said, it has never been as easy and profitable to put solar cells on their roof as it is now. The block-cross energy agreement on 100% renewable energy delivers the political security for investors that has been lacking in the past. Business as usual – to continue with the electricity system as before – is not available as an alternative. Part of existing production is not profitable for continued operation. Turning to the production of 100% renewable electricity will require major investments, but many reports – most recently one from Sweco – show that the alternative is many times more expensive. In the Energy Commission, five parties have agreed that Sweden will continue to be a net exporter of electricity. The continued rapid wind power expansion allows Sweden to continue green electricity exports despite the fact that unprofitable nuclear power is being shut down. Electricity exports are very important for reducing CO2 emissions in Europe and for achieving the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. With increased transmission capacity, Sweden and the entire Nordic region have a great potential to help the rest of Europe switch to a renewable energy system. This report contains several proposals on Gotland's electricity connections to the mainland. In a few weeks' time, at the end of March, the Swedish Energy Agency will report on the mission they received from the Government to develop a preliminary study on how Gotland can be used as a pilot in the transition to a renewable energy system in Sweden. It's going to be exciting reading. Gotland has in many ways a unique energy system for Sweden and has historically been a node for innovation, testing and commercialization of new solutions in the existing energy system. Knowledge and experience from the implementation of a smart and renewable energy system on Gotland will be important to achieve the goal of a 100% renewable electricity system in Sweden in 2040. The Swedish Energy Agency's study also carries the so-called third electricity cable to Gotland, as it affects the conditions for more sustainable energy production on Gotland. The lack of the third electricity cable makes it more difficult to export renewable electricity to the mainland. There is reason to believe that the Swedish power network's decision not to proceed with the plans for a third Gotland cable may need to be reviewed. Correct and efficient condition processes are an important building block in the creation of our future energy system. It is therefore positive that the Swedish Energy Market Authority has taken many measures to streamline licensing processes with a focus on shorter processing times. One measure is the introduction of a new process-oriented approach where there are always several administrators who are jointly responsible for a number of cases according to a structured process. Of course, the fact that more officers are working on one and the same matter means stability and that it does nothing if a case officer becomes ill, because the work can still continue. The Energy Market Inspectorate has also employed more staff. Another measure is to provide companies with better information so that they send in complete application documents from the outset. The Government allocated increased funds in the budget for the Energy Market Inspectorate to streamline the concession process. So that work continues and will continue. As I said, it is unusually cold in Sweden this week. Wind power continues to account for a relatively large part of electricity generation, and we also owe our regulatory power to hydroelectric power. Yesterday, Sweden exported 725 megawatts of electricity to our neighbouring countries according to Swedish grid statistics. A winter day like this increases electricity consumption in Sweden by about 200 megawatt hours for every degree as it gets colder. This connection is because we use electricity for heating. So far, Sweden has chosen to work with a power reserve of power plants that can be started up at short notice to meet the need for extra power cold days. Reducing the need is another possibility. To dimension the electrical system after a few days with really cold winter should be weighed against cost-effective measures to reduce power peaks or control the load. Some electricity consumption can be controlled to other hours or days with relatively simple technology. Storage technology is also interesting in this context. With today's technology, much of this can be managed automatically without the customer experiencing any change. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Energy Market Authority has produced a report on demand response that presents around 20 proposals for a smarter energy system, where customers' situation is strengthened and they have a better chance of influencing their electricity costs. These proposals are now being prepared at the Government Office, and I look forward to the Parliament being given the opportunity to decide to implement them. An important part of this is also the constant work on energy efficiency. We need to be better at doing more with less energy, and there is great technological potential. Energy efficiency is something everyone benefits from – society, the private economy and the environment.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-838	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 10 on mineral policy. I want to open up by saying that Sweden is the world leader in mineral mining. We have the world's most modern and productive mines, which are also world leaders in safety, efficiency and environmental considerations. In order to maintain this, it is important to develop mineral policy so that we continue to be leaders. When parts of the committee visited Boliden and were guided by Mats through the mine, he said: Do you smell it? This is bnp for real; here we do not sit and make websites for each other! In 2013, the mineral strategy was initiated, a method for collecting and implementing reforms for a continued world-class mineral industry. We are concerned that the government seems to have settled down and does not continue with the momentum that the mineral strategy laid the foundations for. That is why, in reservation 1 for the government, we declare that the important work on the national mineral strategy should be continued, and we therefore also call for reservation 1. The Moderates have no major objections to the construction of the current mineral composition. However, we believe that the rights of landowners should be strengthened in the event of mine failure. The bankruptcy proceedings in Pajala and Dannemora have highlighted the need for legal clarification. Both the Bergmaster and the Moderates have pointed out that the landowner's claim should be given priority in the event of bankruptcy. In this way, we want an investigation aimed at strengthening ownership and providing a reasonable return to the landowner. That is why we are in favour of reservation 6. It is good that Sweden has demanding environmental legislation when it comes to mines. But the fact that something is demanding does not mean that it must be slow and completely unpredictable. The permit process to open a mine in Sweden could be painted as a mess. At present, important investments in jobs and growth but also in the environment are prevented because of this. Therefore, we want the government to return with proposals to the Riksdag to shorten and simplify the authorisation process. Therefore, the Moderates are in favour of reservation 2, which is a common alliance. However, not everything is about opening mines– you have to run them as well. You must have people in the mines that break the minerals. You must have access to skilled labour. Working in Swedish mines is a high-tech and highly qualified profession, and at present there is a shortage of everything from welders to skilled metallurgs. To remedy this, we want the Government to come back with proposals to the Riksdag with measures to secure the supply of expertise in the mining industry. Otherwise, this risks becoming the biggest revenge for a growing mineral industry. That is why we are in favour of reservation 12. Now that our reservations are over, I would like to take this opportunity to criticise the government's somewhat depersonalised actions on these issues. R egeringen vil l increase the extraction of minerals that are necessary for modern technology, what is called rare earth minerals. Environmental technology in particular depends on many minerals that are difficult to obtain around the world. These are battery metals such as cobalt but also electric motor minerals such as neodymium magnets. There are many of these minerals in Swedish mountains, but they are not mined to any significant extent. There is one problem: these minerals often occur together with uranium. It gets a little strange when Mikael Damberg cranks about increasing the extraction of REM metals while the Ministry of Environment's Isabella Lövin cranks on on the ban on uranium. Which one do you want? A future-oriented pragmatic party that cares about the environment cannot allow ancient dogmatic positions to stand in the way of important raw materials if they are crucial to the environment and a modern society. The price of this dogmatism is paid by children who, under slave-like conditions, break these minerals in Africa. It is understandable that a nuclear sceptic party is against uranium mining. But when a simple conception turns into fanaticism, poor children suffer because they cannot be reasonably pragmatic in their solutions. The government has to make up its mind. Should Sweden be able to break these minerals, which are necessary for our electric cars, batteries and computers? Or will this fanaticism leave the walk over to the predatory drive of child labor in Africa? This is where the government owes the answer.
i-Ds4hn6p2Z14fGZ3vHms5LK	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report No 10 by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The Swedish Democrats have a committee motion called Mineral Policy for a strong mining industry. In it we highlight a number of proposals to facilitate and develop for the industry. These include targeted training efforts to meet skills needs, increased exploration on the initiative of the Swedish state, strengthened resources for geo-scientific basic research, improved transport infrastructure with several proposals. We also have a motion called The Swedish Steel. It raises questions about the challenges of the steel industry and the rest of the metal industry. Here, of course, the energy issue is one of the key points, and the current policy orientation is a direct threat to our industry. But there are also skills needs to be filled here, and we therefore propose that efforts be made to increase both the number of training places and research in the field of metallurgy. The mining industry and the steel industry are different industries with partly different needs. However, they still largely belong to the same value chain, which is why I think it is relevant to also address the steel industry's conditions. I have done so before when we have debated mineral policy. Last year I pulled about the same things and raised the large export value of Sweden's iron, steel and other metals, which then amounted to as much as SEK 88 billion. Given that the steel industry accounts for close to 7% of our goods exports, it is surprising that the Swedish Democrats are the only party in this House that thinks that the industry is important enough to highlight in a motion. Perhaps you think it is better for China or any other country to take over our steel industry so that you can go to the UN and show how good you are at saving the climate or the like. The only problem is that Sweden has the world's most low-emission mining and steel industry, so when the political slump that drives industry out of the country gets to take place, production will only move elsewhere with higher greenhouse gas emissions as a result. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the export value from the steel and metal industry last year, according to SCB, was 88 billion. If we add ore production and other mineral goods, the export value was approximately 137 billion. It is a bit more than 10 percent of the exports of goods, and the trend is also positive at the moment in the favourable world economy. Having said that, there should be little doubt that these industries are crucial to the welfare of the country and its citizens. Although competition is rock hard, Swedish steel companies with black figures remain linked to the fact that they have specialized in high-performance steel, which in turn requires research and development. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we are used to a positive net trade for goods. For a long time, however, there has been a trend of a worsening net, which has turned into negative figures during this term of office. The trend is straight without any strain on trend breakage, which is a most worrying development for our industry and economy. We should be aware that the Swedish Democrats are keen to strengthen Swedish industry so that we can guarantee the welfare of our citizens. I believe that the Swedish Democrats here have taken on the leadership shirt during their term of office and are presenting concrete and effective proposals. What is not to belittle either is that the steel and mining industry as a whole represents thousands of jobs – in addition, often in places in Sweden where it is the industry that keeps the localities alive. This makes the industry particularly important from the perspective that people should be able to live and operate in their ancestors' areas if they so wish. Mr President, I would like to In this report, the Swedish Democrats have two reservations. For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 7, which is about adjusting the Swedish mineralisation. We believe that it is reasonable for a greater proportion of the value to come to society and citizens when, for example, foreign mining companies exploit Swedish minerals. We also believe that there is a mutual interest between the state and the mining industry and that mineral compensation could make it easier for the state to pursue an active mining and mineral policy, not least in terms of investing in important infrastructure so that the industry can develop.
i-YLYu8R3iBGAsR3YBYfGwcA	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of Amendments Nos 2 and 12. Did you know that during your lifetime you will need 800 tons of minerals and metals? Although not everyone wants to admit it, new mines and increased access to metals and minerals are a prerequisite for modern society. Many people know that Sweden is a significant mining country in Europe and that much of our wealth is based on the ores and minerals that we extract here, as several before me have mentioned. Not least in my home county Västerbotten but also in Norrbotten and Bergslagen there is an old tradition of mining ores and minerals. Today, thousands of people are working to extract iron ore, and that means a lot to these places that are usually located in rural areas where there may not be many other jobs. Mr President, I would like to Some also wonder why we need to open more mines. There is a lot of discussion about that today. Is it not enough to recycle the metal we already have? Let us remember that many people in India and China, for example, rise out of poverty and become middle class, and they may seek the kind of life that we have. Who are we to deny people the same opportunities and conditions that we have? We often take this for granted. We use our mobile phones, drive a car, ride trains made of steel and cross bridges that connect islands, landscapes and land with each other. Another reason why more metals are needed is the new advanced technology, often for environmental purposes. It requires new types of metals that have not previously been used to the same degree and that need to be developed to a greater extent, such as rare earth metals, which are quite abundant in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We are good at metal recycling in our country, and in 2013, for example, the world's largest recycling plant for electronic scrap in Skellefteå was inaugurated. Many of us in here have visited this industry. Of course, society can be even better when it comes to recycling, but it should be remembered that recycling can only replace part of the growing need for metals that is needed around the world. There is also another aspect worth highlighting in this context. As we live in an increasingly troubled world, it is good that Sweden and the EU have their own access to ore and minerals and are not too dependent on other countries. An own and increased level of supply is important not only for maintaining our standard of living but also for a competitive base industry. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, the mining and minerals industry contributes not only to jobs and growth in places where jobs are scarce but also to the construction of sustainable society. With the metals and minerals extracted in Sweden, we can build the technology needed for renewable energy, solar cells, batteries, electric cars and much more. Industrial giants Atlas Copco, Sandvik and ABB export all climate-smart mining innovation to the world, and in their development work the Swedish mines play a crucial role as important test beds. In other words, we can be proud of the Swedish mining industry. Nowhere else does the mining industry take as much environmental and climate responsibility as in Sweden. I think it is important to point this out. The fact that metals and minerals are extracted with great environmental considerations and that the land is then restored is of the utmost importance to achieve our environmental objectives but also to show respect for landowners and the people who use the land, both for their activities and for recreation. Mr President, I would like to Although the common understanding of Swedish environmental requirements is high, the processing times for permit trials are becoming longer. Companies and organisations in the industry are sounding the alarm about impossible investment decisions because of the processing times, which I do not think is unknown to anyone in here, about the lack of efficiency of the authorities and about the lack of predictability of what is required for a complete application. The lack of clarity in the handling of cases by the authorities is a major problem and can ultimately affect legal certainty. The fact that the current system of inefficient and lengthy processing times affects an entire industry is clear. The examples are many. When the permit process for the Svappavaara field took seven years instead of expected four years, public LKAB lost revenue of up to SEK 10 billion. This is a completely unreasonable situation for those companies that are waiting to invest hundreds of millions in our Swedish countryside. There is no correlation between long processing times and good quality environmental testing. In order to break the negative trend of running out of time and inefficient licensing processes and to ensure legal certainty, it is important that the government now review the possibility of providing extra resources to the authorities dealing with permit cases, in order to shorten processing times. Then there must be clear deadlines for authorities dealing with authorisation cases. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to say a few words about rail transport. Since we are an export-dependent country and also a large country geographically – only my home county Västerbotten is as large as Holland – we need good transport opportunities for goods, not least for the mining and steel industry. Often priorities are made according to the needs of passenger transport, and my feeling is that goods often come second. Investments on behalf of the goods must be made from north to south, because the needs are, to say the least, great. Personally, I find it somewhat provocative that the majority of infrastructure investments are made in and around the large cities. In fact, it is at the expense of industry – an industry that is often located in more sparsely populated areas. This does not make Sweden more competitive, rather the opposite. Let me give you an example. You must know that Northvolt is planning to build a large battery plant in Skellefteå. The combination of a safe and continuous flow of renewable energy and the proximity to domestic mining and mineral activities were probably some of the reasons why the company chose Skellefteå to host its battery plant, which is by the way one of the largest in Europe. The plant, which will produce lithium-ion batteries, is expected to provide between 2 000 and 2 500 new jobs in the region. Even if there is a port nearby, there would be a need for a new railway investment that can efficiently transport the batteries through Sweden and out into Europe. But we still hear that there are too few people to pay for building a railway, that is, Norrbotniabanan between Umeå and Luleå. I can only regret that the issues of infrastructure are not discussed more from a good point of view. Without fast and efficient transport, it will be difficult for a country like Sweden, with its long distances, to compete with the rest of Europe and the world. Think about it when it is time to decide on infrastructure investments next time!
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-881	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commenting on what Helena Lindahl raised at the end of the debate on infrastructure. I can reassure Helena Lindahl that I agree with her arguments for the Norrbotnia Line. They are basically good, and the Left Party is therefore pushing for Norrbotniabanan to be built. This is an important issue for us too. It is incredibly important to strengthen the infrastructure to northern Sweden both for the battery factory in Skellefteå and for the mining industry in general. I hope that we can prioritise this over efforts in the metropolitan areas of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The mining industry is a strategically important industry for Sweden, not least in regions that have previously suffered from high unemployment and emigration. Modernising the Swedish economy, where we face the environmental and climate challenges we face, must, however, mean that the mining industry develops in harmony with the rest of society. Sweden has a mining industry with good chances of taking the lead in this development, not least as regards new technologies for energy storage. Many renewable energy sources today depend on external factors such as weather and wind. This implies a degree of uncertainty as regards supply and transmission. Today there are a variety of energy storage techniques, but many are still at an early stage of development. There is a potential in new types of batteries that can absorb and store energy until it is needed. The development of new storage technologies and the need to transform into a sustainable society will require new substances and materials. Increased battery use will be necessary, not least when transport and transport need to replace fossil fuels currently used with sustainable alternatives. Sweden has a strong industry, with research and rich natural resources that give good chances of leading the way in development. It also provides a good basis for ecologically sustainable production throughout the life cycle – from mining to recycling. Outside Vittangi in Norrbotten, a discovery with the world's most high-quality graphite ore has been found – a substance that will play a major role in the energy storage of the future. New development projects can make a big difference for the local communities concerned, especially when deposits such as Vittangi also lead to the production of batteries in the vicinity. However, further development is needed to enable commercial use. Swedish industrial research can play an important role there. A good sign is that there are already strong industrial interests and far-reaching plans to build Europe's largest battery plant outside Skellefteå. In this context, a change in the mineral levy in order to promote local further processing may be crucial for greater acceptance of mining. A future mineral replacement should work degressively in relation to further processing. For companies that choose to improve their raw materials locally, mineralisation should be lower than otherwise. The government should therefore investigate how a degressive mineral replacement, in order to promote local further processing, can work. You also need to think about the level of the mineral fee today. Sweden has a mineral fee that is among the lowest in the world. It therefore needs to be increased. Mr President, I would like to Mining has a major impact on the environment, and already exploration and drilling can have negative effects on natural values and reindeer husbandry. It is therefore crucial that the potential for influence from stakeholders can be strengthened and that the protection of unique natural, tourist and reindeer grazing areas is protected at an early stage in the exploitation process, from research permits to mining. The Left Party believes that it is also economically beneficial for mining and exploration companies to be informed early in the process that mining will not be approved in an area. Therefore, the SGU Mountain State should not be able to grant research permits in areas classified as nature reserves, Natura 2000 sites or World Heritage sites. Mr President, I would like to The climate transition is not only about restrictions on emissions but also about limiting fossil extraction both in Sweden and globally. For Sweden to be a leading country in the climate transition, political action is required. Companies have searched for shale gas in a number of locations in Sweden, including Öland and Skåne. In Skåne, Shell carried out studies of alumscipals in 2009 and 2012. Shale gas is a fossil gas formed and bonded in rock foundation consisting of shale. Alunskiffer areas are also located in Östergötland, Västergötland, Närke and Jämtland. The global commercial interest in this energy source is great. The exploitation of even more fossil energy would counteract a necessary energy transition and risk that there will be major negative effects on the environment. A national ban on the extraction of fossil energy must therefore be introduced. In the event that the Riksdag does not impose a national ban, the municipalities' self-determination must be safeguarded. A municipal right of veto against the extraction of fossil energy should therefore be introduced. In spring, according to the bill list that has been presented, the government will present a proposal for a ban on uranium extraction. It is a welcome proposal, which we from the Left Party, along with the Center Party, have been demanding for a long time. I therefore hope that the bill will come by next month at the latest, so that Parliament can introduce a ban on uranium extraction before the summer. Mr President, I would like to I commend the Left Party's reservation 8 to investigate a degressive mineral fee.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-895	Mr President, I would like to This week is really a sign of the mines. I started the week up in Gällivare and visited Boliden Aitik. It was an amazing experience. There are probably some who wonder why you go there in the middle of winter when there is as much snow as there is at present, but only it was an experience: to come down 450 meters in the mine and see the amazing changes in the colors of the ice and snow that were there. Today I hosted a seminar on the environmental assessment of mines from which I had to run to get to the debate in time. When it comes to finding ways to meet the need for metals and minerals in order to use modern technology, one point is that it also has a price because we are still dependent on the mining industry. We should remember that Sweden is one of the most important mining nations in Europe. We are the largest producer of iron ore with about 95% of production, and we are one of the largest producers of copper. For example, Aitik produces 10 per cent of total production. In the case of lead, silver and zinc, Sweden accounts for between 15 and 30% of production in Europe. As we know, the largest volumes are broken in northern Norrland and Bergslagen. Sweden is also well placed to grow as a mining nation. When it comes to raw materials for different industries and the production of electronic products, it is important that we can use and obtain minerals and metals from our own country. It may not work to become self-sufficient, but our mineral deposits are important, also from a European perspective. We have good geological conditions, and not least great knowledge and experience of mining for generations. We should also remind ourselves of the size of the mining industry in terms of creating jobs and contributing to employment, social development and large revenues from exports and taxes. Swedish mining industry, including prospectors, mining companies, machine suppliers and service companies, contributed SEK 106 billion to Sweden's bnp a couple of years ago. The sector employs around 13 000 employees, but contributes around 35 000 to 40 000 indirect jobs. And an investment rate of 10 billion a year is hard to find in any other industry. It could be even more so if the state processes could be speeded up. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has and will have a demanding and good environmental legislation that carefully examines applications for new activities in this area. Today, however, many people testify that much is needed before it has even been established that there is something to be collected. Stakeholders therefore hesitate to even start a process for obtaining a research permit. Making a work plan for the future exploration work, getting it approved and starting exploration, which is the first step on the road to possible mining, can now take between 5 and 15 years. In the previous debate, on the electricity market, we talked about concession tests and so on. Here we have another area where it is a matter of obtaining permits and where it takes so huge that those who might be willing to invest in Sweden might rather do so elsewhere. I am one of those who would like to see more people getting jobs in this country, not least in those places that in other cases might not attract the big investors. Because the mine is where it is. The powers are where they are. They're not moving. And they are often out in small municipalities. We should bear in mind that jobs are being created there. It also creates a society where there is a need for jobs of both a high-tech and a practical nature. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Innovation has promised that the timing of permit processes will be shortened by a review of the processes. According to the Department, this is part of the new industrialization strategy. And it's always been there. The strategy was taken by the government a few years ago. And most recently at the trade association Svemin's autumn meeting Damberg promised this again. There is something that is rarely mentioned. Now our friend from the Left Party, Håkan Svenneling, who was in the pulpit before the vote, is not here, but he is the only one who, in any case with a single word, has mentioned reindeer industry. It's a running point in the state processes. The reindeer industry is also where it is. It's nothing that can be moved either way. And there must be a constant dialogue with the Sami reindeer industry committee and so on. It is strange that we do not see this industry when we are dealing with this issue here in Parliament. I have brought this with me from the seminar that I attended before the debate. I think that Parliament and the Sami Parliament need to look at this together in order to solve some of the cracking issues: how to use good, good and strong environmental requirements, also for the mining industry to develop as well as possible. Mr President, I would like to I just want to mention the need for skills development that the mining industry also has, as well as other industries we have been talking about in this House over the past year. The mountain school in Filipstad has since 1830 trained mountain engineers, as it has been called before. It is the only training in Sweden for engineers and production technicians in rock and construction, metallurgy and materials technology. It is strange that we do not have an overall view of the education system in this country, in order to meet the training needs of different sectors, especially if there is only one training provider. Fortunately, LTU, Luleå University of Technology, entered as the principal in 2012 to continue running the education together with the industry, Karlstad University and the Bergsskolan Foundation, for which Filipstad Municipality is the principal. I'm surprised every time. It does not matter whether we are talking about the tourism industry or energy issues. In any sector, there is a lack of skills. But when it comes to the mining industry, where there is only one training provider in the country, there should be a state interest in keeping it going, not least in view of the export revenues we receive to the country. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I would like to call for reservations 2 and 12 from the Alliance and for reservations 5, 9 and 11 from the Christian Democrats.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-913	Mr President, I would like to Today we have the privilege of dealing with the report in the field of mineral policy, perhaps for the last time this parliamentary term. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. However, the spirit of several of the exercises is that we want more with the Swedish mining and mineral industry. And it's a feeling that I fully share. However, in many areas of exercise, important and intensive work is under way and several initiatives have been launched. I'll mention some of them here today. Initially, I think we should remind ourselves of the importance of this industry, for Sweden, for Europe and not least for those rural counties where the mining industry is a large and important investor and employer. Sweden, as most of us in this House know, accounts for 90% of total production of iron ore in the EU. We are the largest producer of lead and zinc and a large producer of many other base metals. Thousands of people are directly employed in this industry. This suggests that Sweden is a leading mining nation. We'll be proud of that. But it is a position that we must constantly work to preserve and develop. This is confirmed both in the mineral strategy presented a few years ago and in the agreement reached between the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The latter starts with a quote that I think frames the focus on politics particularly well: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The development of the Swedish economy is good. The industry is going too high, and unemployment is being pushed back. We also see that more and more companies are investing more and moving back production to Sweden. This means more jobs, it means strengthening our rural areas in particular, and it means that we have a much stronger backbone and engine in the Swedish economy. Industry is a prerequisite for our common prosperity to grow for both this generation and the next generations. This also applies very much to the mining industry. It's a strong, but export-dependent industry. The price of minerals varies greatly on the world market. We have seen this not least in the last year with strong fluctuations in mineral prices. There are, of course, things that we must do to strengthen Sweden's position as a leading mining country in the EU. A particular issue, which has been highlighted by several of my colleagues here today, concerns the long processing times in the permit process. There is work going on in the Government Office and in several of our agencies. If we have the right systems and the right processes, I think it is perfectly possible that we can combine an effective state-of-the-art process while not compromising the consideration of important natural values, important cultural values and other things that we want to preserve in the surrounding society. The government recently set up an investigation to review and propose concrete changes to current processes and regulations – this in order to make the environmental permit testing more effective. I think there are many of us who are very curious and who long for the outcome of that investigation because we in this House can take further steps towards a state-of-the-art process of predictability, stability and inclusion. Mr President, I would like to This has also mentioned earlier today, but I want to say it again: In the Swedish bedrock there is a seed for the future. We have an ambitious goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. This objective is binding and will require the development of new climate-smart technologies and innovations. We're gonna have to break a whole new ground. For this to be possible, we need a stable and secure supply of innovation-critical minerals, such as cobalt, lithium and several other rare earth minerals. Sweden has a bedrock that is rich in these very minerals. Two years ago, SGU was commissioned to develop a good methodology to map the deposits and to be able to inventory the assets contained in the existing mining waste. The investigation is now complete. The government has announced that it wants to take this work further by adding 10 million to SGU in order for SGU to be able to look at the deposits in Bergslagen in particular. As you know, SGU is already engaged in a project that works with in-depth mapping in certain key areas. In the transformation of society, Mr President, we will have to develop Swedish mining rather than allow our technological innovations to rest on mineral mining that takes place elsewhere where working conditions and environmental considerations are radically worse. The Swedish bedrock provides the conditions for future climate innovations and new technologies – it is fantastic! In this context, let me also quote the last sentence of the government parties' agreement on mineral policy: It is clear. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has conducted an investigation into a Swedish ban on uranium extraction. The investigation has been completed and was submitted to the government last autumn. As the report before us today says, the government intends to submit a proposal in this area in the spring. Mr President, I would like to The supply of skills, which has been lifted by Penilla Gunther, is an important issue for the whole of society. A report from Growth Analysis shows that 43 percent of all employees in the mining industry will retire until 2025. We are facing a huge challenge. Sweden must cope with the supply of skills in order to exploit the potential and work capacity of all people and to be a society that is still at the forefront. There will be a need for both breadth and excellence in the supply of skills. The efforts that the government is now making with investments in skills development, vocational training – especially regional – and adult education are historically significant. The entire education system will be extended with 93 000 places by 2021. The professional packages initiated by the government will also play a major role. No workplace, whether private or public, and no industry, small or large, will be protected from this challenge. In order for the mining industry and industry to develop throughout the country, it is important that there is a surrounding society that works. This requires investment in skills provision and substantial investment in infrastructure and welfare. It is particularly important that there is a functioning infrastructure to and from our mines. The government has taken a welcome step by saying yes to the construction of the Norrbotnia Line and making historically large investments in railway maintenance. It is important for industry to be able to develop trains on time, for roads to be accessible and for the whole country to have equal opportunities to grow and develop. Mr President, I would like to As I said at the beginning, Sweden will be a pioneer country in the sustainable mining industry. Swedish mineral policy must be characterised by responsibility for the environment, people and our mineral deposits. It is good for Sweden and it is good for the rural counties where the industry is an important employer. This applies from Norrbotten and Västernorrland to Bergslagen and my county Gotland. We will and can combine to make use of the valuable deposits found in our bedrock while minimising damage to nature and cultural values. The development of the mining industry should be in line with the surrounding society. Our objective, Mr President, is a Sweden that stands together. The way there is through jobs, greater welfare, greater security and investment in rural areas.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-942	Mr President, I would like to With David Lindvall talking so nice and big about the metals that are so important to innovation, my question is how does he get it together with the bill to ban uranium mining. The government is now investing SEK 10 million in SGU, but SGU itself says that such a ban would be devastating for Sweden's ability to break these minerals. Then I simply wonder how David Lindvall gets the logic together. SGUs are being given small sums of money, while the SGU is being hijacked when it comes to seriously competing on the global market in view of the predatory drive on these minerals. I would like an answer to that.
i-2jMBkSXXKnoCmVrXJSXMon	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Bali, for the question. It is clear from the report by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which proposes a ban on the extraction of uranium, that it is perfectly possible to introduce such a ban and still carry out mining of other minerals. It is clear in that investigation, and I think it is a perfectly accessible way. That is a question which I find very interesting and which I would like to have an answer to. I share Mr Bali's commitment to these issues. We must have a secure supply of these minerals. I also want us to take increased steps towards a fossil-free society. I listened initially to your speech in this debate, and I have listened to Helena Lindahl from the Center Party in previous debates. The Center Party is proposing a ban on uranium extraction. Here the Moderates propagate that such a ban would be a manslaughter battle against the entire Swedish mining industry. It's an analysis that's both wrong and pretty burdus. How can you agree on these issues that are so important to Sweden? The industry needs stability, predictability and long-term conditions in order to grow and develop. What mineral policy do we get if there is an alliance government? Is it Hanif Bali's or Helena Lindahl's mineral policy?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-948	Mr President, I would like to I don't think it's a problem to get along with the Center Party. It is a pragmatic, future-oriented environmental party when compared to the fanatical environmental party that you have on your side. You claim that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says: There is no problem and it is not at all in conflict with the ban on uranium when possible explorations of, for example, the minerals that have been mentioned. That's not true. SGU itself even sawed the proposal that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should have the competence to decide this. You rely on the SGU to extract these minerals. At the same time, you saw their skills and rely on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency when it comes to the uranium ban. That doesn't make any sense. Do you have confidence in the SGU's expertise or not? If you do, you must also have confidence in the SGU when it is said that a ban on uranium would have been devastating.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-952	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Hanif Bali asked any question, but it was not least words and no songs. I have full confidence in the Swedish authorities. To say otherwise is completely absurd. This is a complex issue and nothing solved in 140 characters in a tweet. This is something we really need to drill into. I am fully convinced that the state authorities can have a good dialogue with each other when they investigate important and sensitive issues such as this. I am fully convinced that the Government Office has the skills to compile various data and be able to come up with a balanced proposal. There is no doubt whatsoever that we will be able to continue the mining of important innovation-critical minerals while limiting the possibility of extracting uranium from the soil.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-956	Mr President, I would like to I was going to hang on to Mr Bali's thoughts about the divided cooperation government, whose parties actually do not agree at all on these issues. I would like to put a question back to David Lindvall about what it is supposed to be like in the future with regard to mineral policy if you get the chance to rule together again, which I do not think you want. With reference to the report by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on the ban on uranium, we can read in our own report the following about the report mentioned: ..................................................... Well, that's because neither of us really has the intention of breaking uranium. But what you obviously have not understood is that if you break other metals and minerals, some uranium comes with it. The only question is what do we do then? Should we put it back in the soil, put a net over and hope that we can plant something over so that it can't be seen and noticed anymore? Or should we actually be able to use it in some way? I hope that David Lindvall and the Social Democrats are aware that we also import 1 500 tonnes of uranium per year. If we could use this to bring up the innovation-critical metals, it might also make sense not to impose this ban. Otherwise, we wouldn't get anything else up either.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-960	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the question! As far as the possibility of being able to rule after the next elections is concerned, it has been excellent for the Social Democrats and the Green Party to rule during this period. It was also very good when we had budget cooperation between 1998 and 2006. I can put Penilla Gunthers's concerns at ease. There will be order when this government continues to rule even after the elections. The issue raised by Penilla Gunther, who previously also raised Mr Bali, debated, among other things, Penilla Gunthers's alliance colleague Helena Lindahl in the past. It is important that we have a long-term regulation of the possibilities to break uranium in place in order for it to last over time. Above all, many in the municipalities where there are large uranium deposits want to see such a ban, because they want long-term and stable conditions on this issue. They want guarantees that uranium will not be mined in the future either. I want to say the same thing I said earlier. In its proposal for a ban on uranium, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states that it is perfectly possible to break other minerals while at the same time introducing a restriction to extract uranium. I have read that investigation and am fully aware that Sweden is importing uranium today. I would advise Penilla Gunther and all the other colleagues in the Alliance to also read the investigation. It is clear that the mining of other minerals is not affected by a possible ban on uranium as it is designed in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's investigation.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-963	Mr President, I would like to I can inform David Lindvall that at a seminar here in Parliament a few months ago, among other things, a professor of geology could point out the fact that if uranium is mined, it is actually the case. So perhaps I could say, please read it. There was also an investigation one month after the investigation commissioned by Karolina Skog at the Ministry of Environment by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which may not have the best expertise in the field. It was a report that Mikael Damberg had ordered from Growth Analysis. Perhaps David Lindvall has read it. It says something quite different, namely that the mining industry will develop and that we must have a more accessible mining here in Sweden because we have the assets that we have. If we are to believe in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which David Lindvall so badly wants to do, it is said that there is no environmental reason for a ban on uranium. So even that it would be good for the environment, we cannot rely on it. I say it again: there is probably no party that really strives for us to break the uranium itself. But my question remains as to what we should do with the uranium that then comes up when we break other things. What are we gonna do with it?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-967	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the enlightenment! It is clear that this is a complex area. This is noted by both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and SGU and those who are active in this area. A certain degree of sensitivity is required in order to achieve effective and purposeful regulation. Many different laws are involved in this area. This is simply complex. I have absolute full confidence – to a hundred percent – in the Swedish authorities and that they possess the skills necessary for them to be able to conduct investigations of things that fall within their subject areas. One thing I find particularly interesting. There are people who are far more competent than I in assessing how to deal with the mining waste that could, for example, come out of uranium extraction. That's where I'll probably get Penilla Gunther's answer. There are sharp minds that can look at such a solution.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-970	Mr President, I would like to Mineral policy is a complex area in which, of course, a number of interests must be taken into account. First of all, of course, we have regard for the environment. It is about protecting landscape impact, people's environment, groundwater and cultural values. Furthermore, there are also business interests that sometimes resist each other and that need to be balanced. It concerns the reindeer industry and the tourism industry. Often these are small companies and businesses that are at risk if the policy and, by extension, the exploitation of nature is not prudent. The third, of course, is about the need for society itself. Minerals and metals are needed and will continue to be needed in our society. Let me tell you something about this very last one. As far as the social need for minerals is concerned, the government has started an important work. There is a particular need for minerals that are important for battery production, such as electric cars, new green technologies and renewable energy, such as wind and solar energy, as well as energy storage. These are global needs and therefore Sweden also has a responsibility. In January 2016, the Government presented its new industrialisation strategy, Smart Industry. Within this framework, Growth Analysis has, among other things, been able to identify the need for minerals and metals for environmental and technological innovations. Growth analysis reported the assignment at the end of 2017. In the report, Growth Analysis describes the future need for innovation critical metals and minerals. The work was followed up at the end of 2017 and the government gave SGU an assignment that had two parts. One concerns the mapping of these innovation-critical metals, especially those that are important in the environmental and climate transition. The second part is at least as important, and there you look at the availability of raw materials from secondary sources, that is, how we should make use of what is in the mining waste itself. This is something we generally need to get better at. How can we recycle and reuse to a greater extent? In a world of increasing population, we will need to be better at closing the loops. Let me turn to another subject and talk about environmental considerations. The environmental party has always given the highest priority to the environment, and now we are looking through government work to bring about concrete changes in place. In many parts of Sweden, the threat of large-scale exploitation and uranium mining has been like a wet blanket over local communities. Concerns are great in many places. Will our beautiful natural landscape be torn apart? Will tourist visits stop? Will our local industries die out? What happens to drinking water? These concerns have been justified. The interest in uranium mining has been great in many places, although we have not yet seen any mining initiated. But now, Mr President, this worry is about to end. We are finally going to get a total ban on uranium mining. This makes perfect sense. We have an agreement among several parties in the Riksdag that we will have renewable energy sources in the future. Our electricity production will be 100 percent renewable in 2040. Then there must also be an end to picking uranium out of the ground. Above all, we should no longer expose Swedish towns to the concerns that it has caused to have this threat hanging over them. I am extremely pleased and proud to belong to the party that has succeeded in bringing this ban forward. Over the years, I have noted that the Center Party has pushed but failed to bring about such a decision. I hope now that we can join forces in this House. I have noticed that there are some misunderstandings in this House among other parties regarding rare innovation-critical metals. This is a ban on uranium mining, not on anything else. It will continue to be possible to break earths in the future. A ban on uranium mining is step one. The Green Party wants to go further. We want a corresponding ban on oil and gas extraction in Sweden. The government has shown its willingness to do this but has not yet been put to the fore. The next step we want to take is to also stop mining in alums. Whether it is uranium or any other deposit, mining in aluminum shale is a dangerous process, which also creates concern in many locations in Sweden. We also want to see a ban here. Mr President, I would like to To sum up, different considerations need to be weighed against each other. There is no doubt about that. For the Green Party, of course, the protection of nature, the environment and culture weighs the most. This means that we need to put an end to the decline in the mining industry and, at the same time, become better at creating cycles for what is broken. We have acted accordingly in a government position, and there we are now making a real difference. I support the report and reject the motions.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-982	Mr President, I would like to This is interesting in many respects, Lorentz Tovatt. If it were the case that there was a permit or that anyone had ever shown an interest in breaking uranium in Sweden, I would understand what you are saying. Then, too, the concerns that you say are in the country in some localities would probably be justified. But now there is no such thing in all of Sweden. It is also stated in our report. I read it out earlier in one of my speeches. Where is the anxiety, and what does it consist of? Which companies are interested in extracting uranium in Sweden? As I am aware, there is no company that has been authorised, if there has even been interest. This is largely due to the fact that it is at all so difficult to obtain permission to do something in this country. Only in order to examine the possibility of a deposit of which mineral it is possible, a work plan for the entire exploration should be presented in principle. It is an enormous environmental effort that takes between 5 and 15 years. My questions remain. Where in Sweden is the worry? In which places? If so, which companies have requested permission to break uranium in this particular country?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-985	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Gunther for the questions. I almost feel like we're living in the parallel universe. Since I was appointed as a mineral political spokesperson for my party, there are a lot of people from different parts of the country who have contacted me, been very worried and praised the work done by the government to try to get a ban on uranium mining. There are very many companies that have shown an interest in mining uranium in Sweden. I can give you a tip. Last autumn I visited Jämtland. I traveled around there talking to local representatives from the political parties. There was a great deal of concern. A lot of people felt: What will happen to our local community? Will there be large-scale exploitation here? What will happen to our drinking water? What will happen to our countryside? What will happen to the tourism industry and other local industries? This is very widespread. I can recommend Penilla Gunther to go out into the country and visit the places where there has been interest in mining. It was very instructive. I was deeply moved to see the commitment that existed to stop uranium mining in these places.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-988	Mr President, I would like to I am probably one of those Members who are most throughout the country, I could actually stand here and say. Not least, my interest in this stems from the fact that I want to know reasonably what we stand here and decide on. But it is de facto the case that Mr Lorentz is standing in this Chamber claiming something that cannot be verified. Which companies have started a process to obtain research permits to break uranium? I know that there are, among other things, Australian companies that are interested in mining minerals in Jämtland, for example. In the municipality of Berg, a great deal of work is under way. There is an interest in spending quite a lot of money in the district doing a exploration. This is also found elsewhere in the country. But is this really about uranium? No, why should Australian companies take the trouble to break uranium in Sweden? They've got big rabbles in their own country. What they do in Australia we can leave behind. It's their business, so to speak. But they are interested in producing the innovation-critical metals that both you and I use daily in our computers, mobiles and so on, Lorentz Tovatt. My question remains here too. Where can we see that there is a desire to obtain permission to break uranium in this country? It would have been very interesting for all of us to know, I think.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-991	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Gunther for the change of line. Thankfully, we have not seen uranium mining in Sweden. This is partly due to the fact that we have had the municipal veto and that many companies have known that it has been complicated to get permission to break uranium in Sweden. I'm very happy about that. However, as I was very clear about in my speech, there has always been a threat to these local communities. I don't understand how Penilla Gunther may have missed it on her travels around Sweden. Among other things, I was in the municipality of Berg. There is a great deal of concern about the exploitation of uranium. The exploitation also applies to other things, such as earth metals, but it is, among other things, uranium that there has been a threat of large-scale exploitation of. I am almost surprised that Penilla Gunther has missed this on her travels around Sweden. For me, it's been very obvious. In the municipal petition you can see in the consultation position, it is up to 30 municipalities that have joined forces and said: Hooray, you finally get on with a ban on uranium mining! Local government is cheering right now that we're finally getting on with this. I think that is proof enough that it has been a real threat and that we can now put an end to it.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-995	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that future resources are also available in today's heaps of slag. We will develop technology to use lime mounds instead of digging up Gotland. A circular economy that reduces the need for new inputs of raw materials is also a way to avoid digging up our soil. The mining industry will never be able to satisfy the mouths of growth. We will never be able to have resource efficiency globally, which means that we will stop expanding the holes in the earth as long as we do not invest more in resource efficiency than in pumping up growth through financial instruments. That's the foundation. Then we look at what the nutrition looks like. What reality do people live in that it is so miserable for the mining companies in Sweden? Look at the expert institutions that evaluate it every year. Fraser Institute is probably the most famous. There is Sweden's third in the world. It does not compare countries but even regions in Australia and Canada with competitiveness and investment opportunities. Are our environmental laws a problem? No, they're not. On the contrary, investors think that we have enormous stability in Sweden. When it comes to transparency in Sweden, we have received the highest rating from investors. 55% think that the processes encourage investment. It's the highest of all counties. With regard to the time required for authorisation, 45% estimates that the authorisation process will take six months or less. Sweden and Finland are at the top. Are they worried they won't get their permits? No, 100 percent of the mining companies interviewed say they are very convinced or convinced to obtain a permit. Stop painting this black sky! Sweden is a paradise for mining investors. In fact, it's an extreme paradise. If you look at the taxes, we're almost at the bottom. Of the established mining nations, we are at the bottom by 0.2 percent. No, thank you Valter Mutts and my motion to reinstate the Chronodel Institute! It was established 80 years ago, and 25 years ago it was withdrawn. It may have been an excessive tax, but we can investigate it. Then you'd give half of what you found to Uncle State. Half the wealth you dig away for future generations would go back to the state. That makes sense, doesn't it? Mines are not remineralized. What you're taking out today isn't gonna be here tomorrow. A mine you don't open today is still there until another time when it's more profitable. It is a wise investment policy to have a fee that means that we do not empty the mines now that you get poorly paid without them remaining until the time you can get the most paid. It is a wise and responsible mining policy. What does it come from that there would be work? Have you not met Atlas Copco, ABB, Volvo and LKAB? Everyone is investing in artificial intelligence, automated cars and joystick mines. What planet are you on? There will be no work of this! The mining jobs will disappear. That's good, because it's dangerous work. Some will remain, but then you sit with a joystick instead of a heavy machine. Artificial intelligence will make things easier. You exploit the mines more efficiently with less resource use. That's where the future lies. This is not an old-fashioned policy of reducing regulations and risking the environment. Sweden's prosperity is based on the fact that we protect water, reindeer farming, tourism and the possibility of recreation. There is certainly room for mines in Sweden. We have a large country with many resources. But we won't have a sale on the mines. No, for a responsible mining policy that balances the need for future generations to use our resources with our need to exploit them now!
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1008	Madam President, I would like It is fantastic to hear such a prominent environmental party like Carl Schlyter stand and praise Swedish mining industry. I can't believe it. It's lucky it's recorded so we know it's happening. As for the reference to the Fraser Institute, it must be very old figures that Carl Schlyter has. Last week, the annual survey was presented. Sweden has fallen from place eight last year to place sixteen for how one feels it looks in Sweden today for the mining industry. Top of the list this year is Finland, which has climbed from place five. There are also a number of other criteria. One of the companies that has responded to the survey says: Sweden has a stable system, but there is still room for improvement. Investors are concerned about permit delays, lengthy legal disputes and inconsistent environmental regulations. I may think it is somewhat contrary to what Carl Schlyter wanted to say here. I have a question. Is it not the case that with all the things that the Green Party puts forward as subsidies for electric bicycles, electric cars, one with the other – we heard here about artificial intelligence – that everything requires some kind of content coming from the mines? How has Carl Schlyter imagined that the Swedish mining industry will be able to develop in this area?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1012	Madam President, I would like You know that they do not compare countries but regions and countries in the ranking. I mentioned countries. That's why we get a little different numbers. My figures are from last year's report. It's not that old. Since 2012, we've been climbing. In addition, there are many, up to twenty, parameters that are compared. You have chosen one of them, the collected one. Sweden is clearly on the upper half and is sometimes at the top of most areas when it comes to industrial competitiveness. This means that we have extremely generous mining legislation and well-functioning authorities, which is a positive thing. With regard to the supply of rare earths and the like, we cannot replace one environmental problem with another. We cannot say that we should use coal mines less and then open new mines to rare earth metals that destroy drinking water in Vättern. It won't hold. Then one environmental problem is replaced by another. If we're going to use natural resources, we can start by closing the flows. I don't know how many cell phones you have at home in your drawers, but I'm sure this is on average more than one. Recycling and ending flows is also a resource base. That's what I mean. The new mines are the cities. It's about reusing. If we have an old technology where the minerals are, we re-use them and use them for more effective things. To have to constantly expand mining is not sustainable. We live on a limited planet, and hopefully we will live here for millions of more years. Then our generation cannot empty the earth for all future generations because we are too lax to take care of our waste systems and our economic systems. That is why it is important to have a sustainable labour market policy that does not constantly build new jobs on increased growth and debt that crashes both the economy and ecology. If you ask, my general answer is that it is a matter of exchanging efficiency gains in shorter working hours rather than constantly increasing consumption. There you have the key to a sustainable solution.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1020	Madam President, I would like That sounds praiseworthy. Perhaps the Green Party would not be the ones pushing us to use electric bicycles instead of being able to step on as we have always done with ordinary bicycles. Why should we have battery power for a vehicle that we have been using for a hundred years in a completely different way that has not created any major environmental impact in the past but will suddenly do so? The truth is, Carl Schlyter, that we have very few companies not only in Sweden but in the world that can take advantage of and recycle batteries of various kinds. There are very few companies. One of those who can do that and take advantage of the elements that we are in such desperate need of all are Boliden Rönnskär outside Skellefteå. With the Green Party's policy, this activity risks being shut down rather than developed. If we are now to talk about a circular economy and about a circular society, it is absolutely perfect to have a country where we can develop the metals and minerals needed for the development of Swedish society and where we can have production and then recycling and reuse, so that we have the very cycle that Carl Schlyter speaks so well about. But how is it to be done when political decisions make sure that we become even more dependent on batteries that contain this? You and your party really don't want to talk about that if you're gonna be honest.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1024	Madam President, I would like Yes, in nuclear weapons there is lithium that reflects neutrons. That can be phased out. Then there's more there. But you don't want to sign the global convention. A large part of the use of lithium is about batteries, for example, globally. But that's only about a third of the use. With regard to this use, I can say that it takes 100 - 200 times as much batteries for an electric car as it takes for an electric bicycle. Then I can partly agree with you. I'm a little hardcore old time, so I don't drive an electric bike by myself. But we have an electric bike at home. It is good to have when driving both children in the cart behind the bike on the uphills. I can do it with the electric bike and then I won't have to use a car. There are many uses for the electric bike, and I am pleased that many more have the opportunity to test an electric bike. If people buy an electric bike instead of a second car or even a first car, they have saved 100 times more than if they had bought a new car. That's very good. After all, the Green Party and the government have helped to facilitate the use of bicycles by, for example, providing repair reductions and by making it cheaper, so that you can use your bike in an easier way. I think we're actually promoting it. One can look at the traffic efforts made by environmentalists all over Sweden. We've made it easier when it comes to cycle paths. In Linköping it is absolutely fantastic ploughing and salting that allows you to take the bike all winter. So there are many areas where we are helping to change. Every person who uses a bicycle instead of a car makes a huge resource saving, so net our policy will lead to a significant reduction in mineral use. I don't think you have to worry about this.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1029	Madam President, I would like It feels like we are now coming to a completely different subject from minerals, which were debated earlier. I would like to start with something positive. I think we all realise that Swedish preschool is actually unique. It's amazing. Many people come from other countries to Sweden to watch our preschool. In recent weeks I have made a lot of visits to preschools in Stockholm County. I marvel at what a fantastic activity it is. It's the focus on learning. They are children who are happy and safe. Gradually, preschool has more and more lived up to its name, i.e. pre-school. It is therefore the focus on learning things and on the educational quality. It is important to ensure that the curriculum becomes a reality in all preschools. The school inspectorate has recently produced a report, on 16 February, which looks at the quality of preschool. There are many shortcomings in terms of equivalence. Even though we have a fantastic activity in many places, it looks very different. In the debate, we talk mostly about equivalence when it comes to school, but it is clear when you read the School Inspectorate's report that there are shortcomings in preschool too. At school, we talk a lot about the difference between different residential areas. There are not so clear patterns here, but the quality is uneven. Preschools lay the foundation for the school and are very important for many children, not least those who have special needs or who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. There is research that shows that these children are better off in school if they have been allowed to attend a good preschool. One of the most important prerequisites for the new curriculum to work well is that we have trained preschool teachers. This is really starting to look really bad around the country. The Public Employment Service classifies the lack of preschool teachers as a mere five on a five-degree scale. It is therefore one of the areas where there is the greatest shortage. There are similar problems that we see in the school area. This risks overturning the potential of the entire preschool, our children's learning at school and ultimately our ability to compete with knowledge. The lack of preschool teachers is also something that the School Inspectorate addresses as a critical point in its quality review. Of the over 100,000 in preschool staff, 40 per cent are trained preschool teachers. 35 percent are nannys. But 28 percent, which is almost a third, of those working in preschool have no education whatsoever to work with children. Much more efforts are needed to increase the quality of preschool staff than just to increase the number of pre-primary training places. Madam President, I would like Preschools lay the foundation for lifelong learning, and for Sweden's future opportunities to compete with knowledge, preschools are very important. For us Moderates, preschool is an important cornerstone of the education chain, and that is something that we need to consolidate and develop all the time. A good preschool lays the foundation for social mobility and a good development of knowledge. It is therefore important for more children to have access to preschool activities. We invest money in our budget to enable children of unemployed parents to attend preschool 30 hours free of charge. For those children, preschools can be an important preventive factor so that they do not become second generation unemployed but can have a better life than their parents. As with school, good leadership is the key to a good preschool. We Moderates want to strengthen the pre-school manager's mission and status, and we want to review how the post education can be made compulsory even for preschool school leaders. There is also a need to review the position training so that it is complemented by parts that are relevant to school leaders in preschool. We are deeply concerned about this government's lack of interest in pre-school development. The focus has been more on populist moves, such as the effort to reduce children's groups. On paper it may look like a success, but in practice the staff density has not increased. Many preschools have simply divided the group. I was at a preschool as late as last week where they said: We have 18 children and three staff members. On paper, we now have three groups of six children in each. We can therefore benefit from these state subsidies. Then that money does not give any exchange in terms of quality. It is possible to look at the benchmarks for the size of children's groups. That was one reason why they were removed. If you don't put money behind it and if you don't make sure that enough preschool teachers are trained, this will have very little effect on preschools. Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish School Inspectorate's report on quality in preschool, a majority of municipalities are failing in the supervision of independent preschools. Today, there is a lack of supervisory practices and strategies in many places. There is a lack of clear decisions when one has made one's supervision. It is also flawed in the follow-up to pointed out shortcomings in independent preschools. We Moderates want to review the supervision system regarding preschools and change today's municipal responsibility, because it is important that we have a clear follow-up of the quality of all preschools in Sweden. Over many municipalities and independent preschools is currently hanging a dark cloud spelled: profit limitation in welfare. I would say that the proposal will strike the hardest against pre-school activities. The vast majority of preschool companies are small. More than half have fewer than 10 employees. Today, about 20 per cent of pre-school children in Sweden go to independent preschools. According to the only serious impact study carried out – it has been carried out by Pricewaterhouse Coopers – about 80 per cent of these small companies will not make it if the proposal that will be put on Parliament's table now becomes a reality. Apart from the fact that it affects both staff and pupils out in preschools, and already today has caused a great deal of concern out in independent preschools, it is a disaster for those municipalities that are struggling to get enough preschool places. According to SKL, over the next three years 600 seats are needed only to maintain the status quo in terms of group sizes and other things. If you then have the ambition to make things better, smaller groups and higher staff density, more departments and even more preschools are needed. We Moderates want serious actors who run preschools, and we want high demands on those who operate. We want clear quality requirements, preferably measurable knowledge goals. We want a tough follow-up. It promotes quality and guarantees freedom of choice. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1044	Madam President, I would like We are in fact in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of reservations 2 and 12. This is by far the most important part for our children, and I mean all the way for the children in the school system. Madam President, I would like Eighty percent of what we learn in life we learn before the age of six. It's the big learning period. How much facts and science, then, have we taken on board when it comes to preschool? Unfortunately, far too little. We could improve the system in different ways, both by looking at what we did earlier in Sweden and by looking at how other countries work with the small children. Here we have a lot to work with and a lot to absorb. Madam President, I would like I have three small children myself, and if it is something that I have appreciated with preschool, it is that they practise very much in the Swedish language in all different forms. Especially in the game, you learn to cooperate, converse, and talk with the other children. The smallest lady is three years old and learned to talk two years ago, and I don't know if she's been quiet for a single moment ever since. But perhaps it's positive that she really tries to practice, and that's exactly what children do at that age. They constantly repeat songs, sounds and sounds. They constantly train their verbal ability. If you are in a far too large group of children and too few adults, then we have a problem because then you disappear as the small individual. Children should learn to get dressed, to eat and so on. Very much of this is done in the home. But preschool is supposed to give children the opportunity to repeat. Many children are single children and may not get the chance to be bumped and wet with other children at home, and in this respect preschool is unique. Then what have we done? Is the salaries and working environment for the staff so good that everyone says yes, thank you to apply to the profession of supervisor? No, unfortunately that is not the case. For many years, the salaries of supervisors have fallen behind, and the responsibility for the working environment has not been passed on to a government principal, as it should be, but rather to each individual municipality. Here we can see very good municipalities but also municipalities that have failed in this role. Madam President, I would like What kind of proposal does SD have? Well, we have a number of cane horses that we could contribute to improving what I have mentioned. We want to ensure that wages are raised and the working environment improved. We also look at small things that may seem elementary, like food. How important is it for these young children to eat the right food, that the food ends up in their mouths, and that they learn to like the different dishes? For the little children, it usually becomes a sacred moment every time they eat. Then what's in the food? Is the food in preschool better than the food we offer our prisoners in Swedish prisons? Is it better than the food we can buy at a restaurant? Is it better than the food we offer our elderly? It would be very interesting to make a study of how high quality food is in all 290 municipalities in Sweden, because if it is something that the municipalities have become good at since they became principals it is, unfortunately, to reduce food and not have the best quality. We want evidence-based knowledge for these children. We want the educators to be further educated in children's learning and play, which is unfortunately substandard in this case. We do not want gender-based knowledge. Children are children, regardless of gender. The important thing is that it is evidence-based what children are taught and that it is anchored. How do you train small children? We Swedish democrats want it to happen very much through the free play with different things that train language and cooperation. Such elementary things as being able to sit still, which is important when you then start school, is also an important part. The mother tongue has been mentioned here before. The Swedish Democrats do not think that native language education is something that should be conducted in preschool education. Swedish should be the language that is always spoken. Is it that you want a multilingual child – absolutely – but then the Swedish Democrats believe that it is the responsibility of the parents. There's nothing negative about it, but it's not the responsibility of the school. There are also a number of children who are called special, Madam President. What do special gifts mean? Yes, the children who do not receive enough education in preschool. This problem is very often imposed on educators to try to solve even though they do not have the right tools, for unfortunately the teacher training contains far too little to stimulate the special children. We have proposed a childcare allowance. Now we know there's a shortage of preschool teachers. Of course, we want as many as possible to go into preschool. But we may have to look at alternative solutions. The childcare allowance that we have proposed simply means that, instead of throwing your child into preschool as early as possible, perhaps at the age of one year, you can use the childcare allowance and share it with relatives such as grandmother, grandfather, grandmother and grandfather — people around the child normally. There is a solution here that we can come up with. We have also proposed that day - care providers, or day - care mothers, in more common speeches, have a chance to come back. When we have extremely large hills with children, the premises are not enough. Then the day nurse or day care provider is an ultimate solution, because there is already room in the home, and there is no need to build more premises that may then be empty after the big bank wools have passed. However, the municipalities have made it almost financially impossible for people to operate as day care workers. As a new parent, it is incredibly important to get bumped, wet and talk to other adults and see that you are not completely alone in your situation. As I said, I have three children myself. I went to the open preschool, and it was actually a rescue. You got some air under your wings. You got a cup of coffee and heard other parents talk about the same problems you experienced. It's a unique opportunity. Unfortunately, we see that the open preschool is closed down in the municipality by municipality, because it is a cost issue. But the Swedish Democrats believe that the open preschool is incredibly important both for the children and also for the parents, simply for the well-being. We are also pushing the issue of night ice. Now I know that the government has a proposal for night ice to be enforced more or less. We have not yet seen that it has been fully achieved. That is why the question remains. But we know that you run the line that night ice should be in every municipality. We also have an issue that we call parental cooperatives. What is the problem with the parent cooperatives? Yes, it is that the administrative burden is so great. When parent cooperatives are closed down, it is often not because the personal commitment is missing or not because the children do not want to go there, but because the administrative burden has become so heavy. Again, with a government headship, we could help and support in these parts. The municipalities do not have the same interest as I think we should have from above. Madam President, I would like Previous speakers have spoken about the lack of preschool teachers. Children's litters are getting bigger and we don't have enough preschool teachers. We have a solution with day care workers. We have a solution with child care allowance for relatives, which can be extended so that children can stay at home, which is actually the safest place for young children. What, then, is the problem? Previously, the nursery education was two years old. It has expanded and become longer. Peer training has also become longer. I am not saying that long education is negative, absolutely not. It can be good in many cases if it contains the right things. Unfortunately, the salary does not correspond to the number of years you read. That is why we from the Swedish Democrats propose the alternative solutions.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1064	Madam President, I would like There are many things in Stefan Jakobsson's speech that you can lift up, but there are two things I want to focus on. One thing's about the food. I agree that good food is important in preschool. If it is possible to have a cooking kitchen, it can in many cases lead to higher quality, but there is no automatic similarity between them. On this particular issue there are several aspects, including municipal self-government. Where did it go? I do not know what municipal experience Stefan Jakobsson has, but I have spent twelve years in municipal politics. Reconstructing existing preschools without cooking kitchens for cooking kitchens is a huge cost. Where is that money going to be taken? There is an agreement between the state and the municipality on the financing principle. There will be a rather large hole in the pre-school budget that could otherwise go to improving the educational quality. There is another issue I would like to address. Stefan Jakobsson said in his speech that evidence is important. Scientific grounds are included in the School Act. There is a lot of research that shows that it is important to develop your native language if you have a native language other than Swedish. During the visits I have made, I have seen that today there are many fantastic digital aids to support children with a different native language even in preschool. What research do you have as a basis for completely removing native language support? This applies in both preschool and comprehensive school, even if we are talking here about preschool. The research I have seen clearly shows that it is important to develop both languages.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1069	Madam President, I would like I will take the questions in turn as my colleague raised them. First, there was the matter of food and cooking kitchens. Cocks are the most important thing. How are we going to get Swedish chefs to want to work in school? I have seen a simple solution, namely to give the chefs the freedom they need to cook food. This is done by removing all the schedules available for what food is to be served on which day. Give them the opportunity and freedom to be chefs. Cocks are also parents of young children. They don't want to work at night either. In this way you can attract them to become chefs in cooking kitchens at school. How are we going to find out? How are we going to resolve these issues? We have driven the line of having a government headship even over the food. We have put forward proposals for government heads over many parts. This is one of the things that we think is good to add, namely to have a government headship all over the food. I do not expect Maria Stockhaus to read our budget as a night's lecture, but we have put away money in our budget to invest in food. I know the cost of building a new cooking kitchen, which is somewhere between 100,000 and 200,000. It is the basic cost of converting a regular kitchen into a cooking kitchen. 45 – 50 percent of the kitchens in Sweden today are already cooking kitchens. We have put the money in our budget, and it is there. I shall return to Question No 2 and ask Maria Stockhaus to ask the question again because I see that my speaking time is running out.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1075	Madam President, I would like The question wasn't about cooks. From what I have heard, it is attractive to work as a chef in a preschool or school precisely because the working hours are completely different from working in a restaurant. Although there is a shortage of chefs, it is still attractive to work in a preschool or school. I do not know what reality Stefan Jakobsson is living in, and I do not know where you have received the information that it costs 100 000 – 200 000 to convert a reception kitchen into a cooking kitchen. In my world, it sounds at the bottom of my mind, if I speak with caution. There are many EU rules on kitchens, and there are also limitations within the walls of a preschool. One would probably need to expand to fit a cooking kitchen. I get even more confused when Stefan Jakobsson talks about a government headship for food in preschool. I see many practical problems. I don't know if you've thought about this in the end. In my world, where I used to be a municipal politician, it makes no sense to lift a small part of preschool activity and leave it to the state to take responsibility for it. In the best of worlds, where there are cooking kitchens, the chef and kitchen staff are an asset in the business, and now they are to be employed by the state. I can see one or another complication, and it removes the focus from what is far more important issues in preschool than moving over the head of the food.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1078	Madam President, I would like Of course, we are not just discussing food and chefs. The Swedish democrats have taken a great deal of control over state leadership, and this applies in principle to all around the staff around the teachers. Let the teachers be teachers and focus on that part. In two three countries I have visited when travelling around the world, I have seen that these issues have been managed in this way. Is it difficult to do this in Sweden? Of course, it's not easy to turn everything around. But if we are to dare to improve the Swedish school results, we must start with all the external things around. If we are to create an equivalence in the Swedish school system in Sweden, we need to remove things that can affect the numbers in different levels. School health care is another issue we are looking at carefully. Here we know that the municipalities unfortunately cut back a lot and rarely reinstate once a municipal budget goes a little bit plus. It's about a government headship not just over food but all around. But we have too little time to take that debate here. Then there was the question of evidence-based research. I know that there is research from Denmark that says one thing, and there is research from elsewhere that says other things. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that the Swedish school system should speak Swedish. If you want to speak other languages, or even several languages at all, we believe that it is the role of parents to take that part. Yes, there are many digital aids, and we are not saying that they should be banned. At the same time, we see that the digital world is increasingly taking over the children's world. Several results have shown in recent months that children who read books are better at studying than children who are constantly doing toads. I think we can have a longer discussion in a different debate than here. Now we only have a few seconds. If you want to speak your native language, please do so, but do so at home with the help of your parents, not for Swedish taxpayers' money.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1083	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, we only ask for reservation 15. We MPs in the Education Committee make many visits out in reality. We visit many amazing schools and preschools. We meet preschool managers, staff, children and parents who are extremely aware that preschool is of a fantastic high quality. At the same time, we meet some parents, preschool teachers and managers who are concerned about the development of the municipalities. It is clear that we all feel a great responsibility to ensure that the quality of all children is as good as possible. Former speakers in the debate are talking about nationalizing the diet. It scares me a little when we really talk about other important issues, such as learning. Preschool is the first step in the entire school system, and it is clear that it is an extremely important activity. For the Center Party there are, above all, four important points in order for pre-schools to continue to develop in the positive way for which they are built now. These include freedom of choice in childcare and preschool. It is about the possibility of choosing a direction that also suits the family. It can be about everything from what times the preschool is available to different educational orientations. I believe that the Swedish model is important in this respect. As Maria Stockhaus raised in her speech, I am concerned about the debate on welfare gains. It is about limiting the opportunities for parents to choose preschools with different educational orientations that are positive for children's learning. Another part that is important to us is to work to ensure that children's groups are of a size where you can have good quality. It is different in different parts; that is why we have not provided for a certain ceiling, but it is clear that depending on resources of different kinds, there should also be restrictions in different ways. We also want it to be more attractive to work in preschool. There are probably many different parts, but the educational leadership is a very important part. Stefan Jakobsson says that everything would be better if you nationalised everything from food to the staff in preschool. It is another important part to lift up – that we have an amazing preschool. To then start talking about another headship feels incredibly strange because we can build on much of the quality that exists. Let me now come to the fourth point. It is about opportunities for newly arrived parents and what is about integration preschool, which is another very important part to see the way into the Swedish school and the opportunity for children who are relatively newly arrived in Sweden to enter. Then I will also come partly to what previous speakers have mentioned – that language is of no importance. For Sweden, it is extremely important that people have good language skills. I think it is positive that you can be multilingual from an early age. The existence of bilingual and multilingual preschools is a quality sign in our country. A while ago I had the privilege of making a visit to a preschool in Vänersborg with only children of different origins from Swedish. A great deal of effort is being made in languages, and it is clear that in different ways it is based on the children's mother tongue. You can follow the school on its blog – it's about learning preschool and fantastically competent staff who work a lot with language development, take advantage of the children's mother tongue and the Swedish language and in a fantastic mix make sure that learning and development is as good as possible. Madam President, I would like It is clear that, in addition to all the amazing activities that exist, we also see the lack of pre-school teachers. We want to raise the possibility of development in different ways. During its reign, the Alliance made efforts in terms of both continuing training and other opportunities to grow in the pre-colleague profession. We have also looked at ways to further educate themselves linked to child care workers and so on. It is of course important to make continued efforts there – not least after the autumn elections, as we have hopes of being able to do it in a really good way. Several have mentioned in the debate that they have had children of their own in preschool. Of course, we all know how important children's nurses and preschool teachers are to our children. If I may mention my own positive memory, I would like to mention all the development discussions in which you get to know the work your own children have done – it could be drawings, stories or small films. It's amazing to see; it's a feast. The fact that there are staff who see this learning and actively work with it is an important part of the quality work that takes place in preschool. Now, Madam President, I would like to touch on another part of which I regard as important and on which we also have a reservation. It's about supervision. It is clear that even the independent preschools would need a different supervisory head than the municipalities. In order to ensure that there is equal supervision of preschools throughout Sweden, it would be natural. There the majority have said that nothing can be done or can be said about anything until the School Authority's report is completed. But it is clear that it is important to review it so that supervision is equivalent in different ways. At the end of the speech, let me turn to what was also included in the introduction, namely what is about profits in welfare. Maria Stockhaus mentioned the PWC investigation, which concerns the closure of as many as eight out of ten independent schools or preschools. I don't know if you also read the article in the Montessori newspaper where a principal said: I'm very worried that, on the one hand, you should limit the possibility of having a stable economy in the business and, on the other hand, require stable finances for someone to start or run preschools. It kind of doesn't make sense. I am not sure that we will hear anything about it in today's debate, but I think that many voters are thinking a lot about how to put this together. It is clear that if a preschool with no operational capital were to have a surplus of perhaps SEK 45 000, it would consider how it would be about a stable economy. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that I am extremely proud of all the preschools and family day-care centres that every day do their utmost to enable our children to discover, learn, sing, rhyme, count, read for – everything that makes you develop as an individual and continue to learn. At the same time, I want to make it clear that we see with concern that development is not equal across the country and that, in dialogue with our municipal politicians, we naturally want to do everything to support positive development and provide even better conditions for the world's best preschool to remain at the top – for the sake of children.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1103	Madam President, I would like I'll be pretty brief. We're discussing the government's headship. It's easy to make fun of it and pretend it's just the food. But we are talking about the school doctors, the school nurses, the curators, the premises, the external environments, sound, air, light and surface, all that. During the time we were teachers ourselves – I know that the colleague opposite me has also worked in school, Madam President – we know what happened to those things. What has happened in concrete terms is that since 1991 the money for the school has been cut by the municipalities, piece by piece. They began by dismissing the staff around us, which allowed us teachers to be school doctors, school nurses, caretakers, and all that as it was cut down. It has rarely if ever been reinstated to such things. You let the premises fall apart because you think that in four years' time we do not decide in this municipality, so you shoot that cost ahead of you. The Swedish Democrats want a government headship. My question to Ulrika is: What solutions does the Center have to deal with this? We know what happens in December every year. Then you sit and buy anything for the money that is left in the budget, because if you do not burn the money in the budget, the municipal politicians will say: Then we can lower the budget. I don't know how much paper, erasers and pens teachers can buy – or in my case, as sports teacher, old basketballs that we can have for years. In this case, we also have an issue of equivalence raised by Ulrika. The question of equivalence here is student money, which can distinguish 30 000 SEK between municipalities. With a government head office and a digital pupil money, it would also be equivalence. Madam President, I would like It's easy to stand here and ridicule the government's headmanship, but what's the Center's solution to all these issues?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1110	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it feels like we're living in different worlds. My belief and that of the Center Party in a positive development is that decisions are made as close as possible to the people who depend on them. Yes, I have been a teacher for over 30 years, although I have been a Member of Parliament for the past few years. But I've never ever gone in and been either a school doctor or a janitor or anything else. Then, as a teacher, you may support somewhere. Decisions made as close to people as possible also ensure that you know the reality and that you make real and important efforts. My image of a politically active man or woman in a large or small municipality is not that you see preschool as a saving opportunity, but you see the children's opportunities to develop. Then I know that we are trying to turn economic conditions around so that we can get the money to go. You need to expand preschool and so on, and it costs money. Long-term sustainable economic development is needed. But it is not a question of sitting and trading at the end of each year. My view of the municipalities I am aware of is that both surpluses and deficits can be taken with them and responsibility for more than one financial year at a time. I do not recognize Stefan Jakobsson's reality – that you would buy a lot of basketballs so that you have in time and eternity to come. My picture is that in a responsible way you are thinking about which part to do this. Therefore, the Center Party has also said that we do not think you should have all these different targeted state grants to the municipalities for perhaps 85 different things that they should apply for and report back. We want to see a state grant that is earmarked for the school but for which each municipality is responsible.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1115	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is difficult to answer all the questions I asked. Maybe there were too many at once. But let us remain on the question of whether surplus or deficit can be taken with it. I've worked as a teacher in five different municipalities. Unfortunately, my picture is not the same as Ulrika Carlsson. In none of the five municipalities – I have worked in both large and small municipalities – the school has been responsible for its own budget to such an extent that you can keep the surplus. Most of the time, the surplus has been rumored. I have even had principals who have given directives to act in such a way that the budget is actually achieved. I have also worked in municipalities where you have had a stoppage and a stoppage from day one because the budget has not been able to be kept. It is not so fun to start as a teacher and know that you do not get any training and cannot buy in material, but you should nevertheless entertain the children and make sure that they learn everything that the curricula require. Maybe it's different worlds we live in. If so, I would have liked to have worked in the municipalities that Ulrika Carlsson has worked in. As far as welfare gains are concerned, we do not need to debate here. We fully agree on supervision, and we fully agree on the issue of welfare gains. We must ensure that both the smallest and the largest can continue working with the school. So we do not need to have that discussion. Ulrika sees difficulties working with different principals. I don't have to look any further than around me here. We have lots of different heads here in Parliament, but we cooperate well anyway. I see no difficulty in certain parts of the school having a government principal and some share a municipal principal. I see that as a possible solution. There are other countries that have this today. We don't have to invent the wheel ourselves.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1119	Madam President, I would like Then I will do my best to answer all the questions that Member Jakobsson has asked. I did not hear so many in the second post. Stefan Jakobsson talks about municipal and state principals. He has mentioned that the food should be nationalised and that the school should be nationalised. I don't really see what would be the municipal in this. There was talk of rebuilding kitchens for a couple of hundred thousand. With procurement, that's not even possible. I didn't hear any questions about profits in welfare. It was mentioned that there was a great deal of difference about student money. Did Stefan Jakobsson mean preschool here, or did he mean elementary school? Since we are debating preschool now, I may not have to answer that part. Of course, you can do different things for the resources you have. It is important to be resource efficient in different ways. I regret that there are some principals who do not accept their responsibilities but might need to have other supervision. This has been said by several of the alliance parties, including the Center Party. Regardless of the principal, it is important to review the quality of the school, and it is important to have supervision that has little muscle. Many times support is also needed. There are many projects that are about strengthening quality. School authorities have also made important efforts to improve the quality of schools and preschools. The question that I finally perceive as the biggest in Stefan Jakobsson's first speech was how to make the business better. For the Center Party, it is about decisions being made close to people. It is also there that we can have dialogue between politicians and users and in different ways create long-term sustainable development to give all children the best opportunities.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1124	Madam President, I would like As an advocate of nationalising school activities, I have to say that it is extremely strange to talk about nationalising school food as the most important issue today. But we can think differently. The Left Party believes that preschool is a right and an opportunity for all children. We have therefore contributed over the years to reforms of pre-schools that have increased accessibility and improved quality. These reforms include maximum rates, state grants for staff enhancement and other quality improvement measures, the right to pre-school for children of the unemployed and on parental leave, general preschools, the curriculum for preschools and clarification of pedagogical responsibilities. Fortunately, there has been quite a lot of consensus in this Parliament about preschool. The purposeful focus on preschools in Sweden has made it, as has been pointed out here before, take on a special position internationally in terms of accessibility, quality and educational development. In addition, it belongs to the institutions of Swedish society that enjoy the greatest confidence among the population. Most important, however, is that the children who attend preschool appreciate it. Good childcare is as important for children's development as a good school, if not more important. Therefore, the right to good childcare for all children should also be self-evident. Good childcare is also a prerequisite for women and men to be able to work on equal terms. That is why it is also a feminist effort. We want an educational activity with as high quality as possible. We therefore opposed the introduction of a childcare allowance. Childcare allowance means that all municipalities are forced to introduce a system without taking any account of local conditions. Unfortunately, there are major shortcomings in educational childcare. In a report from 2016, the Swedish School Inspectorate notes that the number of individual authorities in the field of educational childcare has increased, while the Swedish National Agency for Education concluded in 2012 that a market has emerged in the field of educational care, where individual authorities compete with each other and with municipalities as principals. Companies sometimes also take advantage of the fact that it is today the right of establishment for pre-school activities. At the same time, the School Inspectorate warns that children in the organisation may risk being under-stimulated if the person in charge lacks educational competence or if there are no children of the same age in the group. In small groups of many different ages, some children are at risk of being squeezed when the business cannot be adapted to everyone. The Swedish School Inspectorate also warns that they have visited activities where day care providers have had a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language, which has made it difficult for children to communicate. The Left Party sees the importance of giving all children the opportunity to attend preschool in order to develop to their full potential. At the same time, we realise that it is not possible to abolish educational care in all places. For example, in rural and rural areas, it may be particularly difficult to solve childcare with the current options. There may also be a need for consideration of older staff who have worked with this throughout their working life. However, we believe that the issue of the long-term abolition of educational childcare needs to be investigated. A prerequisite for a really good school system is that it focuses on what is most important. Quality and needs should always come first, not the opportunity to enrich themselves in the business. In school and preschool there should be staff so that each child receives the support they need, something that must not be prioritised down to create profit distribution to the owners. To get there, the school needs to be commercialized, and so does preschool. The Left Party believes that the goal of the school should be to give all children the best learning, knowledge and care, not to generate profit to private companies. Sweden is today one of the most extreme countries in this particular area. That is why we are pleased to have put forward, together with the government, a proposal on welfare gains. This has now finally come to light as a result of the profit investigation that Ilmar Reepalu has produced. I would also like to apologise here and now for having to leave in advance to talk about this issue with Ilmar Reepalu at a lecture here in Stockholm. Previous efforts are something we in the Left Party think it is important to invest in. We want to continue developing preschool. Therefore, it is also important to help and support children in need of special support already in preschool. Early intervention will make it easier for these children in preschool, school and the rest of their lives. According to the pre-school curriculum, activities must provide incentives and special support for children who are in difficulties of various kinds. Today, there is very little follow-up on whether the curriculum is actually being followed, as well as how it works in the transition from preschool to preschool class.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1135	Finally, I would like to comment on what was said about mother tongue education. In fact, there is no need for any further comment beyond what Maria Stockhaus from the Moderates has raised. But again, it may seem strange to say from the pulpit of Parliament things about mother tongue teaching that have nothing to do with research or with the reality in which millions of people in this country live. Moreover, to say that you should speak your native language but do it at home is one way of looking at the issue that I do not mean belongs in a knowledge-friendly congregation, as the Riksdag should be. That is why, as Maria Stockhaus has done, I would like to strike a blow for what research clearly says, namely: put your money into the mother tongue, and invest even more in the mother tongue! It helps the students, and in this case the children, also in other subjects and in the future. Having said that, I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation No 14.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1137	Madam President, I would like It was nice to hear that we are in agreement. It is not often a moderate receives praise from a left-wing party in this House, so it is important to enjoy the moment. However, I have a few other things in which we disagree. Some concern childcare allowances. It was introduced so that more types of educational activities could be opened up to smaller children and that children could be in a calmer environment if they need it and if parents consider it appropriate. But it was also introduced to ensure that parents have the right to choose between different preschools. If the childcare allowance is removed and the consequences of Reepalus's investigation are also taken into account, the choice of parents will be limited. I'm a little curious about how the Left Party has planned it all when it comes to the possibility for parents to influence in which preschool their children are going. Is it important? Or should we ignore it altogether and have a central queue where an official sits and sorts out the children in the different preschools according to some– I don't know what they would use – criteria? Should parents not be able to influence the everyday life of their children when they are forced to work?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. It really goes hand in hand with what may differ most when it comes to how Swedish schools and preschools should be conducted. In the Left Party's world, we believe that all preschools should be good, and we believe that all schools should be good. We believe that people should have the opportunity to choose, but it should be on the basis of certain specific reasons. We will have a system that guarantees all people, no matter where they live in the country, good preschools and good schools. In the world of Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates, you want a system that means that there should be bad and good alternatives and that one based on this should choose. Who really has the choice? Is it really the parents? How long do parents have to wait in line for the most popular preschools today? How many percent of parents who want their children to attend the most popular preschools can really make sure that their children go there? On the other hand, who, as I said, has freedom of choice? Is it not those who have the right of establishment, when a municipality can in principle in no way prevent a free preschool from being established regardless of whether there is a need or not in the municipality? This applies regardless of whether the person who starts preschool has something to do with preschool activities or not, or whether someone is just looking to make money. There we see major flaws, and that is what Ilmar Reepalus's investigation will put an end to – not freedom of choice. That's not what the investigation is all about. You can read it as you want, just as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other friends of Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates do. But we choose to do it in a different way and go after what is actually in the investigation, and there it is about increasing the quality of Swedish welfare.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1144	Madam President, I would like I have found one more thing that we agree on, and that's that all preschools should be good. I fully agree with Daniel Riazat. Then they can be good in different ways. They can have different educational orientations, such as outdoor pedagogy or Montessori pedagogy. You can have different types of focus on different preschools. That is why it is important for parents to choose. I got caught up in something that Daniel Riazat said, namely that one should have special reasons for choosing. What specific reasons should be required for a parent to have an influence in which preschool their children are going to attend? It goes without saying that it is the parents' choices that must weigh the most. Of course, in some parts of the country there are small preschools that have a high pressure, which means that not everyone can get exactly the place that you want. But over the kingdom at large, many still get their first choice. Daniel Riazat now expresses himself as he does and says that parents should have special reasons for choosing. Doesn't the Left Party think that all parents should have the opportunity to choose preschool?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1147	Madam President, I would like We must agree that we do not agree in this case, because we absolutely do not agree with each other, Maria Stockhaus, that all preschools should be good preschools. If we had both thought that all preschools should be good preschools, we would also have had a common view when it comes to investments in preschools and staff, both at local and national level. You would have had a completely different view when it comes to greedy actors – who in many cases are Maria Stockhaus' party comrades – who have only entered Swedish welfare to be able to take part in our tax money, make a profit on it and bring it out of this country. Of course, not all actors in preschool are in this way, nor are all free actors. For example, there are cooperatives and other actors who are absolutely fantastic. The only problem is that they're knocked out and bought up. That is what it has looked like in Swedish welfare in recent years. The actors who are there to help our children seriously and to help strengthen the knowledge of our nation are being knocked out while those who are in the system because of the money are left behind. This is the result of the world's most extreme privatisation policy, to which the Moderates contributed during their years in power. Maria Stockhaus needs to separate two things. One is the profit investigation. There is nothing at all there about restricting freedom of choice. As I said, this is not the issue. The second is the question of the policy of the Left Party beyond what we have agreed in the profit investigation. We believe that all parents, regardless of where they live in the country, should be able to trust that there is a preschool or a school nearby that is good and of high quality. The Moderates and Maria Stockhaus do not think so, and then it will be you, Maria, who is guilty of the answer.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1150	Madam President, I would like The MP Riazat starts by making fun of the food. But I know that we are in fact in agreement that we want to nationalise the school. Then you may have to make fun of little things. Instead, let us look at something else, Madam President, on which we agree. It's about the special children. I know what concrete proposals the Swedish Democrats have to change this. It is therefore a question of concrete proposals and not of political flumbing. I would like to know: What suggestions does the Left have to take care of the special children in preschool?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1152	Madam President, I would like Unlike the Swedish Democrats, I do not consider myself an expert when it comes to every effort for the children in need of special support. What we believe in the Left Party is precisely that we should have greater confidence in the profession and that we must trust the research in this case. An investigation by the government and a broader agreement between parties can be set up to determine what action is really needed. As I said, we in this House are not experts and officials, and for a reason. We are elected representatives, who are to represent a certain direction and ideology and pursue a policy that we support. Then we think it should be done based on what the profession and research says. In this case, we have heard that research says that there is far too little follow-up on whether the curriculum is actually being followed when it comes to specific support. More needs to be done there. We believe that there is a need for more follow-up. Before there is a follow-up, it is also difficult to say exactly what is needed. The same applies to the transition between preschool and preschool class.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1154	Madam President, I would like I'll have to be a little more specific. I do not mean, of course, which tools should be picked up and which programs should be ordered to which students. I'm not assuming that everyone in here needs to be able, absolutely not. But we know that teacher education is unfortunately a little disconnected from this science and evidence base. We know that the special children are unfortunately suffering in preschool today – not because we do not have the right tools, but because we have a teacher training that unfortunately does not have time. This was my question. Is Daniel Riazat prepared to look with his party at the fact that teacher education must begin to contain those things so that the teachers who come out to schools from today actually have the right tools with them and can help and support these children?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1157	Madam President, I would like On a number of occasions, I have re-used certain additions to teacher training. Among other things, we have talked about what Stefan Jakobsson does not consider to be scientifically proven, namely the gender issue, which the research world considers to be scientific. We have also talked about knowledge about LGBTQ people and LGBTQ issues in general. We have talked about anti-racism and children in need of special support. This is nothing new for the Left Party, and it is something that we have proposed a long time before. On the other hand, we believe that research and the profession must have more say in terms of precise design. I hope that's not for Stefan Jakobsson to decide.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1160	Madam President, I would like Children are usually unpredictable. You can get answers to questions you didn't think you'd get answers in and in a way that you thought was impossible. They use the language in a way they didn't think it could be used in, and they use tools in ways they weren't supposed to be used in. Children are unpredictable in a way that political debates rarely are – rather, they are sometimes very predictable. It was not surprising that Daniel Riazat attacked independent preschools as he always does in debates. It was a pity he left now, because I would like an answer from the Left Party. We will see the issue as rhetorical until the next debate on preschool. If the proposals now being made by the Left Party were to be implemented, it would probably mean that quite a few preschools that currently exist would be closed down. Quite a few children attending those preschools would lose their place, and quite a few parents who have placed their children there would lose their children's preschool. You can then imagine that that will work out later by public preschools showing up instead, but it is clear that that year or those months when the child actually does not have a preschool place or you do not know where to put your child affects. The Left Party and I agree that preschool is very important for children's long-term development. It is clear that that short period of uncertainty will record for the children, and they will be able to draw on that uncertainty for quite a long time. Speaking of predictability, I am thinking of Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats. In their reservations and when you listen to Stefan Jakobsson there is almost no cheer on what preschool can actually do. I am not going to mention this with nationalisation, but in the reservations the Swedish Democrats highlight the importance of children learning to eat properly and that they learn to eat the right food. They will learn to build with blocks of different kinds of materials, probably also different types of block formations. They should learn to sit still, according to the reservations, and they should also learn to play, talk and count according to speech and reservations. They're about to learn everything in preschool. I think Stefan Jakobsson mentioned that you learn 80 percent of everything you learn in life these first years. However, there is one thing that should not be learned, and that is to see that there are unequal structures in society. The Swedish Democrats have a reservation that says that children should develop in the direction that is natural to them, and therefore you should not engage in gender equality in preschool. That too is quite predictable. You should eat, you should build, you should sit, you should talk, you should play, but during this playing, sitting and eating you should not see that it is actually that we have come a long way in Swedish society when it comes to gender equality but that girls and boys still get different opportunities. It says a lot about SD, but it also says a lot about preschool opportunities. Preschool can really make a big difference for a child. I was going to talk a little bit about it later, because I think, as everyone else here has said, preschool is amazing. Especially Swedish preschool is really amazing in an international perspective. You can learn a lot, you can develop a lot and, which I think is particularly important, you can see things that you would not otherwise have seen. That's why preschool is so central. Children are given the opportunity to discover things they would not discover if they did not attend preschool. That's why I and the Liberals are thinking about how to make sure that more people get to preschool. We know that there are quite a few who attend Swedish preschools and that they are growing more and more over the years, but they still only come up to about 80 percent of the children who are four or five years old. The last 20% do not meet preschool because their parents are home because of unemployment or exclusion. I would like those children also to have the chance to attend preschool. Because those particular children, who are then at risk of falling behind in school, are particularly important. A good start in preschool means that you pass the school better. Therefore, preschools have an incredibly important compensatory mission, an emancipatory mission, one could almost say. The pedagogy that we have in Swedish preschool, the curriculum that we have for Swedish school and that has also been updated and improved, is absolutely fantastic at ensuring that people can develop into something completely different from what they were born into. That's why I and the Liberals think Swedish preschool is fantastic. There are shortcomings. One such shortcoming is that we have large differences between different municipalities but also between different preschools. This is partly due to leadership, but it may also be that we have a great shortage of preschool teachers in some places. It is not surprising that we have it, because the introductory profession is another public, academic, women-dominated profession with low pay, fairly long education and very few career paths. We need to see the whole structure of how we work with this particular type of profession. As many others have said, preschool is also the first step in education, and it is an important first step. It stimulates children's development, prepares for school, evens out the chances of life and thus also increases equivalence. By making sure to give children a good start, the background plays a less important role in how the future will be. The compensatory mission must also be strengthened by ensuring that money is also given in preschool on the basis of the socio-economic challenges that exist. That is also why, Madam President, I would like more people to attend preschool. Those who need the school most must also be allowed to come to preschool early, because then they also have a better chance of success and then preschool has the smoothing effect on the life chances that I think the education system as a whole should have. As far as quality is concerned, we do not just need to ensure that more pre-school teachers are present and more are trained and remain in the profession. We must also have a better inspection to ensure that preschool activities are equally good in all places. We would also need clarity when it comes to all preschool groups being led by preschool teachers. We would need the open preschools, which I also think are very good, to have a clearer connection to the preschool and preschool curriculum to ensure that there is also a compensatory effect. We would need groups of reasonable size. It varies quite a lot across the country and between different preschools and different municipalities. In this, with a reasonable size, it is also a question of making it possible to carry out the educational mission of the preschool. Madam President, I would like I think we can be very proud of Swedish preschool, but it can be much better. If it gets much better, Swedish schools will also deliver much better. I would like to express my support for reservation No 3.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1181	Madam President, I would like It's always fun to debate with Christer. He finds the small examples. Of course, we have written that a free play should dominate in preschool. In the free play, children train on social skills, collaboration, creativity and initiative. We have also mentioned a few other things as examples, such as blocks. It is fun that at least one Member of Parliament reads the documents properly. Turning to the report and looking at gender equality, it says that there is also a need for a feminist-conscious pre-school policy. It is the Liberals who are pushing that question. Madam President, I would like If there's anything I've seen in the years that I've worked in school, it's that there's a shortage of male individuals who work in preschool. I don't know how low it is, but I'd be willing to take the chance that we're down to one-digit in that case. Male role models are important. Whether it be boys or girls, it takes a male role model. How does it go with a feminist-conscious pre-school policy?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1186	Madam President, I would like Research also shows that once there's a guy in place in preschool, he'll be doing more building things than playing with other stuff. Once there is a male preschool teacher, he often has a male role in preschool, which means that it does not have the desired effect. I'm curious why Stefan Jakobsson thinks this way. One can like gender research a lot and have different opinions about the Swedish gender researchers' results, activities and so on. But that is not what the Swedish Democrats are actually attacking. Without it it is about the belief that there is a natural development for every human being. I think it is exactly the opposite, that there is no natural development. It can be challenged, and it depends on the context and people you meet. That's why preschool is important. This is where we find ourselves in new contexts that would not otherwise be in place. Does Stefan Jakobsson think that's good? Or does he think there is a ready-made novel written for each child, which the child should follow only naturally?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1190	Madam President, I would like I think about what it has looked like in Sweden all these years. We have always been a fairly open and attractive country, also for many other countries, and we have not pursued any specific feminist-conscious pre-school policy. Nevertheless, children for many years have become bi-, trans- and homosexual- I don't know all the expressions that are here. There's always been. I do not understand why this question should be pursued specifically. The way things look in a preschool today, I think it is already feminist – if it was the Liberals' opinion that it should be. I don't know what that direction really means. Christer will be happy to explain it to me. But when I pick up my children at preschool today and meet the children, it's skirts, pirate clothes, sticks, guns and everything the kids have made up – no matter what sex they have. Children play with what children think is fun at the moment. I don't think we have to go in there and sort it out at adult level. I do not think, above all, that we should specify it in a particular area. Let children be children! They play with what they think is fun.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1193	Madam President, I would like I hope it was recorded in the Minutes that a Swedish democrat said that Sweden is an open country, and that is a good thing. That is the most beautiful thing Stefan Jakobsson has said. I also wish that the policy of the Swedish Democrats would be transparent. I've rarely seen that in practice. For me, being a feminist means seeing that there are structures in society that mean that some people, namely women, are in a worse position than men. If you pursue a feminist policy, you try to show that it is so, and you try to do something about it. For me, feminist politics for preschool is to show that there are expectations that some people should have certain roles and that other people should have other roles. I think you can show that, and through playing learning you can show that there are other ways to be. That was the answer to the question.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1196	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are, of course, behind all their reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 20 and 23. Preschools have been expanded at a very rapid pace. Today, between 80 and 90 percent of all children between one and five years of age go to preschool. A large part of the children's waking time is spent there. It is therefore urgent that preschools are of a very high standard. In addition to stimulating children's development and learning, preschool has an important role to play in creating the security and connection to adults that children need to develop well. If children are not safe in their everyday lives, if they are not seen and if they do not feel involved, most of it can be even. With security in essence, the child will take in knowledge, develop good friendships and feel involved. The basic requirement is that the place the child is in is safe and that care is good. Madam President, I would like Children are different, and in order for all parents to find an alternative that suits them and their children, there must be well-developed childcare facilities with different options. Of course, a prerequisite for good care is that children's groups are sufficiently large, and today there are incentives to reduce the size of children's groups. We Christian Democrats want to spend more resources on reducing the size of children's groups in preschool. Madam President, I would like The school and preschool are based on a clear foundation of values that will permeate the entire business. It is in line with the values on which our democratic society rests, namely: Inviolability of human life The freedom and integrity of the individual 中 the equal value of all human beings
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1205	中 solidarity between us people. That's sweet music for the ears! The school's values are anything but worthless. It's incredibly valuable and crystal clear. Those who work in preschool have an important role in conveying and portraying these values. But it is not just preschool staff that are important to the children. Of course, first of all, the child's parents come. The role of the family in rearing and leading young people is of paramount importance. The public should give priority to actions that strengthen parents' ability to lovingly and positively set limits and support their children. The public sector should also, through various measures, give parents the opportunity to spend more time with their children. Strong cohesion between parents and children reduces the risk of poor school outcomes and of young people falling into unemployment and exclusion and delinquency. But not every child growing up has a good time. Not all parents can handle the parenting role. Here, too, preschool plays an important role in seeing when something has gone wrong, in seeing children get hurt. As a teacher, I myself have been involved in discovering that things are not right in the families. The responsibility and obligation that it means to dare to take the necessary measures, to pay attention and dare to report concerns, can be about the life and death of a child. And it is about complying with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Madam President, I would like It's an election year. What will be the most important question of the elections? It is speculated in all the media, even though it is the media themselves and the opinion institutions that decide which issues we should focus on. But can it not be difficult to establish, definitely, which question should be the most important? It is, of course, the best interests of the children, and what is essential for our children. A lot of the election debates will focus on crime, the gangs in the suburbs, the children and young people who use weapons and terrify. And there will be more severe punishments over and over again. But we do know that no one is born a murderer or a drug addict. No child decides himself, without any special reason, to join a gang that ruthlessly spreads terror and commits crime. This is where we adults, the family and not least preschool staff come in by seeing the children, hearing what they say and receiving signals. We should take them seriously and set an example, show zero tolerance against violations and discrimination, and spread good values, the school's values. Madam President, I would like Children's best interests are the most important question of the elections. It is about promoting and enabling safe and loving growing-up environments and relationships both within the family and in preschool.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1213	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. It is a privilege to stand here today and talk about our very least and what may be crucial for their future and continued schooling. Many in our society may feel anxious and expectant. Perhaps the question is also asked: Does my child receive the care it needs? Is it a good educational and learning environment? Will my children be seen and given the support they need? In Sweden, no one should have to feel such anxiety. You should be able to trust that the nearest preschool is really good. You should feel that the child care and preschool provided should ensure that your child is given exactly the conditions necessary to make it work well. It is our most important task to see all children, to respond to their needs and to support where it is needed. And it all starts with a good preschool. From day one, the Social Democratic-led government has worked to reverse developments in the field of education. We know that when we invest in preschool and school, it is investment in our common future. A cornerstone of the Swedish model – we have heard it before, but I say it again – is a strong and equal school of knowledge where not a single child and not a single student can be left behind. Preschool is a part of our community building. Today, it is an integral part of the school system. It has been and is a prerequisite for growth, an equal labour market and lifelong learning. Together with good parental insurance, preschool is an important reason why the proportion of employed women in Sweden is among the highest in the world. Preschools must be accessible and respond to families' needs for care, whether it is a municipal or independent preschool. It is therefore of the utmost importance that preschools continue to develop. Preschool's supposed to be fun. It should be safe and instructive for all children. Children should be given the opportunity to learn and develop by playing, creating and exploring on their own, in groups and together with adults. Children's groups shall have an appropriate composition and size. Children should be offered a good environment in preschool. Pre-school facilities and equipment should contribute to children's development and their learning. Here it is important to say that it is not only about the internal environment, but also about an exciting and varied outdoor environment. There, children can control their play and feel secure based on their needs. The government's investment in premises and educational outdoor environments I think has been very important. It is unfortunate that all the bourgeois parties do not appreciate the value of this. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, we are keen that preschools continue to develop. It is therefore also important that we actively contribute to this. The Social Democratic-led government has introduced a state grant for more staff in preschool. Since 2015, the grant has been paid out through the National Agency for Education. The interest is very great. Grants of nearly SEK 1 billion have been awarded. I know it makes a difference. In order to further reduce the size of children's groups, the government has also reintroduced benchmarks for the size of the groups. As a result, since 1992 children's groups have not been as small as they are today. It is a much appreciated change, but of course it is not enough. At the same time, we need to talk about how we strengthen and improve the working environment for child care workers and preschool teachers. They need to be better placed to carry out their mission. Here we must work together and together. They need to get more colleagues to support themselves against and support from preschool managers and principals in order for them to complete their educational mission. By engaging and feeling committed, one can contribute to increasing the goal of good quality together – this by seeing the needs of the team and providing opportunities to take part in further training and development efforts. The Teachers' Association and Kommunal have on several occasions raised concerns about the lack of preschool teachers and child care workers. We also share that concern. If we are to succeed in the task of developing preschools, we need to continue to invest in attracting more people to join the profession. The government's investigator Björn Åstrand has proposed that principals be introduced into preschool. For us Social Democrats, it is obvious that preschools should be led by principals with the same good conditions as school principals. I therefore look forward to the government's proposal to strengthen leadership in preschool. Madam President, I would like Through clear training efforts, we can help staff to have the tools needed to carry out their mission in the best possible way. Actions such as math lift and reading lift now also apply to preschool staff. Unlike the bourgeois parties, we prioritise preschool and know that it is the start of young people's learning. For this reason, it is also necessary to give pre-schoolers and child care workers the opportunity to develop their skills. Sometimes you can hear hints that there is too much emphasis on requiring qualified and trained staff, that the important thing is that there are people who show care and take care of the children while the parents are working. This attitude is both wrong and worrying. We know that children who have attended a high-quality preschool are better prepared for school, have better language skills and demonstrate greater social competence compared to children who have not participated in preschool activities. This is particularly true of children who come with tough growing-up conditions and those who have parents with a short education. A good preschool is important to give all children good conditions, and it is therefore important that we continue to develop it. We want and strive for an equal society. That is why it is important to have an equal preschool and to be compensatory. Its great value for children's development is that it gives children security, develops their social interaction and ability to build relationships, and stimulates their curiosity and desire for learning. Cooperation for the best school is one of the Government's initiatives that provides direct state development support to schools with the worst conditions and which has now been extended to include preschools. The Swedish National Agency for Education is now working with support adapted to the specific needs of an increasing number of preschools in the country that have particularly difficult conditions. This is both important and good, while increasing equivalence. Unfortunately, this too is an effort that part of the bourgeoisie is against. Madam President, I would like I see time is running out. But in conclusion, I would like to tell you why I am particularly concerned about the continued development of preschool. I have met children who have many tough experiences in their luggage, and I have seen their eyes when they feel that they are seen, heard and understood. When they feel like part of something big, it's not only beautiful but it also strengthens my conviction about the role of preschool. There are children in Sweden who grow up under extremely heartbreaking conditions. Their opportunities lie in the hands of our amazing preschool teachers and child care workers. That is why, among other things, we must give them confirmation of all the good work they do. They are extremely important. It is, as I said at the outset, about our future and our future social builders. It is therefore important for all children in Sweden to have access to an equal preschool.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1240	Madam President, I would like I want to give you what Roza said earlier: not a child should be left behind. It sounds very beautiful, and I agree that it would be wonderful if that were the case. Unfortunately, however, the reality looks as it does, as Roza so exemplaryly described. That is why we think that perhaps we should not always look blindly at the solutions that exist today. For whom do their children know best? It is most likely the parents. Why, then, cannot we look at alternative solutions where we give parents the opportunity to be at home with their children anymore? We do not need to steer them on the basis of different guidelines on how many days to go to one party and how many to go to the other party. I am absolutely convinced that Swedish parents know best who will stay home with their children. We may not agree here, but I think we can agree that the parents probably have the best care for their children. We have presented other solutions. For example, grandparents should be able to stay at home so that children are not brought into preschool too early. No matter how good preschool is, you are not very strong as an individual when you are a year old; you are basically still a little attached and really need a lot of love, tenderness and, above all, attention from the parents. I also heard that you mentioned the outdoor environment exemplaryly. I agree with that. It's amazing. The problem today is the European Union, and where the Swedish Democrats stand on the European issue we do not need to raise for any longer debate here. But the EU has a lot of rules that put an end to simple things like burying tyres, putting in a boat and filling it with sand or putting in some big logs and stones in the middle of it all. Here EU rules say no, even though it is a fantastic learning environment for children. I grew up in the woods myself. It was amazing to have that opportunity and proximity.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1246	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is difficult to understand why I say that no one should be left behind or that all children should be allowed to take part in a good preschool. I think this is very important, because I believe in preschool pedagogy. I believe that the supervisors and child nurses are best placed to do the pedagogical work and give our children the right conditions to manage their schooling. There is research that says that the children who have attended a high and good quality preschool are also the children who do better in school afterwards. But research may not always be something that the Swedish Democrats highlight as the most important. You deliberately close your eyes to much of the research carried out at our universities because it does not suit your world view. It is worrying when the Committee on Education claims that gender equality and the work against structures and standards are not good for children to be children. I find this very unfortunate. I listened here earlier to Stefan Jakobsson's speech and found it very difficult to concentrate. It feels like a lot of personal opinion, and there is a great lack of research and evidence-based basis in what you say.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1249	Madam President, I would like Whether we base our facts and knowledge on research and such things can be a longer debate on another day. However, I am absolutely convinced of what more than 300 people within our gender have developed with one foot in politics and others in the business. These people have a lot more skills than any of us who are in here, because they work daily in this business. They are also local politicians and contribute a great deal. They sit at all different levels and contribute to the Swedish Democrats with a very good policy that we can pursue. It is a policy that is pragmatic and realistic. I'm not gonna make a defense speech, though. We fully agree that a preschool that has a high and good quality will ensure that children feel better and succeed better in school. That is absolutely the case. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Some preschools are so overdrawn with children that it is more or less about storage. There are alternative solutions to use, I think, to get over the humps that exist. Whether our world views are equal or not, we may already know that this is not the case. My second question has a different focus. I think we agree on the importance of the children having a fixed point in preschool and that it is not too much of a matter among the educators, but that they really stay. The Swedish Democrats have presented something that is like a Singapore model with a completely different pay line and with completely different levels. According to our policy, you should not have to change the municipality in order to get higher wages. Right now hope teachers are starting to work, especially in small municipalities. We are not talking about Arjeplog, but in Stockholm County, for example, it is close between the different municipalities. Here we have a concrete proposal to make the educators stay. You should be able to work in Sweden's smallest municipality and still be the highest paid preschool teacher, because you work in a model that does not require that you change municipality. What solution do the Social Democrats have for this?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1255	Madam President, I would like Now I was reminded that Stefan Jakobsson also talked about the state taking greater responsibility over schools and preschools. At the same time, he says that they have a great deal of knowledge of how it is out there because they have local politicians who stand with one foot in the municipality and do a very good job. I have to say, I'm getting a little confused. With regard to gender equality policy, I would also like to say something. The reason why I and all the other women are in this room is a conscious feminist policy. We women have had to fight our way through so much to be here. If the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to steer and back down the band, none of us would be here, because things don't happen by themselves. There are certain structures that very many men would like to retain. I was talking about reducing children's groups. We will of course make it attractive so that more people apply for pre-school and child care. Children's groups should be smaller so that you can focus on your mission and provide the care and support that children and students need. Now my question becomes rhetorical because this is final. However, I am very provoked when the Swedish Democrats cut 9 billion for Sweden's municipalities. Stefan Jakobsson shakes his head but that's the way it is. We can read it in your budget. It's as simple as that. Everyone in here can do that. How can this help us to continue to develop the Swedish preschool? How can this contribute to more people seeking the position of nurse and pre-college? I can't make this go together.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1259	Madam President, I would like I would like to mention two parts. The first is that the government and you too, Roza, are beating your chest because children's groups have decreased. That they're the smallest since 1992, I think I need to go back and watch. It feels like it would be a very big change. What is serious about this is whether this has had any effect in preschools. I was out at a preschool quite recently, and there they told me that they had a group of 18 children and three staff. On paper they had divided the group into three groups of six children in each. It is clear that this reduces the average enormously, compared to 18. But for the children, there's no difference at all. They're the same staff. They divided the children into groups during part of the day and were together during other parts of the day earlier. For them, this is no different. When staff density is not required to increase, this has no practical effect on preschools. The second issue I would like to raise is that today we have a hundred thousand children and parents in preschool who are concerned about whether their preschool will remain. It is remarkable that the government itself has not carried out an impact assessment of the impact of profit limitation in welfare. A serious accounting firm – one of the most serious in the world, namely Pricewaterhousecoopers – states in its assessment that 80 percent do not make it, and this means that about 80 000 places in preschool will disappear. These preschools are so small and have no operational capital and therefore, in principle, must not make any profit at all. They won't survive. How will municipalities manage to focus on improving the quality of preschools if 80 000 places are lost? For my constituency of Stockholm County, where there is a fairly high proportion of independent preschools, this would be a disaster because, moreover, there are a great many more children in this region.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1264	Madam President, I would like I sometimes wish that the Moderates and the bourgeoisie put just as much effort and energy into making good proposals on how to develop the Swedish preschool as on defending free school groups – large groups that profit from our common resources. We have had this debate. Daniel Riazat has also taken it. Let me be clear where our common resources are going. They're going to the schools and preschools. They will be reinvested in a high-quality business. They're not supposed to go to winnings. That's where we can end it. In your main speech, Maria Stockhaus, you made a very positive point about preschool. You talked about ensuring that the curriculum is equal. You were talking about teacher density, just like you're doing now, about the pre-colleagues getting more and so on. That the free schools may be closed down is just scare propaganda, but you need to look at the number of unauthorized in preschools in free schools. It is lower teacher density and a lower percentage of qualified teachers. How's that equation going to add up?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1267	Madam President, I would like If Roza Güclü Hedin had read our motions, she would have seen that we have very many proposals aimed at improving the quality of preschool. What has been proposed in terms of welfare gains is an imminent threat to large parts of pre-school activities. In preschool, the vast majority of companies are very small. They are often run by female entrepreneurs who wanted to start something new and do something other than what they had the opportunity to do in municipal activities. Roza Güclü Hedin talks about this being scare propaganda. I find it remarkable that such a thorough proposal is being made – which is actually for a very large part of Swedish welfare – without having carried out a serious impact assessment. Pricewaterhousecoopers have been counting on this. With the profit limits included in this proposal, 80% of the activities do not survive. Now I have not analysed this further, but to speculate I would say that this will affect independent preschools even more, because this is where the really small businesses are. They certainly do not have any operational capital at all. So they must not make any profit at all. They cannot cope with unforeseen expenses at all. I think this whole debate is absurd. You have to make money building preschools. You have to make money by delivering toys and other educational material to preschool. However, if you carry out a high-quality activity and, in addition, have a certain surplus, it is for some reason shameful. The question is where to draw the line. Food is also important in a preschool. Shouldn't you be allowed to make a profit selling food to preschool? Where does the government really want to draw the line?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1272	Madam President, I would like We want to ensure the quality of welfare by introducing a profit limit. That's what the government wants. Maria Stockhaus! I'd like to come back to your main speech, where you called us populist. It was about the issue of children's groups. I've read your motions. As you know, as it says in your exercise, you want to increase the number of hours spent in preschool. I think it's a little strange when you talk about populism. We are trying to work to increase quality, reduce children's groups, introduce benchmarks and invest money to invest in more preschool teachers and child care workers. In Stockholm, the Social Democrats make it possible for children to have more hours at preschool. Do you know what the Moderates in Stockholm do? Yeah, they're screaming straight out. Before you come and put populist movements in Parliament, perhaps you should talk to your comrades in Stockholm.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1274	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Roza Güclü Hedin for her speech. I have a need to tell you a little bit and possibly make some things right. As I experienced it, Roza suggested that the Alliance government had not invested in preschool. Then I want to tell you about the preschool lift, as the alliance government did for a number of years, and the preschool manager lift that was done to lift leadership. Various other bets were also made. I wanted to get it said. I have a few questions for Roza. She mentioned the outdoor environment and said she thought it had gotten much better. How big was the effort on the outdoor environment, and in what way has it affected children's learning? That's my first question. My second question is: does Roza Güclü Hedin believe in the independent preschools? In what way does she want to highlight their development and the quality work that many independent preschools do? At the turn of the line, it was about not making a profit with our common resources. There Maria Stockhaus pointed out that you can make a profit from teaching materials, food, outdoor equipment and so on. Where's the limit for what you can't make a profit on? The Member of Parliament from the Social Democrats also talked about securing quality and about unauthorized teachers in preschool. Then my question is: how does the government view the possibility of allowing Montessori teachers and Waldorf teachers to be counted as qualified preschool teachers?
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1280	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of questions. I'll try to answer. The outdoor environment was spent more than 500 million on, if I do not remember completely wrong. Ulrika Carlsson wonders how it can contribute to better learning. There is research on the design of outdoor environments. It's about how to ensure that children can discover their creativity and curiosity based on how the outdoor environment is designed. Whether it is large or small affects their psychosocial environment. It must not be too big, because it will be more difficult to see and respond to every child and so on. In this area, you can do a lot that is important in order to be able to teach well and give children the opportunity to discover different things. I don't think in any way it's wrong with free preschools. We have very many good examples in my municipality of residence. They conduct a very good business. My problem is that I don't think you should make a profit out of our common resources. The profit will be reinvested in order to provide better operations and improve quality. You mentioned the preschool lift, Ulrika Carlsson. There were absolutely parts of pre-school politics that were good even during the time of the alliance government. You are a very sympathetic center party in every way, but in your current budget there are a lot of cuts. You want to remove virtually every effort that could provide a preschool with better quality. For example, you do not want to spend 830 million on reduced groups of children, as we do. You're cutting back on the renovation of school premises, you don't want us to stimulate night ice and so on.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1284	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Roza for the opportunity to tell us a little more about the policy of the Center Party. If you read the whole Center Party budget movement, Roza, you will also see that there are other parts within, for example, Category 25 where we do not want all these targeted state subsidies, which the government is now implementing, but want to put them together. We believe that decisions are taken as closely as possible. It is our municipal politicians in different municipalities who know what efforts have already been made there. One may already have expanded the pre-school facilities and thus see no need for there to be such a government grant right now. Another municipality may have invested for several years in the size of children's groups. We think it is important that the municipalities themselves have the power over their own development work, not least because we believe that preschool is an important activity for children's development. I go back to the question of profit from our common resources. I know it's a question. At the same time, there are fantastic independent preschools that in different ways use buses where you go out and see a larger environment where the children are still in a safe environment. The pre-school managers and pre-school owners have nevertheless pointed out that with the profit limitation proposal put forward by the government, it will not be possible to continue the activities that are part of the educational development. I find it difficult to understand when we talk about our common resources that it is only about learning in preschool and not any of the other parts. That is the thing that concerns me very much. It is a question of stopping in educational development, not least in the case of our preschools. I would also like to hear something about the Montessori and Waldorf colleagues before the end of the line.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1289	Mr President, I would like to It is good that I hear a little bit about centre politics. What I'm reading is that you're going to cut 12 billion on the municipal side. This corresponds to the cost of approximately 25 000 preschool teachers. It would be an unfortunate direction if it were not for us to be able to afford and to invest more in preschool. Unfortunately, the debate has come to be too much about the profit investigation that exists and too little about how we want to work forward. It is very important that we tell the preschool teachers and child care workers who listen that we will continue to develop Swedish preschool. If we are given the opportunity, we will continue to reduce children's groups. We will continue to invest in qualitative efforts with the support of the Swedish Agency for Education in order to develop every preschool to be good and with a good quality. We will continue to develop our staff in preschool. We will ensure that they are given the tools needed to carry out their mission in the best possible way. We will strengthen the educational leadership in preschool by hopefully getting pre-school principals to become part of the coherent school system. We need to invest in preschool to get away from a feeling of concern that many staff members have. It's about getting away from the stress of conscience. We really need to work together. I hope that Ulrika Carlsson will help us in the future to discuss different professions and educational orientations within preschools as well. I think it can enrich in many ways. But the important thing is quality.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1294	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about preschool, as we have all understood now. It is that part of the education system that is aimed at the youngest children, those who have not yet started primary school. Today, preschools have their own national curricula and goals. The goal of preschool is to offer safe care and to stimulate children's development and their desire to learn. Preschool is the place of play pedagogy. Here the children get the opportunity to fantasize, pretend, practice empathy and get to know each other's experiences in the game. It is in the game that the child develops his social ability and prepares for what is to come. It all started in Germany with a man named Friedrich Fröbel. In 1837 he started a preschool, or a kindergarten. He said that the game is the heart of the coming life, for in the game is revealed man's deepest disposition, his innermost being. It's nice. In Sweden came the kindergarten in the late 1800s. Kindergarten became a children's house, which became a day care center. The 1968 children's study submitted its proposal, and preschool became the accepted concept for the operation. In connection with this, responsibility was also transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Education. It was a clear indication of what the business task was. In doing so, the educational content was given a much more prominent role and a curriculum of its own. In preschool there have also been development of activities with different educational strategies such as Reggio Emilia, Waldorf, Montessori and clocks and showers, which parents can be given the opportunity to choose where the activities are located. Preschool has a curriculum since 1998. It was revised in 2016. They'll stick to it. That's who's running the business. Preschool became its own school form in 2004. Based on the curriculum, principals and staff will form a well-functioning preschool for all children. The municipalities have supervision of the activities, but there are both municipal and private principals. For most children in our country, preschool is the start of their journey in lifelong learning. Preschools are of great importance for children's development and provide children with a level playing field for the start of school. We know that research shows that children who have attended preschool are more successful in school than those who have not. This applies in particular to children who have parents with a short education or children who, for various reasons, live in vulnerable situations. Preschool is an important start in the Swedish school system. We can see that children who have been admitted to preschool perform better even in grade 9. Therefore, it is important that preschool staff have good conditions for the educational work with the children. The government invests in smaller groups of children, and it is beginning to have an impact on the activities. This gives the educational staff better opportunities to meet each child. Play and the pleasurable learning are the hallmarks of children's development, and curiosity should be captured and reflected throughout the business. A high quality should characterize the entire preschool. The children should feel equally seen no matter who they are. It is important that staff have a good education in counteracting traditional gender patterns and roles and that each child has the opportunity to develop at its own pace and on the sides that for them fall naturally. Ensuring good and nutritious food for children also plays a crucial role in the well-being of children. It is about using food as an educational instrument for the knowledge of how we function as biological beings while highlighting the issue of how food is produced. Happily, 44 percent of the food served in preschool is organic. Meals are also occasions when children receive social training. Preschools are, of course, facing major challenges. We all know that. Equality and equality are two concepts that are incredibly important, not least when we talk about preschool. Making children an equal future citizen is an important task for the educators who work there. The Government is actively working with efforts to support positive development. One of these is that preschool is part of the initiative Collaboration for best school. It is an initiative aimed at pre-schools in socio-economically weak areas. The Government allocates SEK 100 million to preschools in these areas, among other things, to develop and invest in multilingualism. Mr President, I would like to The year in which the child turns six leaves preschool and moves into the preschool class. The transfer between preschool and preschool classes has been clarified in a revision of the curriculum, as well as the importance of accurate information about the content of the education and who is responsible for transmitting information. Another important step is taken in a young person's life. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-9scWAWSMzN74QUJo23F1qA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabet Knutsson, for the speech and the history lesson, if I may call it that, about Germany in the mid 1800s! I have a couple of questions I'd like to ask you. I would first like to ask the same question that I put to Mr Hedin of the Social Democrats. Does Elisabet Knutsson believe in the independent preschools? It is said that eight out of ten independent schools may have to be shut down because of the profit limitation proposal that is now in place. How does Elisabet Knutsson view the fear that exists? There are many independent preschools that are very important for the children who go there. This is really my first question. My second question relates to what Mrs Knutsson chose to address in the very last part of her speech. It's about the importance of a transition when you leave the preschool class. We have had a previous discussion, of which we are well aware, about a ten-year primary school. Now it will first be a handover. Then there'll be another one in a year. Does Elisabet Knutsson not see that it would be more positive for children's learning and development to have a more cohesive school than it is now with, as well as an intermediate year between preschool and primary school? Elisabet Knutsson also mentioned the importance of preschool before starting primary school.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1311	Mr President, I would like to We can start with the question of profits in welfare – again. I would like to respond to Ulrika Carlsson. The nurseries that are cooperative and those that are nonprofit-driven will not be affected by any changes. They do not have to worry – it is the small preschools that are co-operative parents or run by different organisations. Then there are concerns. Yeah, I've been thinking a lot about making money out of the collective. I myself am a born small business owner and grew up as a small business owner. I've been running a business my whole life, and I keep in mind that I've never been insured for any income. What I find interesting about the school business is that you both pick out a profit from our common and are guaranteed an income. Anyone who starts a school and has children enrolled there knows how much money they get. Then I think that many parents may have concerns about whether schools have to close down because they are not allowed to collect the profits from the collective money. But there are also other fears that parents may have that a school may suddenly decide to close down.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1314	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabet Knutsson, for the answers! They say you know how much money you get. It depends on how many students choose to start. You can listen to free schools or smaller schools at all. We know that the student money we have makes it very vulnerable in different ways. If, for some reason, you lose two students who move from school, it becomes extremely vulnerable to the remaining activities. Of course, money is not guaranteed in this way. You are for every student, but there is nothing to guarantee that you should have a certain number of students. I would like to ask Elisabet Knutsson about something precisely with regard to the independent schools and how to raise the issue of the number of unauthorised teachers and so on. Elisabet Knutsson himself chose to cite the Montessori schools and the Waldorf schools as examples. On their part, the possibility has been put forward that as a trained Montessori teacher is actually counted as a qualified teacher. How does Elisabet Knutsson view those parts that are important in different ways? Then I would like to add something – I will now come back to the small free schools. It is not only the large groups that are limited companies at all, but there are also quite a few small companies that conduct school activities and who really are passionate about the possibility of running a good preschool or a good primary school. It is also they who say that they see difficulties with this proposal and who feel that it will sometimes be almost impossible to remain. It is said that the proposal to ban profits is unserious. There are demands for a stable economy, but at the same time there are no opportunities to build a stable economy. How does Elisabet Knutsson view it? I would also like answers to the question of educated teachers in terms of alternative educational orientations.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1318	Mr President, I would like to What the proposal will eventually look like, neither Ulrika Carlsson nor I know. It is a proposal that is a basis for further development. As with all other investigations carried out in different areas, the investigation's proposals are not lifted right into the business and say: The investigation has said this – the end of the story. There is, of course, reason to look at both one and the other. But what is important to us is ultimately that the money that comes from the collective should go to the collective. They should not be lifted out as excess profits. A certain profit must be made, which one can put into the business. But it is the excess profits that we do not accept. Then there are Montessori teachers and Waldorf teachers. Well, it's also something you need to look at: how to give them some kind of ID. For my part, as an environmental party, I think it sounds sympathetic, but it is not something that the government has taken a position on.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1320	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to continue our work on improving procurement, as stated in the FIU34 report of the Committee on Finance. It is extremely important that we make the best use of tax money. The fact that they have been used for wage dumping, for poor food and for the deterioration of the environment and given rogue companies the opportunity to compete out serious companies is totally unacceptable. The procurement, if used correctly, can have several positive effects on society. It can provide increased growth, employment, order and management of the labour market, gender equality, technological progress and increased innovation. The procurement can simply live up to the Swedish model if we use it correctly. The procurement can also contribute to the national environmental objectives and the implementation of Agenda 2030. The new legislation, which we got through with great effort last year, and the Swedish Procurement Authority's work on, among other things, the national procurement strategy has provided better conditions for authorities and contracting entities to procure more strategically. The contracting authority also provides support, information and guidance on innovation procurement, environmental and social requirements. We also know that work is under way at EU level on developing a public procurement strategy that sets clear priorities, improves procurement practices and promotes investment within the EU. It is already possible with the legislation that we adopted last year, for example, to take social considerations into account. It is also possible to make requirements in transport. So we got that through last year. However, I can see that knowledge varies across the country and that there are still municipalities that absolutely do not want to impose labour law requirements. For example, in my own municipality, Skövde, M, SD, C, L and KD joined forces on Monday and voted down our Social Democratic motion on fair terms when purchasing transport. But there are other examples, such as Region Skåne, which yesterday adopted a procurement policy. There is a code of conduct that requires goods and services to be produced under conditions that are compatible with, among other things, the ILO's eight core conventions. It shall contain the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and shall apply the legislation on health and safety at work and environmental legislation in force in the manufacturing countries. According to the policy, the region will also seek to exploit the idea-based sector when it is appropriate to impose social requirements, contractual conditions and, for example, take into account disability policy and employ people who are far from the labour market. So far Region Skåne. In Skåne, SD was involved in voting in favour of this procurement policy. I can thus note that in Skövde SD and the other bourgeois parties are against labour law requirements, but in Skåne SD is for such demands. What do we learn from it? 1. More enlightenment and knowledge are needed. 2. We can never ever trust SD in any context. Mr President, I would like to The contracting authority is working to strengthen the competence of contracting authorities, entities and suppliers, both within the framework of the national procurement strategy and through the mandate given to it in the area of food. One example I can mention is that the procurement authority has been commissioned by the government to develop a package of requirements that will help municipalities in their procurement of environmental and health hazardous subjects in preschool. It is because we Social Democrats have pushed the issue of non-toxic preschools. The requirements package includes the product areas toys, hobby materials, kitchen and serving equipment, furniture and textiles. That, Mr President, is simply a very good example of how to work with procurement in the future. Finally, something about the work that is being done to facilitate tenders for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is, of course, a great focus, both at national and European level, on facilitating precisely for SMEs. It is therefore remarkable that M, SD, C, L and KD write that this particular work needs to be done. Maybe it's a little populism and breaking open doors or – I don't know – pure ignorance maybe. In any case, this work is already under way. Therefore, we do not think it needs to be written about it again. Otherwise, we think the report is a step in the right direction. We move forward the positions and continue the strategic work of ensuring that procurement is done as well as possible, so that we do not drop wages or use them to knock out serious companies, but ensure that we get the labour market in order on procurement issues.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1331	Mr President, I would like to According to the report Statistics on public procurement, presented last autumn by the Swedish Procurement Authority and the Swedish Competition Authority, the value of the procurement obligations in Sweden corresponds to approximately SEK 642 billion. These are enormous sums, equivalent to more than a sixth of Sweden's gross domestic product, which affects a large part of Swedish business, regardless of the size of the companies. Public procurement is therefore of strategic importance for jobs and growth. The aim of public procurement is basically good. Contracting authorities shall make the best use of public funds by taking advantage of competition on the market while competing on equal terms. In the words of the Procurement Authority, an efficient purchasing process provides a basis for creating good business. We all benefit from that. However, one might ask whether the good purpose is achieved. In more than half of the tenders, between zero and three tenders are received. It is a real problem, and it should be analysed in greater depth why, and if so, there is something we legislators can do to change it. Sweden needs to be a country where all companies – big and small, with or without collective agreements, who can and want – have the opportunity to participate in public procurements to sell good quality goods and services both within the country and on export. Through effective competition, quality can increase while keeping prices down. This is urgent, not least for welfare services. Quality combined with economy and our common resources should be one of the top priorities of the public sector. As a small, trade-dependent country, new export opportunities mean increased tax revenues as well as more companies and jobs. In order for this to become a reality, we need to create good conditions for our Swedish companies so that they become able to bid and also win them internationally. In this way, Swedish companies can reach more and wider markets in Europe. Such a strategy takes its start in Sweden. Today, however, many companies show that it is difficult to participate in procurement. The procurement documentation is often impenetrable and must be processed and answered with short response times. For example, by requiring experience of having delivered a number of similar deals or being able to deliver large deals, the possibility is limited for many or when the public imposes unreasonable demands, which drive up the price and can also collide with each other. As an example of the latter can be mentioned Fruit Delivery Sweden, which supplies fruit baskets for subscription to private companies and public customers. They have several public customers who require class 1 labeling of fruit, which no single company does. Class 1 is about the most expensive fruit, but it does not have freshness or taste to do without appearance. The fruit must not be oblique or differ in any millimetre in size. We can politically push the issue of reducing food waste. But the public sector sometimes goes in the opposite direction, knowingly or unconsciously, and I do not know which is the worst. At worst, the public sector contributes to a deterioration of competition in the market, resulting in oligopoly or monopolistic situations. It risks making processes, services and products more expensive for citizens. We also miss knowledge in innovative companies with new business ideas. There are several good examples of how innovation procurement succeeds in other countries, for example in Norway. By cooperating with and taking advantage of knowledge and expertise in the business community, the chance to find new, good and creative solutions for different societal problems increases. This is an important development, not least in terms of welfare, where we face major challenges in terms of population development. In June 2016, the Government put a bill on Parliament's table on a new regulatory framework for public sector procurement based on three EU directives on public procurement from 2014. Parliament rejected parts of the bill, because it went beyond what was required by the introduction of the EU directives. The Swedish Parliament called on the government to come back with a new proposal, so that the necessary EU directives could be implemented in Sweden. This proposal came last spring and is better, but far from good. The proposal that was adopted goes beyond what the European directives require and, in our view, means difficult to interpret and unclear legislation. Our concerns were and are that there is a great risk that small businesses will be disadvantaged. Many smaller companies feel that it is too complicated to tender for public contracts. They're participating anyway. In 2016, more than three quarters of the bidders were micro or small enterprises, but they accounted for only half of the contracts signed. It is important that the requirements of procurement law and in practice exclude smaller companies. The requirements shall be permeated by clear, reasonable and equivalent conditions. Our most central criticism concerns when specific labour law conditions are to be imposed. Our second objection concerns the cases in which a main contractor should impose requirements also on subcontractors throughout the supply chain. The latter poses a risk of complications for small businesses, even though the new rules only apply above the threshold. The consequences for small companies acting as subcontractors can be unreasonable. We Moderates want to safeguard the purpose of public procurement. We want the public sector to spend tax money on the right things, to keep costs down and to reduce waste. In this way, we safeguard the legitimacy of our tax system and thus the basic prerequisite for financing what the public sector delivers, regardless of whether it is the state, county councils or municipalities that procure. There is a risk when making additional demands – whether collective agreements, enhanced animal welfare, environmental requirements or requirements on the appearance of fruit – and trying to solve social problems other than those that public procurement is the tool to solve. On the other hand, the public sector should make greater use of the opportunities offered by functional and innovation procurement. These can help solve our social problems in ways we may not know about. The government has noted the lack of statistics in the procurement field, and the issue is being addressed. It is important that we have a good basis for assessing how this strategic area works so that we see where we, as legislators, may have to screw the conditions. I support the committee's proposal under paragraph 2 and reservation 8.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1341	Mr President, I would like to I'll say a few things about motion 2017/ 18:2381 and the alliance joint motion 2017/ 18:3412. I'll start with the first exercise. It is a motion that the Swedish Democrats have raised in previous years, but since the committee has rejected the motion, I am making a new attempt in the hope that previous positions have been re-evaluated and actually take those animal welfare issues seriously. Many Swedes today eat meat from animals that have been ruthlessly slaughtered without respect for the dignity of the animal, and the meat is often eaten completely without knowing it. The animals are killed and bled without stunning, which means a prolonged death course with unnecessary suffering, pain and anxiety. The ritual slaughter method I'm talking about is what's called halal or koscher slaughter. Undeaf animals — sheep, lamb, and cows — are trapped in a position that can be described as a tumble drier, turned upside down in an unnatural and painful way to finally have their throats cut off. Nerves, arteries, food and trachea are cut off with the knife, but it does not go deep enough, which means that the blood continues to pump up to the brain. After this, the animal can live up to eleven minutes before it finally meets its fate and dies of blood loss. A veterinarian describes the procedure in the following way: It is a huge operation without anaesthetic. In all other circumstances, as a veterinarian, I would immediately be deprived of my identification if I did something similar. In Sweden, slaughter without stunning is still prohibited, but according to the former CEO of the Meat and Chark companies, it is common for many Swedes without knowing if it gets slippery slaughtered meat or kosher meat on their dinner table. Slaughterhouses in other countries over-produce ritually slaughtered meat in order not to lack it, and are then exported and sold as normal meat in other countries. In a 2011 report, the French Ministry of Agriculture estimated that 40 to 60% of the animals were slaughtered without stunning, despite the fact that the demand for halal and kosher meat accounted for only about 10% of the slaughter. According to a study by Svenska Dagbladet, none of the country's largest charkgrossists could account for either control paper or contract texts that guarantee that meat from animals that have been tormented to death does not reach the Swedish consumers. As there is a market for these products, and therefore also financial incentives, more and more meat producers are moving towards those slaughter methods. A report from the European Commission shows that up to 75% of cattle in some EU countries are slaughtered without stunning. In some other producer countries all sheep and lamb meat is slaughtered in this way. It is difficult to say exactly how best to tackle this growing problem, but the Swedish Democrats believe that the problem needs to be tackled from several angles, which the motion also addresses. On the one hand, Sweden must take a strong stance towards the EU in favour of general bans on this brutal form of slaughter throughout the Union, and, on the other hand, Sweden must actively seek derogations in the EU so that we can ban imports of meat slaughtered using methods that deviate from the intentions of Swedish animal welfare legislation. Meat from animals slaughtered and bled without stunning must also be labelled with a clear warning to enable consumers to opt out of these products before Sweden has developed an import ban. What is relevant to the Finance Committee is the request to require that all food procured in public procurement is guaranteed to be from animals slaughtered in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules. Sweden may have the most ambitious animal welfare in the world, Mr President, and that is something that we Swedish democrats are proud of and want to protect. We believe that a compromise with Swedish legislation and, above all, ethical standards should never be accepted. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 6. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Alliance-wide motion 2017/ 18:3412, which the SD supports in this report. The exercise addresses an important aspect of public procurement given the complex regulatory framework that companies face in the procurement process. For small businesses that lack the time and resources needed to understand in detail the procurement requirements, there will of course be a high threshold to cross. This represents a loss both for entrepreneurship and for taxpayers. It is therefore urgent that we should now be able to address an announcement to the government on this issue. SD will always be on the side of small businesses. We saw this not least last year when the procurement bill was being dealt with, which had excluded a majority of Swedish companies from public procurement if it had been passed. The main reason why we stopped the original proposal was that the proposal would distort competition between posted workers on the one hand and Swedish workers on the other. Contractors who imposed conditions that went beyond the so-called hard core would only apply to Swedish companies while foreign companies were excluded from the rules, which would lead to a competitive advantage for companies with posted workers. Of course, we could never accept this, and that is why we pressured the government to revise the proposal so that there would be a level playing field and fair competition in the Swedish labour market. The new revised proposal was subsequently voted through with our support.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1353	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's most corrupt country in Scandinavia! This brascending headline we could read on SVT News and in many other media last week. What happened? We are now debating the report by the Committee on Finance Public Procurement, which may not be the world's kiosk roller, but the link between public procurement and corruption is stronger than many think. We want to see Sweden as a corruption-free society, and therefore it hurts to see a headline that reads: It is Transparency International that makes the assessment, but for the sake of justice we should also point out that Sweden is in the sixth place together with Singapore out of a total of 180 countries studied. What is worrying is that Sweden is losing investments and, above all, why Sweden is losing investments. Transparency International states that it is largely government scandals, often linked to procurements, that cause Sweden to get a worse judgment. It lists the following events during the years 2016 and 2017: Macchiarini scandal at Karolinskaska, Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, who warned his friend, a national accountant who promised off services that were not announced to acquaintances, corruption havoc at the Swedish National Property Board, the mutt scandal at Trafikverket, irregularities in the procurement of passports by the police and the accident at the Swedish Transport Agency, which is still under investigation. To this will be added a number of municipal corruption scandals in connection with procurement, where Gothenburg seems to be particularly affected. Corruption is a cancerous thing, and if corruption is established in a society, a society can quickly collapse. Therefore, corruption must be combated at all levels. Mr President, I would like to The LOU, the Public Procurement Act, contains fundamental principles of equal treatment, transparency and non-discrimination that protect the supplier, and it also allows authorities to benefit from competition in the market and ensure that citizens' paid taxes are as beneficial as possible. Most seem to agree that public procurement rules can and should be simplified. Many suppliers experience procurement as bureaucratic processes, and a large majority therefore choose not to tender. I myself am an entrepreneur and know how time-consuming it is to count on detailed tenders for volumes that are not known to be met. It is therefore gratifying that the committee has supported the alliance motion, which says that public procurement requirements should be permeated by simple, clear and equal conditions regardless of the size and form of the company. Making it easier for small businesses to participate in procurements means that small family farms without collective agreements can participate in the municipal procurement of food. Then the children of my municipality of Mora may receive locally produced food on their plates from the Morell family's farm. Mr President, I would like to On 30 November 2016, the Riksdag voted through large parts of the Government's proposal for a new regulatory framework for procurement. When the Public Procurement Act was introduced in 1994, the Law Council, which reviews all legislation, said that the law was too comprehensive and detailed. The Law then contained 132 paragraphs. The current Procurement Act contains about 1,000 paragraphs. The council's criticism this time needed 418 pages to fit in. The criticism was, to put it very mildly, brutal. Among other things, the Swedish Law Council said that the law has acquired a level of scope and detail that is generally not desirable and that may be considered contrary to the normally applied legislative technique in Sweden. During the period from 18 April 2016, when the EU directives were supposed to have been implemented in Swedish legislation, until 1 January 2017, when the new procurement laws came into force, there was considerable uncertainty among both suppliers and contracting authorities as to what rules were actually in force. I'm sure you remember that, all of you who were there at the time. For example, the Procurement Authority said that LOU and LUF, which are both procurement laws, would be used but interpreted on the basis of EU directives. Therefore, the Center Party has urged the government to evaluate the impact of the new procurement legislation and evaluate the impact on public procurement that began between 18 April 2016 and 1 January 2017, when we had a very unclear legal position. Unfortunately, the Committee on Finance proposes that this very reasonable request be rejected by Parliament. Of course, I am in favour of reservation 1 in the report, which deals with this very subject. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to draw attention to two motions written by my centre party colleagues Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson, Eskil Erlandsson and Rickard Nordin. They point to the absurdity of the fact that we here in Parliament are making demands on Swedish food production and on Swedish farmers, but that these requirements when the public then procures food are not included in the procurement documentation. What is the effect of this? Yes, we place high demands on Swedish farmers who increase their costs, but in the procurement the Swedish farmer loses because the demands we have made on him have reduced his competitiveness. In the end it may be that we do not have any Swedish farmers left because of the Swedish special requirements. I say as farmer Martin Moraeus in Orsa: What is allowed to eat in Sweden should also be allowed to produce in Sweden.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1366	Mr President, I would like to The law on public procurement could well be said to be knasterdry prose, but it is very important and crucial for how, for what purposes and under what conditions tax money is used. That is what this debate is all about, isn't it? How we use between SEK 600 and 700 billion per year is obviously of great importance for how society develops and how creativity can be supported, maintained and developed. It obviously has consequences if you have competition on equal terms and how you view workers' rights in these contracts. Therefore, it is obviously important what is stated in the Public Procurement Act. The Left Party believes that we should have fair competition based on decent working conditions and skills. We believe that employees' rights are worth standing up for and defending. In fact, today the EU is more progressive in its view of workers' rights than the citizens and the Swedish Democrats are. One might wonder what is so controversial about not accepting social dumping, i.e. competition through lower wages or working conditions. I thought we had gone further than that in Sweden today. That is the motion that has been heard in the Committee on Finance. I would like to quote what the citizens and the Swedish Democrats have written in the report. 中 Small companies lack collective agreements to a greater extent than larger companies, which means that the requirement for collective agreements can make it difficult for small companies to participate in public procurement. ..................................................... It is therefore collective agreements that are the major problem, according to the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats. That says quite a lot, I think. But one more thought comes to mind, at least with me: the legislation we have today does not require collective agreements – unfortunately. That is what you voted down. Let's look back at what it actually was like. There was a proposal that suggested that demands could be made on pay, holidays, insurance, pensions and working hours. That proposal was rejected. In time, a new proposal came because the Christian Democrats felt that some kind of employee perspective should be in the legislation. There were demands for holidays, wages and working hours. The collective agreements that would be covered and how this would be built would be drawn up by the social partners and the Procurement Authority, and this would only apply to contracts above the thresholds. That is the legislation we have today, so what this motion and the position in the Committee on Civil Liberties and the Swedish Democrats is really about is to claim that, today, collective agreements can be imposed under the Public Procurement Act. I'm sorry, but you can't. I wish that was the case. So you've been exercising about something you don't know anything about. In addition, you seem to support an opinion that I thought belonged to the beginning of the 20th century. Defending workers' rights is about the work and conditions of hundreds of thousands of people. Do you think it is reasonable for us in Sweden today to have underbudgetary competition in the labour market? What do you say we take out some good companies? I don't think so, so I'm pretty sad. Now the Christian Democrats are not here. I was glad that at least they wanted to reach out and try to find a solution. Most of all, of course, I would have liked the first proposal to go through. But now the Christian Democrats are suddenly behind the initiative in committee and point out the small part of the workers' rights that remains. The fact that small companies do not participate in procurements in the same way as large companies does, of course, provide a number of explanations. It is complicated, as has been said here. The EU has complicated directives. That's actually what it looks like. Only the luntane of directives– I wonder how many in this House have read all these pages. And when you have read all these pages, if you have, you understand that many of them are very complicated to understand even if you are used to reading European directives. Unfortunately, procurements are often also very large. Work has started in many regions and municipalities trying to break them down. Borlänge is a good example. At my home there are also such good examples. Efforts are being made to break down procurement to smaller volumes so that smaller companies can participate in the procurement process in a completely different way. If you look at the evidence, you can also see that of the total number of bids contracted, 72 per cent goes to small and large electricity companies. It's still 72%. Sure, I'm sure there'll be more. But the new law on public procurement is much better than the old law on small and medium-sized enterprises. Now we've had it for a few months. You already want to overturn it. You do this only by pointing out the problems of workers' salaries, holidays and working hours, but at other times you say that you are the Swedish model. I question it strongly. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-1024368cfae3c7fa-1382	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the FiU34 report by the Committee on Finance, which deals with some forty motions from the general period of exercise relating to public procurement. The public sector in Sweden, through, for example, government agencies in the state, municipalities and county councils, as well as municipal and state-owned companies, deals each year for more than SEK 600 billion. This is mainly regulated by procurement legislation, which aims to maintain competition in the market and to use tax resources in a cost-effective manner. The selection of suppliers shall always take place on a commercial basis and shall be based on the quality of the goods or services in question and the conditions under which they can be delivered. In order to ensure a cost-effective service of as high quality as possible, it is therefore important that we affirm innovation and that we acknowledge that more actors and suppliers want to participate in public procurement. In its budget proposal, the government states that the lack of competition in public procurement can be very damaging to society and citizens and lead to lower quality citizens and taxpayers and less innovation at a high price. I agree. However, one of the many challenges we face is that SMEs today feel that it is complicated – iblan d too complicated – to participate in public procurement at all and therefore choose to abstain. Studies show that only 27% of SMEs participate in public procurement. It is therefore positive that the committee has supported the alliance exercise 3412 on public procurement requirements. The claim and the statement there is that public procurement should be permeated by simple, clear and equal conditions regardless of the size and form of the company. Mr President, I would like to I would then like to dwell on two of the Liberals' proposals in the report. In order to develop and encourage more SMEs to participate in procurement, the new Procurement Authority or the Competition Authority should be given the task of setting up a government platform for public procurement. Inspiration is available from many other EU countries, for example from the Danish State Portal udbud.dk. A government platform would allow many more smaller-sized suppliers to actively participate in procurement procedures, thereby strengthening competition and improving quality overall. In addition, transparency would increase for citizens as they get a better overall picture of public sector purchases – what is actually bought, by whom it is purchased and at what cost. Mr President, I would like to Citizens want to be able to choose from a variety of practitioners, whether they are home care, childcare, health care or care for the elderly. You simply want to be able to choose. Competition and diversity also promote innovation and dynamism. It is therefore important for laws and regulations to benefit and not hinder all kinds of serious companies in the welfare sector. A neglected category is the non-profit or idea-based enterprises, which are founded and run by social entrepreneurs. The share of idea-based companies is currently 3%, and the figure has been static over the last ten years. At the same time, the development of us differs from our neighbours Denmark and Norway, with similar welfare systems, with a share of 14% and 7% respectively. The Liberals, in their second reservation, have tried to make this visible and want to see opportunities to acknowledge the opportunities offered by ideas to companies to participate in public procurement. We have two reservations on this matter, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 2.
