i-3d1041913d2b49fc-3	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister of Finance whether she intends to take measures to increase the financial incentives for new arrivals to move from grants to jobs and, if so, which ones. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Since the government took office, some 300 000 more people are in work. Two thirds of the employment growth has occurred among foreign born children. It has taken up to ten years in the past before half of the new arrivals have established themselves on the labour market. New figures from Statistics Sweden are now showing an improvement and almost half of those received in 2011 had jobs after five years. If progress continues in the same positive way, the time from reception to work should be allowed to continue. However, major challenges remain, not least with regard to the entry of newly arrived women into the labour market. There should be clear driving forces for work for new arrivals as well as for everyone else. Everyone who can work. We also have strong economic drivers for work in Sweden today – this has been demonstrated by SNS, for example. They have found that the economic drivers are stronger than ever in Sweden today. It pays to work. Despite this, the Expert Group on Public Economy Studies, ESO, points out in a report in some areas where changes may need to be made in order to increase the financial incentives for certain groups to work. The Government already stated in the 2018 budget proposal that it should be reviewed how the provisions of the study support system and other compensation systems interact and affect the financial conditions of foreign born women to study and work. The ESO report shows some areas that are part of our review and where further changes may need to be made. The Government has high ambitions for gender equality, which requires women to come to work and receive their own livelihood and the independence that comes with it. In order for the economic drivers to become even stronger, the government has abolished the custody allowance and imposed restrictions on parental benefit. We have also carried out a clarification in the Social Services Act that municipalities should impose requirements on those who can work to be active in their job seeker in order for the person to have the right to subsistence support. The Government has also taken a number of initiatives for a more coherent and systematic approach with reception and establishment. We have changed the regulations for the start-up assignment so that the same requirements are placed on new arrivals as on other jobseekers. The Swedish model is based on the fact that rights and obligations are in balance. The government has greatly strengthened access to education. An education obligation for new arrivals has been introduced. The Government, LO, the Union and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise agree that so-called establishment jobs should be introduced. The aim is for more people to enter the labour market and to facilitate employers' future skills provision.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-11	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for a good answer. I think it is humble and shows how complex this issue is. There are some parts of the answer that I very much agree with. The important thing is that we think that everyone should work. It is not just a question of new arrivals, as the Minister's reply makes very clear. Anyone who can work to contribute to our common well-being. The reason I wrote this interpellation was that ESO, the Expert Group for Studies in Public Economy, has produced a report called Paying Work 2.0? It makes one unsearchable to think of Pomperipossa in Monismania, a fairy tale that Astrid Lindgren wrote and was published in Expressen in 1976 when she discovered that she paid 102 percent in marginal tax. The story led to a big after-debate, where Astrid Lindgren lectured Minister of Finance Sträng with the small classic words.Stäng can tell fairy tales, but apparently he can't count. We should probably change jobs, him and me. ..................................................... Pomperipossa tax is something that has returned from time to time in various debates and in different thoughts about where the level of tax should be in order for it to pay off from subsidies to work. The conclusion reached by ESO was that in some cases the marginal impact can be 100% for those who move from subsistence support or start-up compensation to a job or a start-up job. ESO has noted that women are among the worst of these, especially women who live in a relationship and have children. These women's families will have a negative outcome if they start working. That is why ESO has a proposal, on which I do not take a position at all, that the establishment allowance should be shared between the parents in order to reduce the problems with the women's trap. The fact that newly arrived immigrants do not end up in long-term dependency on benefits is a matter of destiny for Sweden. I read somewhere that it can even be said that there is a chronic exclusion in going on subsistence support for many years. Finally, the threshold is so high that it is a major step to enter the labour market at all. Moreover, it is much more difficult for an employer to hire someone who has been out of work for a long time. The Minister can do all this very well, and I shall no longer dwell on it. It's got to pay off to work. There's a deal. I think that almost all parties believe that there must be a difference between going to work and making a living through support for their livelihoods. We have a proposal for a premium ceiling. Today you can stack compensations on each other; I think it is possible for a normal family to get about $25,000 a month. If you have your livelihoods secured in this way, the step towards entering the labour market will be much longer. There'll be some money in your wallet, but you still pull it around. In the end, it becomes a habit to turn the money around that way. You also get comfortable going on support if you have the support because you don't have a job. After all, there are various reasons why people have support for their livelihoods. It is important to keep to the fact that this is a labour market measure rather than a labour market measure because you have a disease or a low sickness benefit. I would like us to dwell a little on our proposal on the ceiling and would like to hear a comment from the Minister.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-22	Mr President, I would like to ESO's report is interesting to read. This is the first time that these incentives have been reviewed more widely. The report notes that the economic drivers have been strengthened in recent years. The reforms made have strengthened the drivers, both in general and for those with low incomes. The SNS Economic Council carried out a similar survey on the whole labour market and noted that the economic drivers for work have been strengthened and that this is not a problem in Sweden today. Nevertheless, the ESO report points to a number of areas, which is why I think it is interesting. The report also says that there is no real answer to how this is to be resolved. That's why we've started a major analysis work within the department looking at this. It may not always appear in the debate, but it deserves to be said that the economic drivers are very strong for those who have few or no children. The complexity arises when it comes to families that have many children, which is not so common. It is the same effect that exists in relation to the supply aid. While it is about the driving forces of work, it is also a balance that includes the security and standard of living of children. Of course, it is also affected by the level of wages in the work that is otherwise done. This is complex, and there is probably no easy solution, as the ESO report shows. But I think we should look at this anyway, because I am not ruling out the possibility of making changes that can create even better incentives. Particularly interesting, I think the incentive is for those who go out as number two in a family with two providers, because it is usually the woman. It is common for the husband to get a job before the woman gets it. We clearly see that the employment rate is increasing and is high after a number of years among women born abroad who have come to Sweden. But it takes women much longer to enter the labour market than men. If we live together then, we cannot rule out the existence of financial incentives that contribute to this. This report points to the individualisation of the establishment supplement. The establishment allowance, which the adult individual receives, provides a clear and strong incentive to work. We have also tightened the requirements so that you have to take assigned work, otherwise you lose your remuneration. That's what's going on now. It was introduced on 1 January by this government. But in families with many children, I think we should look at whether it is possible to increase incentives without affecting the children's level of life.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good dialogue on these very difficult and complex issues! It is indeed a matter of destiny for Sweden to get more people to work. It is a question of policy being interlinked, of the existence of a market that makes you dare to hire, but also of the individual taking the step from contribution to salary. Then the incentive must be to keep more money in your wallet. It's purely human. There are many dimensions to having a job, such as the social dimension of having co-workers and feeling needed and that the children, who hopefully have two parents, see that the parents go to work every day when they go to school. But it's also about getting money left in your wallet. This, with the employment rate of women born abroad, may be called a challenge, but I would say that it is rather a problem. The ESO report shows, and as the Minister also says, that those who enter the labour market as number two are often women, and the incentives are not as strong as for those who go out as number one. I would like to return to the issue of the premium ceiling. We want there to be a premium ceiling in the supply aid and the start-up compensation for those who have supply support for labour market reasons. The exact design needs to be investigated. However, the starting point should be that a household should be able to maintain a maximum of 75 per cent of the minimum wage and total allowance, excluding child benefit and maintenance allowance. I wonder how it is possible to avoid this 100% marginal effect, which affects some people who go to work. Does it not have to be a premium ceiling, or can it be solved in other ways? I was at the council meeting at Flen's house last night and got a statement in the annual report of what it looks like there. We have received a lot of refugees and have a proud tradition of a well-functioning refugee reception. In Flen, it takes nine to eleven years for women to enter working life. So it depends on where you deeped the hatchet in Sweden. But with us, 57 minutes from Stockholm, it takes nine to eleven years. I have no solution, but grant ceilings could be a solution to the incentive to get out. But then there are many parts to this. The language requirement, which the government recently came up with, is something that we have championed before – very good. I believe that demands must be made of concern for the citizens. The report shows, as I said, that it is very unequal in terms of the marginal effect on those who go out and work from living on supply support. I agree with much of what the Minister says. There must be clear driving forces for work, one of which is that you get more money left in your wallet and not just the social dimensions and belongings of a team, for example. How, then, are people to get more money left in their wallet if they move from support to work? I can see nothing but that the premium ceiling must be one of the most important factors. Then it is possible to screw this up, and the government has done a lot. But I think the last part must be to have a ceiling, so that you can't stack contributions on subsidies. I read somewhere that a family with a certain number of children can receive $25,000.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-37	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we are in a good mood and are trying to solve these problems, and I believe that there is a common interest in doing so. Let me still problematise the issue a little bit further. Under the old government we had a system where the entire establishment allowance was retained when they started working. You could thus have both salary and full start-up compensation without offsetting. In this way we have financial incentives to work, I can see. But I find it offensive that new arrivals should be able to have both salary and compensation while all the other unemployed are getting the crown for the crown from their support, for example unemployment benefit or activity support, when they go to work. That is why we have changed this, and I intend to stand by that change. I think we should have as much equal treatment as possible for new arrivals and other unemployed people. That is why we have changed the establishment system so that today it is a programme. That is why we are demanding that you take part in activities, otherwise you can get rid of your compensation exactly the same as for all the other unemployed. There was much that was good in what the previous government did with the establishment reform. It was right to give the individual rights, and it was good to have an individual establishment allowance. But I think it was bad that it was not supplemented by demands on the individual – now we have changed that. And I think it was bad that, unlike all the other unemployed, they could have both wages and benefits without offsetting. We have also changed this. If I am to stand by the position that I think is important, that we treat equally and that you cannot have both salary and full remuneration, the incentives will be a little more difficult, I will admit. But I'm not prepared to go the way of getting both. We'll have to look at this a little extra. The Moderates put forward the idea of a premium ceiling. As Lotta Finstorp herself says, it is a bit unclear exactly how this should be designed. Nevertheless, let me raise the finger of warning that those for whom the problem arises – that it does not pay enough to go to work – are families and perhaps, above all, single people with very many children. Families with many children are rare, but that is where the problem of financial incentives arises. The risk with the premium ceiling that the Moderates advocate is that families with many children would not have the same entitlement to support as families with fewer children, and then it is the children who are affected. I think you should think this through carefully and look at where the incentives really need to be strengthened. At the same time, we are aware, and as Lotta Finstorp well describes, of the importance of children growing up in good conditions and seeing their parents go to work but also avoid growing up in poverty with all the consequences that it has.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-44	Mr President, I would like to I just want to say that in the model that we worked out, child support and child support were excluded. The lock-in that a dependency on benefits can lead to has so many negative effects, including social ones. There are areas of exclusion where people have not come to work. I think it is good that the Minister says that we must talk about everyone in Sweden. It will be easy for us to focus solely on those who have come as new to Sweden. I would like to take a few examples from my com munication Flen, where there is 14.4% unemployment today, and that is a growing group of long-term unemployed. It is therefore not people who have gone from establishment and into job seekers at Arbetsförmedlingen who are the worrying group. We really need to look at this, because when long-term unemployment persists, it will also be more difficult for the individual to take the step of being energetic, seeking many jobs and being on his toes. We live close to a labour market, Södertälje and Stockholm, which screams for labor, so the match is a big problem. Everyone who can work must work. We need to get revenue through taxes so that we can manage well-being. It is not about raising taxes but about more paying taxes. This is a matter of fate for Sweden. We have a lot of common ground and we see the problem, but we have some different solutions.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-52	Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with a few positive words. We should in no way underestimate the need to look at these issues, and such a review is taking place in my department. However, today we do have record numbers of people working and paying taxes, and we have record few people living on any kind of compensation or subsidy. So we have very strong developments in the labour market. For every year that I have been responsible, the proportion of new arrivals going to work after the two-year establishment programme has increased steadily, and we continue to have a very positive development here. It is particularly gratifying that we are seeing an increase in the number of short-skilled women, and it is likely that this is due precisely to the government's reforms for additional welfare services. The development is therefore moving in the right direction, which is very pleasing, but more needs to be done. Let me also say that if we are to ensure financial incentives for everyone to go to work, it is important to say no to lower wages.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-56	Mr President, I would like to Adam Marttinen has asked me what conclusions I draw from the government's efforts to date regarding vulnerable EU citizens who are staying in Sweden to beg. He has also asked me if I can imagine a settlement for a national begging ban across the block borders between SD, M and S and, if not, what other measures the government intends to take to ensure that vulnerable EU citizens in Sweden return to their home countries as soon as possible for integration. The legal framework on the free movement of persons provides far-reaching rights for all EU citizens to enter and reside in other EU Member States. The Political Authority's situation picture of crime linked to vulnerable EU citizens assessed that most of the vulnerable EU citizens who are begging do so without this being linked to organised crime. There are, however, cases where some who beg are controlled by criminal actors and are victims of crime. It is totally unacceptable that people who are vulnerable due to poverty and discrimination should be exploited or subjected to crime when trying to acquire a livelihood. The government is concerned that people staying temporarily in Sweden will have to beg for their livelihood and that this group lives in unworthy conditions. Unauthorised settlements can also result in extensive litter and affect, among other things, landowners who are allowed to see their land taken up illegally. In the summer of 2015, the government presented a package of measures to combat vulnerability and begging. The measures presented included clearer rules in Sweden, international cooperation and close cooperation with civil society. In 2015, the Government appointed a national coordinator on issues related to vulnerable EU citizens. The county administration in Stockholm County was commissioned the following year to continue to develop cooperation and coordinate the work carried out in relation to the target group. The assignment has now been extended until 2019. Last year, the Government submitted to the Riksdag a bill proposing a new form of special handshake. The new rules on removal, which entered into force on 1 July 2017, make it easier for landowners to regain the possession of land where people reside without authorisation. The government will follow up the authorities' handling of illegal settlements, but there are already indications that the reform has had the intended effect. On 6 March 2018, the Government submitted a bill to the Riksdag on criminal law protection against human trafficking and human exploitation. Among other things, the proposals provide for a clearer description of the criminal penalty for trafficking in human beings, for an even stronger protection of children, and for the minimum penalty for trafficking in human beings, less serious crimes, to be reduced to prison for six months. In addition, it proposes a completely new crime, human exploitation, which explicitly penalises the exploitation of persons in begging. The proposal provides for greater protection in criminal matters, for example, in cases where people living in economically difficult conditions are unduly able to give up what they have been begging for or paying for something that is actually free, such as a place to beg in the public sphere. The proposals are intended to enter into force on 1 July 2018. On 8 February, the Government decided on an action plan against prostitution and human trafficking that also includes people exposed to human trafficking in the form of begging. The purpose of the action plan is to prevent and combat prostitution and human trafficking for all purposes and to contribute to better protection and support for people who are victims of human trafficking. As of 1 January 2018, the national commission on prostitution and human trafficking for sexual and other purposes that the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has previously had was made permanent by the assignment being transferred to the Swedish Agency for Gender Equality. It is a police task to maintain public order and to intervene when, for example, people appear disorderly, litter or commit crimes. The government is actively working to influence living conditions in the home countries to achieve long-term difference and sustainability and has signed memoranda of understanding with both Romania and Bulgaria. Cooperation has resulted in a very good climate for dialogue and strengthened bilateral relations. Overall, the government has taken a series of measures to combat vulnerability, to strengthen criminal law against trafficking in human beings and exploitation, and to facilitate action by the police and other authorities against the crime associated with the begging.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-68	Mr President, I would like to In a police report from 2015, it was estimated that about 4,700 EU migrants stayed in Sweden with the aim of begging on our streets. This may in many cases be voluntary, as the Minister pointed out in his reply, but the more general picture is that begging has become a basis for the organised exploitation of vulnerable people. The Swedish Democrats have long pointed out that the begging is organised and that people's vulnerability is exacerbated by the government's unwillingness to recognise and deal with the problems. Of course, the reintegration into the home countries of beggars will be impossible if they do not return to their home countries as soon as possible. Among these 4 000 – 5 000 vulnerable EU migrants, approximately 100 are estimated to be children. Of course, it makes the situation even more serious that children experience begging and are deprived of the opportunity to go to school in their home countries. Different forms of begging bans have shown immediate effect in several different countries. In Holland, the big cities have introduced a begging ban. Within a couple of weeks, the structures that organized the begging have been broken, and the begging has ceased permanently. A begging ban would not take as much resources from, for example, police and security guards as today's widespread begging does. An estimated national begging ban within a few weeks could have the effect that the government has been trying to achieve throughout its term of office: increasing the return of vulnerable EU citizens to their home countries. Two years ago, in February 2016, the Government's national coordinator for vulnerable EU citizens, Martin Valfridsson, presented his final report to the Government and Minister Åsa Regnér. The subsequent press conference presented how the government dealt with a number of issues. Measures taken by the general community which facilitated or encouraged continued begging in various ways, and it was found that the best assistance was achieved through established relief organisations in the home countries of the beggars. In summary, the government's position was less helpful in Sweden and more help in the beggars' home countries. The Swedish Democrats agreed with the conclusion but did not agree with what measures the government intended to take to achieve the goal. A begging ban was dismissed in the final report by Martin Valfridsson and Minister Åsa Regnér. Then, among others, Ylva Johansson, Magdalena Andersson, Anders Ygeman, Stefan Löfven and not least current Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson have dismissed a begging ban as a solution to reaching our common conclusions on the begging problem. During the term of office, however, support has increased for the Swedish Democrats' proposal for a national begging ban. Not least, the government's own national coordinator for vulnerable EU citizens, Martin Valfridsson, changed his position. One year after presenting his final report to the government, he advocated a begging ban. In the Riksdag, the Moderates have declared their support for a proposal for a national begging ban. Despite the immediate effect of the ban on begging in other countries, the government has concentrated on other measures. With the facts in hand, we can see that the government's major efforts have not resulted in any change in the number of beggars staying in Sweden. Since the support for a national begging ban is in the hands of both the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, a change of attitude from the government or the Social Democrats individually could result in broad support for a national begging ban in the Swedish parliament. In this connection, I have asked our Minister of Justice a few questions: what conclusions are drawn from what has been done so far? And can the Minister imagine an agreement on a begging ban over the block line, between the Social Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates? I have not really received satisfactory answers in the Minister's initial reply. But I think we have reason to go deeper into this debate.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-83	Mr President, I would like to I think we can all agree that begging is not leading a dignified life. And it has to be countered in many different ways. Basically, it is a question of combating poverty. We did this in Sweden once, through the expansion of the welfare state. The Social Democratic policy was about reducing disparities and combating poverty. We created a situation where the begging in Sweden decreased dramatically, not to say almost disappeared. It was an effect of the Social Democratic welfare policy. It is clear that we would like to see such social reforms in countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. If they were to take on board a social democratic welfare policy, the situation there would be quite different. We are making some efforts to help with that very thing, in both Romania and Bulgaria. That is what I mentioned in my answer when it came to cooperation with those countries. This is basically about poverty, and it is about vulnerable people. When you go into these questions, you must always have a strong measure of empathy. It is about people – men, women and children. We need to make sure they get a better life in the future. One cannot escape the fact that this is also linked to some disruption and crime. And we've seen a lot of changes over the last few years in terms of that. When we took office in 2014, there was a large camp in the middle of Malmö, in Sorgenfri, which no one had bothered to do anything about. It had been there year after year. The old government did nothing in any direction to address such a problem at all. There were also major discussions about people living in the forest, in huts. In my view, this issue, that is to say that people settle on private land or occupy private land in this way, is much smaller now, partly as a result of the legislation that we came forward with last year. If we look at matters relating to special hand-holds, when some landowner requests help from the police to evict people who have settled on private land, we can see a marked drop of over 20 percent in a year, from 2016 to 2017. My assessment is that this reduction continues. Adam Marttinen talks about a group of between 4 000 and 5 000. This was the assessment made in 2015. But then he also says that there are 100 children. I've been looking and looking to find evidence for those 100 kids. But I can't find such a thing and therefore wonder where he got that number from. Maybe it's from 2015. Then we also had a discussion about children of beggars could go to school in Sweden. But the assessment now is that it is very rare that there are children in such a situation. In addition, in recent years we have seen a number of convictions on trafficking in human beings that have led to quite long prison sentences. It also sends a signal to the outside world. In addition, a bill on human exploitation is now on the table of the Riksdag. We want to ban the possibility of making money out of the begging of others. It is a kind of parallel to the long-standing leniency legislation. I think it will also have a great effect. So we take it step by step. I do not rule out that we will have to do more to remedy the basic problem itself. But what we have done during this parliamentary term is much more than the old government did. It has also produced results, Mr President.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-94	Mr President, I would like to When the government presented the investigation into vulnerable EU citizens through Martin Valfridsson in 2016, the government concluded that it would be best if those begging on our streets could return to their home countries as soon as possible to begin integration there. That, of course, is a reasonable and logical conclusion. But it has proved to be quite empty words from the government. They have not resulted in any significant difference in the number of beggars living in Sweden. The government has also pointed out that anyone who gives money to beggars risks supporting human trafficking. There is therefore daily a fully visible collection of money throughout the country; there is a real risk of human traffickers making money and strengthening their position in our country through an activity in which people are exploited and subjected to crime. At the same time, we have a police authority that has been commissioned by the government to do almost nothing, that is to say nothing that really breaks down the structures that are the prerequisites for people being exploited and subjected to different types of crime. The government's main effort has been to increase the likelihood of a conviction against persons guilty of crimes within these structures. But for obvious reasons, the propensity to report is very low because those who are exposed to organised begging and human trafficking have a very weak position in our country and are often in a strong position of dependence on leading people in the begging business. Since organized begging has not stopped, the government's efforts are demonstrably more or less ineffective. It is also not enough for easy-to-understand reasons to hope that stronger anti-trafficking legislation will be able to break down the structures of organised begging. As I said, there are sparkles of light around Europe, as I said in my previous speech. These structures have been broken down in quite a short time. The easiest way to do this is to ban begging in different ways, through a national begging ban or a begging ban in places where there are usually a lot of people and where it is easy to get money by begging. Tackling income in particular, the possibility of getting an income through begging, is the main solution for breaking down these structures as quickly as possible. My questions focused on what conclusions the Minister draws from the measures taken so far. I agree that it is a good thing to tighten up the penalties for different types of crime. I'm fine. But what conclusions does the Minister draw from the government's measures taken so far, in terms of the number of beggars living in Sweden? We have not seen a dramatic reduction in those who are staying in Sweden to beg. Does the Minister rule out a national begging ban at all? We may not have to decide today whether the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Government or the Social Democrats individually will cooperate in a cross-block settlement. But does the Minister of Justice generally rule out the proposal for a begging ban in any form? That is a question to which I would also like to have an answer, if only as a matter of fact to the electorate.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-102	Mr President, I would like to It is completely wrong to say that the police are doing nothing. And it is even more wrong to claim that the government has told the police not to do anything. It is enough to look at all the work actually done by the police, such as evictions from private land. I mentioned that the number of notifications of evictions from private landowners who feel that others have settled on their land has apparently decreased. But when the police get that kind of case in, it's clear you're fixing it. I also mentioned a number of judgments against precisely those who organise the begging and who have thus engaged in trafficking in human beings. For the first time, we have received a number of such sentences, resulting in quite long prison sentences. It is the police that conducts those criminal investigations, and it is the police who ensure that they lead them in cases when they go to court. So it is completely wrong to claim that the police are doing nothing or that the government has told the police not to do anything. It's the other way around! The police have been given increased opportunities when it comes to removal. The new legislation on human exploitation now also gives us greater opportunities to get to grips with this. That proposal is on Parliament's table and, as I said, will enter into force on 1 July 2018. Adam Marttinen asks me about my conclusions on what our actions have led to so far. I mentioned in my previous post that when we took office there was a large camp in the middle of Malmö, in Sorgenfri. It was torn down and disappeared after only a few months. The new eviction rules have also reduced the number of cases by 20% from one year to another. My picture, however, is that the trend we saw towards the development of some sort of shantytown has slowed down considerably. This may mean that they live or sleep elsewhere than before, perhaps in cars or caravans. But my assessment is that situations where private land is occupied have been reduced. How are we going to move on? As I said, on the table of Parliament there is a new proposal for human exploitation with punitive measures and the extension of the criminalised area. I do not rule out the need to do more. However, when Adam Marttinen points out that there are countries with general bans, I would also like to point out that general begging bans are not actually the norm, either in the Nordic countries or in Europe. It does not exist in Germany, it does not exist in Norway, it does not exist in France, it does not exist in Finland, it does not exist in Italy and it does not exist in Austria. There are different ways of addressing this issue from different countries. In fact, having a general ban that applies everywhere is not the norm in Europe. Adam Marttinen will know that we on the Socialist side have said that we are prepared to review the law of order in order to look at what interference this begging may involve and that we may be prepared to amend this legislation too. There is reason to come back in that part. However, the proposal now before Parliament on human exploitation legislation is, I believe, an important step along the way.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-111	Mr President, I would like to When I said that the government has commissioned the police to do nothing, that sentence went on to say: that really breaks down the structures that organise begging and lead to human trafficking. Surely we must be able to agree that there is still widespread begging in Sweden and that the widespread begging often leads to people being exploited? In that sense, I had an important point that the police have not actually managed to break down the structures that ordinary people can see out in the streets and squares, in front of shops and elsewhere. I still want a little clarification on the very question of whether the Social Democrats exclude a begging ban. We often have a response that does not rule out the need to do more. However, I would like a concrete answer to the question whether the Minister is precisely excluding a ban on begging. It should not be too much to ask for a concrete answer to that. On the second question, what the government has done so far to counter this, we agree that crimes related to begging should be prosecuted and that there should be robust legislation to punish those who subject other people to serious penalties. But the big difference is not made by prosecuting people who are reported for crimes, but the big difference is when you attack the actual condition for this begging problem to exist in Sweden, namely the collection of money. A begging ban is not the norm in Europe, but it is the solution in Europe that has had the greatest effect in the shortest time. We have a proposal that has been put into practice in several different countries with good results in a short time. Is it not worth that we try it in Sweden too, instead of doing what the government has tried to do for a full term without success? The answer to the question of a ban by the Social Democrats remains. I would like an answer to that question.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-115	Mr President, I would like to The measures we have taken with regard to the reinforced removal rules have been effective; that is my absolute assessment. We do not have the situation that we had at the beginning of our term of office. I have given examples of open large camps that used to exist. People put up accommodations on private land that they then just let go of there. This was the case during the period of the previous government. This is no longer the case, but we have reinforced the possibilities for the police and private landowners to get to grips with this. Today, it is on Parliament's table that proposals are being made for both penalties for trafficking in human beings and for some people to earn money from the begging of others. Just the situation that Adam Marttinen mentioned in one of his speeches, that is, that some people go around collecting money from other people who have begged and forced off their income, we address with this new legislation. On the issue of bans, general bans on begging are not everywhere the usual picture in Europe, and I gave examples of a number of countries that do not have such legislation – Germany, Norway, France, Finland, Italy, Austria. On the other hand, we on the Socialist side have said that we can be prepared to review the law of order in order to tighten up the rules on disorder, and we will, of course, clarify our line on this issue before the electoral movement. But we are not prepared to take a path towards a general begging ban.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-119	Mr President, I would like to Anders Hansson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to restore the former special units of the Politiska ombudsman responsible for investigating drug crime. The government is promoting a public health-based approach to alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy, addressing both supply and demand for drugs. The government believes that the public health perspective also includes a restrictive drug policy as an important means of preventing drugs from entering the Swedish market. The work of a drug-free society is a self-evident and important part of the activities of the Political Authority. The agency works in a number of ways against drugs, for example through targeted patrols and by being extra visible in vulnerable places. Of course, the police authorities are also working on targeted interventions against drugs, which are often the main sources of income for criminal groups. The drug situation and the problem are different in the country. Against this background, the work of the Political Authority is also different in the regions. The Government has made it clear on several occasions that it is the needs of the operations that will govern the composition of competence within the Police Authority. The Government does not intend to control which specialist competences or groups should exist in the Police Authority. It is the Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to fulfil the tasks and objectives of the Authority. With regard to the fight against drugs, criminal law has a central role to play. During its term of office, the Government has introduced two new offences in the field of drugs: particularly serious drug offences and particularly serious drug trafficking. In recent years, the need for camera surveillance in places where there is an open drug sale has been highlighted. In recent times, therefore, camera surveillance has increased significantly in crime-prone locations. The government recently proposed a new camera surveillance team that will further increase the possibilities of using camera surveillance in places where there are problems with crime and disorder of order. The government has also set up an investigation to abolish the permit requirement for police camera surveillance. Effective law enforcement also requires resources. The government has therefore proposed and announced large increases in resources in a number of budgets to the Police Authority, which allows the agency to increase the number of employees and thereby increase its capacity and efficiency. The government has also created the conditions for training more police officers, including by increasing the number of universities that can provide police training. These measures provide better opportunities for the Police Authority to both strengthen and develop police activities, including the work against drug crime. The government has also stated in various contexts, including in the Political Authority's regulation letter for 2018, the importance of paying particular attention to the drug problem in police work.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-125	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for a good answer. I can immediately admit to the Government that he has friends in me and the Moderates in continuing a very restrictive drug policy. Before I was given the confidence to become a member of Parliament, I worked at the Customs Criminal Tribunal in Malmö as a criminal investigator. This involved inter alia questioning suspected drug smugglers as part of Customs' well-functioning law enforcement. Some of them were victims of drugs themselves and had an addiction. These are sad stories, where lives have been destroyed by the fact that people are often young when they have been introduced to drugs and caught in an addiction. Often, their abuse not only destroyed their own lives, but also had a very negative and sad effect on their families. My interpellation is due to the fact that, during the majority of operational visits to the police in external service, I am told that their work against drugs is both fragmented and ineffective. The police crisis in Sweden, where we now have fewer police officers than we had almost four years ago, marks its mark on the day-to-day police work. Only rapid intervention can be dealt with, and long-term crime prevention efforts have been reversed, not least in the field of drugs. Mr President, I would like to The reorganisation of the police that started in 2015 was necessary. It was unreasonable to have 21 different police authorities. I fully support the measures to make all these authorities a common authority. Having said that, not everything has become as we legislators might have wished. Unfortunately, the fight against drugs is one of the most affected functions. From a cross-police perspective, the fight against drugs would now be down at local police level. That was, and that is, a great disappointment of the reorganisation. Together with the traffic police, the narcotics police were now split up into smaller units – something that greatly disadvantaged the work in this area. Now several police regions themselves have addressed the problem and returned to the old order of special drug groups in the police. This has been done in secret and is in fact contrary to what the reorganisation originally said. On a visit to the Justitie Committee, I asked the then National Police Commissioner, Dan Eliasson, about special drug police officers and police regions. His reply was that the removal and redeployment of the narcotics police were carried out in full compliance with the directives he had received from the government in connection with the reorganisation. I therefore welcome the answer given by Minister Johansson that it is now entirely up to the police and police regions to govern the composition and competence of the police in the best and most appropriate way. My hope is that this message has reached all the police regions in the country. Mr President, I would like to The fight against drugs must be long-term, preventive and effective. It'll take a lot of cops. Today there is a very serious and worrying shortage. The number of police officers in external service working on these issues is too small. The government beats itself to the chest and mentions the big investments it has made on the police and not least the big investments it wants to make in the future. Yet, after almost four years of government, we are standing here with a reduction in the number of police officers overall. There are empty chairs at the Police College and about 900 police officers a year who resign, most of which are not retirements. The police haven't got any new colleagues to work with, but fewer. Police presence in some parts of the country is minimal, and crime can spread. In particular, the fight against drugs requires experience, specialist skills and continuity.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-136	Mr President, I would like to Anders Hansson must have missed a large part of the police development that is now taking place. We are implementing, as Anders Hansson says, the biggest investment in the police force in 20 years. There will be 2 billion more this year, 2.3 billion the following year and 2.8 billion thereafter. No government of any color has invested as much in the police as we do now. Nor has anyone increased the resources of the police as quickly as we are now. Now we also see that the number of police officers has increased and will increase this year. We took office in 2014. On December 31, 2014, there were 20,051 police officers. On the last December of this year there will be 20 100. I won't say it's an increase, but it's a small increase. At least that is not the reduction that we want to try so hard to claim in the debate. What is happening this year and next is that the great hills that we are now training are going out. Just a few weeks ago, 461 new police aspirants went out. The next fall will be 600 more. Next year, 1 300 out of police training. These are the biggest hills we've had in almost ten years. This should be compared with how the bourgeois government cut down on police training. In two years, between 2008 and 2010, 90 percent was cut. Then there was too low a level of 600 - 700 police officers per year. What we're doing now is training twice as many police officers as the Moderates did. We are making up for the cut that the Moderates made during their period. We make sure to switch up so that there can be 10 000 more employees in the police organization up to 2024. We also ensure that resources are resourced in this way. I would also like to say that the police are gathering strength against drugs. We shall not have any drug sales in Sweden. We will see to it that the police are hard on those who are involved in selling drugs. I see a lot of examples in Sweden right now of how the police work very well aimed at drugs. In Helsingborg only a few days ago they made a large pool of power and a big bust. I think there's 11 people in custody after focusing on these gangs. They took out a large transhipment center in Skåne just 14 days ago. Gothenburg has worked extremely well, especially when it comes to Bishopsgården, and managed to knock out a large part of open drug sales. Here in Stockholm they conduct the Max initiative, which is a targeted effort against organised crime. This has led to the arrest of many of the most active individuals. This has been done, among other things, in the light of the desire to counteract and put an end to the shootings. I see a lot of such good police work being done right now. Then I also see how camera surveillance is used in a completely different way to combat crime. Now we have cameras in Rinkeby, Tensta, Husby, Rosengård, Hjällbo, Bergsjön and a number of other places where you can have camera surveillance at places where we know that there was previously open drug sales. We also see that in the crime statistics. Now the number of reported investigations is increasing to prosecutors. Investigations on drug offences are the most increasing; we see an increase of 11 per cent from 2016 to 2017. Nevertheless, my assessment is that when the reorganisation is completed, we are in a situation where the police can invest, where they have their organisation ready and where they gather strength, including against drugs.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-147	Mr President, I would like to I recently visited the police in Ystad, which is my constituency and the minister's constituency. It covers the entire southeast corner of beautiful Skåne. I met four highly involved police officers, all of whom worked in external service, and two equally involved local police officers. Everyone was deeply concerned and almost despaired about their own perceived inadequacy in working preventively and being present in the population. Some of them had begun to wonder if they could actually continue in the profession that they enjoy so much. They lacked colleagues to be able to carry out their work in the best possible way. The lack of presence in society had led to a marked increase in drug sales in the police area. Cops who want to work against drugs, like the rest, became all-round policemen and went on all the other crimes that were reported at regular intervals. There was no time for continuity in their preventive work. It is an untenable situation for the inhabitants as well as for the talented police officers who try to do their utmost on a daily basis. Mr President, I would like to Punishments, camera surveillance, increased training places and more are good measures. But the slowness of the government in taking other measures to keep police officers and recruit new police officers has put us in a situation where the word crisis actually has to be used. Police presence is in some places so low that municipalities cancel their cooperation agreements with the police because the authority is still unable to fulfil its part of the agreements with police presence in the preventive work. In my constituency and in the constituency of the Government, three police stations, those in Skurup, in Sjöbo and in Tomelilla, which are located just outside our constituency, were recently announced to free up staff. We read in the newspaper this morning that the police in Stockholm are cutting back on emergency training for police because you need them elsewhere. For residents who already lack their present police force, the closure of the police stations becomes the ultimate surrender. I can see a certain logic in taking out external personnel instead of sitting in police stations. However, it places great demands on the police to actually show increased police presence in the municipalities in which the decisions are implemented. Mr President, I would like to The police shortage means that specialised drug groups are rarely able to work long-term and only with these tasks. It is now setting its mark. The larger cities do better because they can distribute more. But outside the big cities, it's a concern. I am concerned about the development and lack of long-term vision, especially in the field of prevention. My hope is that Minister Johansson feels the same concern and really takes these concerns seriously. Otherwise, there is a risk that more young people will get caught up in the swamp of drugs and destroy their lives. Then we get into the number of cops. I definitely welcome more cops. That's what I'm really constantly pushing: we need more cops. In 2014, we had 20,051 police officers. In 2017, we have 19,741. Every year in the last three years, nearly 900 police officers have left, most of them for reasons other than retirement.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-157	It is a good thing that you want new training places and new places to locate police colleges, but we have to fill those places if there is to be more colleagues for those who want to work in the police profession. Here the answer is still that the number of policemen has declined a lot – the police are no longer happy. In fact, the government is guilty of the answer as to why this is so.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-158	Mr President, I would like to From this year on, the number of police officers will increase. Just a couple of weeks ago, over 460 police officers graduated. Another 600 will arrive in the autumn, and there will be another 1 300 next year. The police's development plan, which has been reported to me, shows that it is perfectly possible to make the expansion that we want to make by 2024 with 10 000 more employees, of which about two thirds should be police officers and about one third should be civilian employees. It's not free to do this. It costs about 12 billion by 2024, according to the police. It is clear that this is the constant priority, that is to say, we must ensure that the resources of society are so large that we are able to manage the activities of the police. That is exactly what the old government failed to do. Now Anders Hansson says there must be more police. Then my counter-question is: why do you cut down on the number of training places by 90%? You cut 90 percent from 1,700 seats to 142 in two years. It was a quick stop. The answer, of course, is that you ran out of money. You'd bet your money on other things, and when you had to cut back, you did it to the police. That's what we're still living with, because it takes a few years to train police officers. What we must now have is stability, of course, and long-termness. We cannot keep up with this twitching that is created if you increase and then just pull down heavily. We need to make sure we have long-term planning for the police in the future. As I said, we have done it. We've tightened the penalties on the drugs side. We have invested in customs, and there will be additional money in that part now with our amending budget. There are now more cameras up than ever before. Especially in many of the vulnerable areas, cameras are up and it generally has very strong support among the population. We're also training more police officers right now than we've done in almost ten years-- twice as many as the Moderates did. Then there is another aspect of this, too, which I would like to mention when we are talking about drugs. It is that we should be hard on the supply of drugs. We will prevent drugs from entering Sweden, knock out open drug sales and lock up those who engage in this. But we also need to go on demand. It's hugely important. Sometimes reality isn't what you think. When you ask young people in Stockholm County about drug use, you find out where it is most common. Does Anders Hansson know in which municipality the most young people answer that they use drugs? Well, it's in Danderyd, the strongest stronghold of Moderates. I would like to hear Anders Hansson talk about it. How can it be that Danderyd is the municipality where young people apparently do the most drugs? Why is that? And what can be done to try to change this with prevention? I think it is about the fact that there is quite a lot of money there and that the parents may not always be there. There is a great need to involve preventive measures in such municipalities. We have to go on the supply side of the law enforcement measures that we are implementing, and we have to go on demand. It may well be that in the Stockholm region it is a part of the upper class that keeps drug traffic going. Then we must dare to see it and actually go on it too.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-166	Mr President, I would like to Drug use is bad, of course, whoever is affected and regardless of where you live. What is the reason for doing so in Danderyd, I think the Minister himself is in on it when he says that is where the money to buy the drugs is. I think that is tragic in every way, but I would have thought it was just as tragic if it had happened in Tensta or in Rosengård. I suffer from people who get stuck in the drug swamp no matter where they live. The minister's on a story that the Moderates did cut back on police training. Absolutely, we did. Our election promise in 2006, when Sweden had 17,500 police officers, was that we would find 20,000 police officers. We got that: 20 051, as the Government itself has said. We brought in many to fill the 2,500 missing seats. Had we continued at the same rate, the number would have increased and increased, and nobody in this Parliament wanted to. After all, it was even the case that the Social Democrats thought 20 000 was too much, so this is a strange reasoning. When we had taken in a large number of students to reach 20,000 police officers, we then reduced the number of seats so that there would be a supply of the 20,000 seats and not an increase. If we had seen that we could have had as many police officers as we wanted, we would have continued to do so, but that was not the decision we had in Parliament and so we pulled down. So that story doesn't hold. We received 20,051 police officers in 2014, which was 51 more than the 20,000 promised. I can't help thinking, when M organ Johansson says that 1,000 police officers will come out now in 2018, that it will be a little poor because 900 have finished annually before. Then the net value is 100 police officers out. Is that how we're supposed to see it?
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-169	Mr President, I would like to To increase the number of police officers, we need to do a lot of things. We need to educate more, and now we are training twice as many as the Moderates did. We also need to ensure that the police profession develops and improves and that the police become an attractive employer. Of course, we need to make sure that there are good career paths, development opportunities and educational opportunities. I see how the issue of wages is now developing as well. A good agreement has been signed, the best in the labour market in fact, between the Police Association and the Police Authority, which already means a substantial increase in police pay in spring. This means that they are significantly above the so-called mark that applies to other groups. That's important, too. Then Social Democrats have never criticised the target of 20 000 – on the contrary, because it was we who launched it once before the 2006 elections. Then we said we needed to get up to 20,000 cops. What the Moderates then did was to meet the demand of up to 20,000 police officers, but then they ran out of money, and then they drew a lot of money. 90 percent was cut, which caused very serious concerns about staff supply. In addition, you abolished military service, and when you did, you also cut down on the Recruiting Authority, i.e. the authority that tests the police. What we have now had to do is scale up not only police training but also the Recruiting Authority to ensure that all police officers can do their thesis. As of this spring, we have so many psychologists and others in place at the Recruiting Authority that they can test all the competent applicants for police training. We haven't had that before, as a result of your cutback. As I said, M in image is that the police are gathering strength against the drugs, and we see that in the results as well.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-173	Mr President, I would like to Anders Hansson has asked me whether I intend to take any action with a view to reviewing the guidelines for the cost of interpreting in court. As Anders Hansson points out, the costs of interpreters have increased over time. In recent years there has been an increase in cases to our courts, and in many cases the cases have become more extensive and complex. Not only the costs of interpretation increase, but also the costs of public defenders and plaintiffs. The starting point is that the court hearing is held in Swedish, which is a prerequisite for everyone to be able to exercise their constitutionally protected right to follow the hearing. The court may use an interpreter if someone to be heard does not master Swedish or has a hearing loss or speech difficulties. The requirement for an interpreter is absolute in the case of a suspect or plaintiff in a criminal case. The use of an interpreter is essential for the Court's ruling to be based on a correct decision-making basis, and ultimately it concerns the right to a fair trial guaranteed by the ECHR, EU law and other international instruments. Under both the ECHR and EU law, a person who has been accused of a crime is entitled to free assistance from an interpreter if he or she does not understand or speak the language used in the court. As early as the 1970s, the European Court of Human Rights declared that it is not compatible with the right to a fair trial to recover the cost of interpretation from the defendant. My question to Anders Hansson is therefore whether he believes that Sweden should no longer honour its commitments under the European Convention and EU law. An interpreter is entitled to reasonable remuneration for the assignment. The Court of Justice has been tasked with establishing an interpreter's tariff that applies not only to courts but also, for example, to police, prosecutor and enforcement authorities. There is also a rich court practice on how to apply the tax. The Swedish Government, Anna Ekström, has previously, on 6 March, answered a question from Anders Hansson about measures to reduce government expenditure on interpreters. I believe, like Anna Ekström, that there is a big difference between everyday Swedish and Swedish an educated interpreter should be able to in a court hearing. The trial of qualified interpreters is central to an effective and legally secure judicial process. The Government has therefore taken steps to ensure that the qualified interpreter resources available are used effectively. In 2016, the Government commissioned the Swedish National Courts Administration to support a more efficient use of interpreters in court. The task included developing and developing video technology at the courts to facilitate interpretation at a distance, a measure which could, inter alia, reduce travel expenses for the interpreters employed. The central issue for me is to improve access to and use of interpreters so that we have a legally secure process in our courts. The government has taken several steps to achieve this, and I do not see any need to take any action in relation to the way in which the current system is designed.
i-UYDRjUHQRoiBihgKNNCcsC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The costs of court interpretation and other interpretations by our authorities have increased dramatically over time. With increased internationalisation and a large refugee reception, our authorities, our municipalities, our county councils and the state are required to pay out large sums of money each year for interpretation. For the individual, the interpretation is completely free – it goes on the public – and needs testing is not done to a great extent. The public always bears the cost. Mr President, I would like to The right to an interpreter shall be inviolable and absolute. If you cannot understand the language used by the authorities, you should be assisted in this. What is never discussed, however, is whether it is reasonable that the state and the public always bear the full cost of interpretation. Few, if any, would question that a foreign citizen who is forced to come into contact with Swedish authorities is in need of an interpreter. Similarly, no one would question whether an asylum seeker requests an interpreter in order to understand what Swedish government officials are saying and be able to make themselves understood. But what if the person requesting an interpreter has Swedish citizenship and has been in Sweden for 20 years? Is it reasonable, then, for the state to bear the full cost of interpreting? I do not think so. I believe that this person has had a reasonable time to learn the Swedish language and thus have to pay part of the interpreter's cost or even the entire cost. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, Minister Johansson rightly points to the ECHR, EU law and other international conventions aimed at ensuring the right to an interpreter and, if accused of a crime, the right to free assistance by an interpreter. The Government also states that as early as the 1970s it was established in the European Court of Human Rights that the cost of interpreting the defendant could not be recovered. Of course, Sweden must comply with both the European Convention and EU law, but yet I cannot help thinking about whether the purpose of these laws was what we are now seeing. 1970 is almost 50 years back. The laws were created so that EU citizens would be entitled to an interpreter if they were in other EU countries. The question I am now raising is whether the country's own citizens in their own home countries, where they have lived for a long time, should have an absolute right to free interpretation in their own national courts or in contact with our authorities. Does the Government think that this is reasonable, or is it perhaps the case that the Government should work for a change or clarification of existing EU legislation so that the laws remain effective and fulfil their original purpose? Mr President, I would like to When talking about integration, all experts and even all political parties seem to agree that language is the key to successful integration, as is the Swedish government, which recently approved the Moderate and other parties' demand for language tests for new arrivals. But what signal do we send if, at the same time, we give the same people the opportunity to use interpreters in government contacts free of charge, that is, at the expense of taxpayers, and for an unlimited period of time? Would it not be reasonable for citizens, after three or five years, to bear part or all of the cost themselves? When interpreting in court, EU law applies – yes – but in contacts with other authorities such as Arbetsförmedlingen, Skatteverket, health care and so on? Does the Government not think that self-financing should increase or at least start?
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-189	Mr President, I would like to I understand what Anders Hansson is after here, but turn it around! Should a Swede who lives in Spain and has been doing this for a long time but has not learned Spanish at a level that means that the person can handle law Spanish also be denied interpretation if he or she becomes a victim of crime in Spain? Does Anders Hansson think that this would be reasonable – that the person does not have the possibility of legal certainty to which everyone else is entitled in Spain? This is clearly what Anders Hansson wants, but there is no support for this approach at all, either in EU law or in the European Convention. It has also been further strengthened by the EU directive on the right of interpreter that came in the last period. Sweden was the driving force in this process. It was Beatrice Ask, my predecessor, who pushed for greater legal certainty throughout Europe, precisely by giving the right to interpretation. Have the Moderates changed in this regard? Is that new tone now? I would like to know this. Anders Hansson is very focused on the very appeal they make, but I would like to remind you that these rights also apply to the plaintiff, the victim of crime, and also witnesses. They also apply to the possibility for the person following a trial to understand what is being said. The public – the Swedish population – should be able to know what is said and dealt with in a trial. For this reason too, interpretation is needed, for one must be able to know what witnesses and plaintiffs actually say when there are language difficulties. This applies to witnesses as well as plaintiffs and defendants. It is not as Anders Hansson says, that it is only free to go, but a needs assessment is made. It is the court that appoints an interpreter on the basis of such an assessment. My question is: does Anders Hansson want to remove the right of witnesses and plaintiffs – the victim of crime – as well? If you do this, the effect could well be that we have fewer offenders convicted, simply because it becomes more difficult in a court hearing to find out what actually happened. Is this the path that Anders Hansson would like to open up to? We have seen an increase in costs for several reasons. But at the same time, if I look at the number of cases where interpreters have been used in recent years, I do not see an increase. There were about 18,000 cases in 2016, and in 2017 there were also 18,000 negotiations. In fact, talking about a dramatic increase in recent years is not correct. We say that we want to reduce costs and that we can do this by, among other things, introducing the video technology that I was talking about. In all courts we are now building videoconferencing technology that makes it easier to hear people from other places, remotely, and also have remote interpretation. This could reduce costs. My main question is: If you have not learned the language of the country and, for example, is a Swede who lives in Spain or an immigrant who lives in Sweden, can you blame yourself if you are a victim of crime and cannot assert your right or make yourself understood in a trial? Is this attitude really compatible with fundamental legal certainty?
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-197	Mr President, I would like to It's a little bit of a concern here. As soon as I start talking about interpreting costs, the government will unsearched into the right to an interpreter, but that's not what I'm talking about. The right to an interpreter shall be absolute and unrestricted. It is who should finance and pay the interpreter who is my whole point, but we always get this argument: Don't you think that you should have the right to an interpreter if you, and so on? Absolutely! But my main question is whether you should have the right to an interpreter where the country's state bears the cost. The total cost of interpretation in courts and administrative courts in 2017 was nearly SEK 115 million, according to a report from the parliamentary investigation service done on my behalf. The accounts do not include costs from the Migration Courts and the Labour Court. But if these are to be included, we will have to add another SEK 13 million, which gives a total of SEK 130 million annually. A high sum, may seem, but then we have not included the other authorities' costs for interpreters. The same report from the investigation service shows that, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen 2017 spends almost 150 million on interpreters. The police department spends a low amount of 122 million on interpreters. The cost of the prison service is 16 million for last year. Most government agencies spend several million on interpreters each year. Together with municipalities and county councils, the costs for interpreters are estimated to be nearly SEK 1 billion annually. Mr President, I would like to Everything is paid for without any objections – at least no major objections – by the public. Is this really reasonable? Should not the government take the initiative to increase its own level of funding for interpreters if the person concerned has had a reasonable time to learn the Swedish language? Would this not be a carrot for learning the language quickly, which benefits integration and cohesion? With regard to the example of the man who has lived for 12 years in Spain, I think that he should definitely pay part of his interpreter's cost to the Spanish State, so that the Spanish State does not bear that cost. However, his right to an interpreter is unlimited. Mr President, I would like to My whole reasoning revolves around the fact that I believe that the non-determinable right to free – i.e. tax-funded – interpreter has not been called into question. The right to an interpreter is left to me, because I believe that this right should be absolute and unrestricted. How it is to be financed or funded is precisely what I would like answers to. Morgan Johansson avoids this question in his answer. Instead, he wants to improve access to and use of interpreters so that we have a legally secure process in our courts. That we should use the interpreters correctly and efficiently, I think everyone agrees, as well as the increased use of video technology. That's great. What is crazy about this is that we have adopted the rules of EU law and the ECHR concerning the free assistance of interpreters in trials to apply to all contacts with Swedish authorities, regardless of whether they should have been able to learn the language during the time they have lived in the country. My question to the Government is therefore: Is the Government ready to take any action on the legislation that is outside the requirements of the ECHR and EU law for a free interpreter? This can apply, for example, to contacts with Swedish healthcare, Försäkringskassan or Arbetsförmedlingen. Or does the Government believe that the right of the individual to a free interpreter should continue to be the general rule, even if the person is a Swedish citizen and has lived in Sweden for over 20 years?
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-205	Mr President, I would like to Now this interpellation is not about interpretation in health care but about interpretation in court. That is why I am standing here because I am responsible for those issues. As I understand it, Anders Hansson is not looking for any right to an interpreter, it is about paying for yourself. It will be legal certainty for the rich, not for those who cannot pay. Let us take an example with a woman who has been here for a few years but has not been able to learn Swedish entirely – at least not at such a level that she understands law Swedish. It doesn't even understand all native Swedes. If something is complicated, it is precisely legal Swedish. Let's say that this woman doesn't know the language so much that she understands what's going on in the trial or understands the questions of defenders and prosecutors. What if, for example, she has been raped? Then Anders Hansson's solution is that she is entitled to an interpreter but that she has to pay it herself. And when she is going to describe what she has been subjected to, is there not a pretty great risk that it will be more difficult for the court to clarify what has actually happened and thus more difficult to have an offender convicted? This is exactly the consequence, Mr President, that would result if we went the way Anders Hansson indicated. I don't think that's reasonable. For those who can afford to pay for their interpreter, it will be legal certainty, but those who cannot afford to pay will end up in a much worse position. It will be a rule of law for the rich. I find that deeply offensive. In addition, as I said, this is contrary to the European Convention. The judgment of the 1970s concerned a review of German law. At the time, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that it was not compatible with the European Convention, and in my view it was well founded. If we were to do what Anders Hansson wants to do, we would be outside the European Convention. Perhaps we should not leave the European Convention with that, but we would deliberately violate its rules in this area, and of course we should not do so. Neither have moderate governments in the past wanted to do so. I mentioned earlier that Beatrice Ask was pushing in the other direction so that we could have stronger and better rules in the area of European law, which has led to the very directive that we have now. I thought that was basically good. I wonder if the Moderates have suddenly changed their attitude and hope that this is not the case. I do not want a development that ultimately leads to the rule of law for the rich while the poor are left out.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-212	Mr President, I would like to Government Morgan Johansson can be very calm that I do not think that there should be such an aspect – whether you are rich or poor – in the whole. But there's got to be a middle ground. We can't say that the state should always pay. There must at some point be a discussion as to whether it is reasonable that a person who has perhaps lived in Sweden for 20 years should still be entitled to a tax-funded interpreter. At some point we have to start saying when it is reasonable to have learned the language. The Social Democrats themselves have come forward with language requirements now, which is great. But a language requirement does not mean anything if after 20 years you can still say that you want an interpreter. However, I think Morgan Johansson has a point, and that is a bit why I am pressing for us not to leave EU law or the European Convention. But at least we have to start by raising a question: Was this what we had in mind? Or is it about when other EU citizens come to Sweden and do not understand the language? But shouldn't there be any demands if you are a Swedish citizen and have lived here for 20 years? Is the law really meant for those who have lived in a country for 20 years and still want an interpreter? I think we need to reflect on this. I believe that a middle way is the right way to begin by examining whether we can introduce a need test with a higher self-financing rate, of course depending on income. I think we have to do this. However, we fully agree that it should not depend on how thick your wallet is. However, we must start asking ourselves when it is reasonable that the people in question should have learned the language so well that they have to bear some of the costs themselves. It should apply in the courts, where it is a little more complicated, and definitely in contact with other authorities.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-216	Mr President, I would like to This is a matter of fundamental legal certainty, and these principles are not being played with in any way. We also need to be consistent. One cannot say in one breath that people should pay more themselves and say in the next breath that it must not be legal certainty only for the rich but also for the poor. These are two completely incompatible positions. I think you have to decide what principle to stick to. As for my example of a woman who has been subjected to crime, Anders Hansson will not escape. And this is not an example that I am pulling out of the air, but it is exactly such concrete situations that we will end up in if we walk the path Anders Hansson wants. In practice, this would dramatically weaken legal certainty for those who are victims of crime and who do not know Swedish at such a level as to cope with situations such as these. In addition, it will be more difficult to have an offender convicted. I think that the same rules should apply to those who are in Sweden and do not know Swedish in full as to Swedes abroad who do not know, for example, Spanish, Italian or French in full. When we live in other countries, we must also have this basic rule of law. If we start to blur this in Sweden, the risk may well be that other countries will start to blur it when it comes to Swedish citizens staying abroad. That is why it is a very bad way to go, I would say, so we will not do that. On the other hand, we are going to reduce costs. We do this with videoconferencing, among other things. But we don't go in there and we don't go up against the rule of law.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-220	Mr President, I would like to Margareta Larsson has asked me if there is a political will to establish a legally secure model in social care to strengthen the quality of both the municipalities and county councils' responsibilities. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for providing good care and care in accordance with laws and regulations. This includes carrying out systematic quality work to strengthen the quality of the services offered. The state is responsible for drafting laws and ensuring that the legislation is complied with. The Health and Welfare Inspection, IVO, has been set up to supervise the health and social services. In accordance with IVO's instructions, supervision shall be planned and carried out on the basis of own risk analyses, unless otherwise provided by law, regulation or special government decision. The supervision shall also include the monitoring of the performance of the activities of health and long-term care with regard to its obligation to carry out self-monitoring. Supervision should be permeated by a patient and user perspective and review that the population receives healthcare and care that is safe, of good quality and conducted in accordance with laws and other regulations. The results of the supervision shall be reported to the audited activities and to the county council or municipality concerned and contribute to the learning and development of the activities. In order for IVO to be able to conduct effective supervision, the government has permanently increased the agency's administrative grant by SEK 70 million from 2017. The Authority has also received temporary funding to streamline its operations. In addition, the Government has strengthened the opportunities for municipalities and county councils to offer good and safe care through substantially increased funding during their term of office with both targeted and general state grants. In conclusion, I believe that there are therefore good conditions for preventing and detecting irregularities in healthcare and care.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-224	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I would still perhaps wish that there could be a little more content in the answer based on the interpellation that I asked. My question is, of course, whether there is a political will to establish a legally secure model for community care. The background to this question arises from the fiasco of the Remuneration Board, which was established in 2013. It was a board appointed by the Government's Board of Directors to compensate those who have been mistreated and mistreated in orphanages and foster homes since 1920. Approximately 1 billion were set aside to compensate the mistreated, but more than half were rejected. It is against that background that I set the interpellation. What went wrong, and how can we protect young people today and the future? The Government answers: more money for IVO and more money overall. So there is a general view that money should solve just all the problems and that we do not need to think further about the strategy itself. It is certainly good that both IVO and municipalities and county councils receive additional resources. But I call for a concrete plan for a functioning judicial system also for the victims of society's crime. Then IVO can certainly be an excellent complement. As regards the Remuneration Board, which was established in 2013 and was added to it in 2016, an analysis should be made of why more than half were rejected. We know with certainty that the then government from the beginning said no to redress for the misbehaved, but after a media storm and the outrage of the other parties had to back off. The question then is: were they red-green at the time too quick to accept a poor compromise in the framework agreement with the other parties? Perhaps the legal management of the Remuneration Board found on their own assessment criteria. That may be one reason why so much was rejected. It may also be that on the board you were so numbed by all the stories you heard that you lost your judgment. But of course it worked badly. There were those who did not get their 30 minutes of oral hearing, as promised. One came from a long distance, nervous and worried, to sit only 15 minutes or 20 minutes. I heard a lot of people say it felt like the decision was made in advance. Others were denied access to oral hearings at all. This is not the case in the public justice system. The fact that a limit was set at 1980 also denied redress to many. There was no right to appeal. It also lacked the right to a legal representative who could bring an action if necessary. Although some evidence suggested that applicants were actually in a particular orphanage, the Board rejected applications on the grounds of legal petitess. Some applicants were verbally gifted. Others could not put their thoughts and feelings into words. The standard sentence of the rejections was: The Board does not find the events to be of a sufficiently serious nature. The Remuneration Board has now been abolished, and it is hoped that this will be forgotten. Today, however, we are facing an even worse stage than 50 to 70 years ago. Never have there ever been so many children and young people cared for in Sweden as now. This applies both to our indigenous young people and to the foreign ones. I would therefore like to see a more concrete plan. How do we do in the future so that history does not repeat itself?
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank Margareta Larsson for the interpellation. Let me begin by underlining that I very much appreciate Margareta Larsson's commitment to the issue that no more children growing up in Sweden will ever have to experience and undergo the same things as the children who have come to be the subject of contributions from the Remuneration Board. This is, of course, extremely important. The reason why in the interpellation response I have not touched on the Remuneration Board to any extent is that the Remuneration Board is not formally included in the question. The interpellant's question is about a legally secure model in community care to strengthen the quality of the municipalities' and county councils' activities. It is also the case that the questions concerning the Remuneration Board and the area within which the Remuneration Board works are on my colleague Lena Hallengren's table – former Åsa Regnér's table. Questions relating to the Remuneration Board is Lena Hallengren absolutely the one best suited to answer based on her responsibility. As Margareta Larsson mentions, the background to the Remuneration Board was a broad political agreement between many parties. The purpose was precisely to provide compensation to those who had been exposed in one way or another. My picture is that the work done by the Remuneration Board was extremely difficult. But as I said, I would like to ask Margareta Larsson to ask further questions specifically concerning the Remuneration Board to Minister Lena Hallengren. On the other hand, as the responsible minister for health care, I am, of course, extremely committed to the issue of how we achieve safe health care in Sweden. I share Margareta Larsson's entry into the part about the fact that it is not, of course, the case that money solves everything. At the same time, however, we know that the activities we are discussing here today need good conditions in order to be able to carry out their work in the best possible way and with high quality. That is also why I mention that during our term of office we have strengthened the Inspection of Health Care and Care in order to carry out effective supervision of the activities of health and long-term care. It is partly based on the fact that it has permanently received increased resources because it has had a very heavy workload but also on the basis that it has received temporary funding specifically during the period to become more efficient in its operations. During the term of office, we have also added a supplement to the instruction to IVO, which means that supervision should be permeated by a patient and user perspective. The purpose of the amendment is to make it clear that supervision is ultimately about ensuring that patients and patients receive good and safe care.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-238	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I do not question the involvement of the Government in this matter at all, on the contrary. When the state enters as a deputy parent, it is extremely important that the entire community care system is well thought out. Despite the fact that the tender procedure for private HVB homes is different today than before, the principle remains the same. One should pay attention to the fact that when pennalism is involved, orphans are in danger. I'm not saying that because I'm accusing everyone who works in the community care department of being rogue. But we must always get to grips with those things. It's a risk business. Man's nature today is the same as it was before, and we must learn from history. I looked a little fast at Google to see what it looks like today. Then I could see that the problem is the same today as before. Last September, the Gothenburg-Post reported about a woman who had been turned off for sexual abuse of young people. IVO alerted last year in September Malmö city and police after reporting on drug abuse and sexual abuse on several HVB homes. After the report, young people were transferred to the hospital. In Härnösand a home was closed last year after severe criticism from IVO. There have been such things as sex, drugs and liquor parties and excluded girls who have been photographed during group rapes. I could tell you a lot, but the debate is short. This is an ax pick. It shows that it's serious. We need to do something concrete and not just spend money. We need to have a concrete plan. If we do not, we can expect a new group of people in 30 years' time who will claim compensation from the state for a lost childhood. More money for IVO and municipalities and strengthened funds is great. But IVO acts on the basis of a symptom. I would like to see more legal certainty in order to reduce the number of notifications to IVO. It is about some form of accountability for municipalities and society when it comes to crimes against children. These youths need all the support and redress to get on with their lives when they do.
i-5Cadon8eQfHVFVsGJAVaxy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for the post! I was in my last post on IVO's mission and what is on my table. This also applies to the task of the National Board of Health and Welfare. It has developed regulations and general guidelines on management systems for systematic quality work and such. I hear what Margareta Larsson says about her concerns about social care for children and young people and HVB homes. Before I became a minister, I was the union chairman of Vision, which organises staff in social care for children and young people and at HVB homes. I know pretty well what it looks like. I can also emphasise that there have been and are still reasons to work to increase the quality of social care for children and young people, not least in relation to the connection to HVB homes. During the term of office, the Government has provided significant resources to social care for children and young people, in order to, among other things, employ more staff and strengthen and improve quality. One situation that made this need quite obvious was in connection with the refugee crisis in autumn 2015, when very many unaccompanied children came to Sweden. This brought us very quickly to a very strong pressure on social care for children and young people. We were given clear indications that it did not hold and risk failing to fulfil its mission, in which case we urgently provided resources to strengthen it. As Margareta Larsson points out, I have followed many of the incidents she lifts up. There is definitely a continued reason to follow the business and to work to strengthen the quality. As Minister of State, my role in this case is to ensure that the authorities that I have at my disposal are equipped in such a way that they are able to carry out their task in relative terms, that the supervision that they are to exercise is of good quality and that they do it well. As I said, in addition to the resources for IVO during its term of office and in addition to targeted resources for social care for children and young people, we have also increased the general state grants to municipalities and county councils. One such thing that became quite obvious in connection with the refugee crisis in autumn 2015 was the need to strengthen, for example, the staffing side. Then you have to have the resources to do it. It is about the importance that we jointly and also politically raise the value of having a high quality in the activities that are responsible for ensuring that children and young people who are in vulnerable situations receive the best possible support and protection. It is important that we remove such actors from the activities that should not be there.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-256	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what she says. But we should also learn from history. That is why I would like to refer again to the Remuneration Board. We still had a pilot project with the Remuneration Board. The Board should be evaluated, and files need to be reviewed. In order to show that we take this issue seriously, perhaps some form of special court should be set up in the future, preferably in the administrative court, where everyone can have their case brought before or after 1980. My idea is that even those who were rejected in the Remuneration Board on the basis of the bad foundations could have a chance again to have their case tried. I also think that people should have the right to appeal and the right to a legal representative who goes through the whole history with the applicant in order to be able to help in bringing an action. Many of these people went on tranquilizers to go there at all. They're in a very bad position. Only then can we all be equal before the law, including those victims of crime by society and the state. I think that almost the only way to raise quality is for us to do such concrete things in the judicial system. A model could also be established whereby the State could be the guarantor of the payment of compensation, which could then be recovered from the municipalities. Then I believe that, by acting in this way, we are helping and increasing the measures that the Government mentions with resources and such things directed at IVO. It can be a very good complement to be able to deal with these unpleasant things.
i-3d1041913d2b49fc-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Larsson, for the post! As has been said, during this parliamentary term, we have really tried, on the basis of my remit and the opportunities I have, to work on strengthening the conditions for supervision. I also referred a little bit to what we have done when it comes to social care for children and young people, but I think there needs to be more. I also hear that Margareta Larsson has very clear thoughts about these issues and what she would like to see for possible development. That is why I would really like to call on Margareta Larsson to put the corresponding questions to Minister Lena Hallengren so that she, too, can take part in such a debate and dialogue. I think she'd appreciate that very much. Thank you for a good debate!
