i-8384a545c818b405-6	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with unfair trading practices between companies in the food chain, MJU25. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. Unlike the majority of committees, we share the government's assessment of the application of the principle of subsidiarity with regard to the proposal on protection against unfair trading practices in the food chain. The aim of the proposal is to establish a common minimum level of protection in the EU against unfair trading practices for the weakest actors in the food chain. Despite years of discussion, analysis and recommendations, such a minimum level has not been established in the EU. There are 20 Member States that have national legislation, while 8, including Sweden, do not have such national legislation. According to the Commission, UTP is defined as trading practices that deviate from principles of good business practice, common sense and fair treatment. In practice, it is a transfer of own business risks and costs from stronger to weaker actors in the food chain. There is widespread agreement that unfair trading practices exist throughout the food chain. Targeted protection for small and medium-sized operators in the food chain is justified because they often lack sufficient bargaining power to defend themselves against unfair trading practices. These methods include, for example, payment periods longer than 30 days for fresh goods, cancellation of orders for fresh goods with short storage, unilateral and retroactive changes in terms of terms and conditions and the requirement for the supplier to pay for losses incurred at the buyer's premises. I heard about a cucumber farmer who some week before the harvest had his order cancelled, which meant that he had to plow down the whole field with cucumbers. For the purposes of applying the Directive in Sweden, the Directive is deemed to protect some 130 000 suppliers in the food chain in their dealings with buyers in the food chain who have a total of more than 250 employees and more than EUR 50 million in annual turnover. It is these approximately 60 buyers who could be covered by the Directive and could be notified. Both food businesses and the LRF confirm that unfair trading practices are common. The LRF considers that an EU-level framework of national adaptation is needed. Mr President, I would like to The majority of committees questions why unfair trading practices should be necessary to curb EU regulation in the agricultural sector in particular when similar problems can occur in other areas as well. Why it is necessary, is described as follows: Business risks occur in all economic activities. But there is particular uncertainty in agricultural production, as it depends on biological processes and weather conditions, and because agricultural production is to a greater or lesser extent perishable and seasonal. In the field of agricultural policy, which is now more market-oriented than in the past, protection against unfair trading practices has become more important for operators in the food chain and especially for farmers and their organisations. Against this background, we believe that the proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity, which is what we are going to consider here today. Member States have failed to resolve the problem of insufficient protection against unfair trading practices in the food chain. Therefore, there is a need for action at EU level to address the problem. The proposal put forward by the Commission represents a low degree of harmonisation which prohibits the most serious unfair trading practices but allows Member States to introduce stricter legislation.
i-8384a545c818b405-18	Mr President, I would like to In this report, we are dealing with the question of whether the Commission's proposal regarding unfair trading practices between companies in the food chain complies with the principle of subsidiarity. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The majority of the committee considers that the Commission's proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity and proposes that the Parliament submit a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. I want to make it very clear that we in the Alliance believe that the issue of unfair trading practices that companies use in the food chain should be taken very seriously. However, we believe that neither the government nor the Commission has been able to demonstrate clearly that the proposal aims to solve cross-border problems in the internal market. We therefore believe that this is an issue that is best resolved at national level. We also note that as late as 2016 the Commission considered that regulation at EU level was not justified. The proposed regulatory framework requires proper analysis of the impact on national regulatory frameworks. One should be well aware that the proposal restricts Swedish free contract law. In addition, it can be noted that long payment periods are not unique to the food industry, but also affect small operators in other sectors. It is important to address these problems. But it is not clear that this is best done at European level. In conclusion, however, I would like to add that given the state of the negotiations, it seems that, regardless of what we think of subsidiarity, it will be a directive. In the further negotiations, it is obviously important that Sweden is a constructive negotiating partner.
i-8384a545c818b405-24	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that free contract law requires equal partners in order to have equal conditions. The LRF considers that an EU-level framework is needed around the UTP. The issue is generally important at EU level and is linked to the common agricultural policy. The gradual reform of CAP has weakened the previous price support policy. Furthermore, measures in the food chain are an important complement to other measures under CAP in the area of risk management. This applies, for example, to how the impact of low world market price impacts should be addressed. At the same time, relations between Member States with regard to UTP vary, so a national adaptation of the framework at EU level is needed.
i-8384a545c818b405-27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. As I said in my speech, it is incredibly important that we look at the contractual relations in the food industry and also in other sectors where it is felt that small players have problems with large players. In Sweden we have a well-functioning legal system, and we have an effective judicial system. We have a contract law that could, for example, invoke Section 36 on unfair contractual terms. Many of the problems highlighted in dealing with the EU proposal relate to the lack of effective judicial systems in other countries. In 2016, the Commission considered that it was too early to proceed with directives as many voluntary measures have just been taken in the countries. You should wait for them before you move on.
i-8384a545c818b405-30	Mr President, I would like to There the EU has changed its mind now and says that the patchwork of rules on unfair trading practices in the Member States or the absence of such rules may constitute an obstacle to achieving a fair standard for the agricultural population. Unfair trading practices jeopardise the profitability of agricultural producers and put their incomes under pressure. Their governance is therefore part of the common agricultural policy in the EU. I don't understand why we can't follow this. Swedish producers also have customers in other countries. If we were to have national guidelines, they would not apply there.
i-8384a545c818b405-32	Mr President, I would like to I understand very well that different assessments can be made on this issue. This is, of course, something that we must follow in the near future. As has already been said, it is important that we are a constructive negotiating partner in the further negotiations in the European Union now that it seems to be becoming a directive after all. But the really small players, who are the ones who have the really big problems, usually act within the country. It is extremely important that an effective judicial system is put in place. There is certainly more to do in Sweden. I believe that we should start at national level instead of lifting power to the European Union. The EU has enough problems to contend with at the moment.
i-8384a545c818b405-34	Mr President, I would like to I think we are fairly agreed that the EU is already interfering far too much with what the Member States are doing. Therefore, we should always ask ourselves when proposals for new directives and regulations come from Brussels: is this really something that the EU should decide, or can the Member States themselves resolve it? That is why there is the so-called subsidiarity principle, which deals with this very issue. If a decision can be taken at a lower level, the decision shall also be taken at the lower level. In plain language: If Member States or Member States' municipalities and county councils can resolve anything, this responsibility should not be passed on to Brussels. Europe should focus on a few things and do it as well as possible. There is now a proposal from the EU for regulation – a harmonisation law on measures against so-called unfair trading practices between companies in the food chain. Just as Maria Stenergard from the Moderates said here earlier, the European Commission concluded only two years ago that regulation in this area was not justified. In fact, it may be considered that the common agricultural policy is quite bureaucratic already as it is and that we do not need to impose new burdens on our Swedish companies and consumers. That is why we in the Left Party also think that we should dismiss the Brussels proposal. I think it is important to remember what regulation can lead to for Sweden. We have no detailed legislation on unfair trading practices in Sweden. But that does not mean that we are not dealing with unfair trading practices. We have contract law, and we have plenty of legislation on unfair marketing and financial crime. You must not cheat with EU funds and so on. Then putting onions on salmon in the form of new legislation on something that we are already doing fairly well will only be extra bureaucracy and hassle. I would like to ask the Social Democrats and the Green Party, who want this harmonisation legislation from Brussels: what is it that is not working in Sweden today and that we cannot solve ourselves? Why should we have new charges from Brussels? I believe that the Social Democrats and environmentalists are obliged to give an adequate answer to this question. With this, I would like to take this opportunity to call for the committee's proposal to be rejected by the European Union.
i-8384a545c818b405-40	Mr President, I would like to Expectations have been great for this debate – the debate when we will finally be able to debate the government's proposal for a new law on animal welfare. The tone has been high from the government parties, in fact since 2003 when the investigation into a new animal welfare law came. Both the Social Democrats and the Green Party said that the bill would come directly when they joined the government in 2014. But there was no bill, and we waited, we waited and we waited. A number of questions have been asked in this House to the minister responsible about what is happening to the bill. The Minister has replied to the questions that it has been prepared in the Government Office. So finally came the bill now in the spring of 2018. Three and a half years it has taken the government to deliver a bill to the Riksdag. It is clear that expectations have been sky-high on the bill. We have expected a well-prepared new legislative proposal that could be put in place after all the questions raised by the investigation. But guess if we're disappointed now! Here we are today debating the new animal welfare legislation and the animal-related issues of the general period of exercise. Of the very grand plans of the government, it was not much more than a tummetot. It is because all the tricky issues that we were waiting for the government to resolve have not been resolved. The Government leaves these questions unanswered in its proposal and refers to further investigations. The government has thus had three and a half years to investigate the issues and come to us with a bill that we in the Riksdag can take a position on. One might wonder what the government has actually done during this time, and I would have liked to have put that question to the Minister for Rural Affairs today. But he's not here. I understand that the Minister for Rural Development is instead on a social democratic tour of the hinterland of Norrland and is running an election campaign. It says a little about how the government chooses to prioritise animal welfare legislation in the future. We are therefore standing here today to debate a rather unfinished bill – a bill that says that the government will continue to work on the issues. This is a new order in the Swedish Parliament. The government usually comes here with proposals that we in the Riksdag should take a position on and make laws on. But now the government will instead come here and want some form of confirmation and mandate from the Riksdag to investigate the issues further. I am very sorry to have to say this, but this is not good enough for a government that will lead Sweden forward. Sweden's farmers, owners of animals and not least the animals themselves deserve better and clearer rules of the game to be able to follow in the long term. The Moderates and the Alliance do not demand rejection of the bill, but we are critical because we have expected more of the government's proposals than they have delivered so far. The same was true of the food strategy and, most recently, of the rural programme: many fine words but very little concrete. It's boring, because Sweden can do more, and Sweden needs more. We in the Alliance have written a follow-up motion for the bill, where we explain our focus for good animal welfare. It should be a modern animal protection based on facts and proven experience, an animal welfare that is for the benefit of the animals and not to win voters, an animal welfare that is not only good for the animals but also for the keepers who are to relate to the laws and rules that we create. In our Sweden, it should be easy to do the right thing. Mr President, I would like to I will mention a few things that are important to us with modern animal welfare legislation. Legislation needs to be targeted and not managed in detail by the Riksdag. We are not experts or researchers; we are elected representatives of the people. For the best interests of animals, the expertise should therefore be handed over to the experts, and they are present in the industry working with the animals on a daily basis and at the responsible authorities that decide on the details. Parliament is a slow institution, and it should be in order for the legislation to be properly worked out and long-term. We shall have sustainable legislation in Sweden. But for the benefit of the animals, it is good that it is going quite quickly if you need to change the rules, and then it should be done by the experts at the authority. Modern animal protection must also be in line with modern agriculture and growing food production. We Moderates see that the whole country has a unique development force, growth potential and employment opportunities that need to be developed. We can also contribute to sustainable economic, social and environmental growth. Industry in soil, soil, forest and water can very much help in this but also needs an appropriate animal welfare law that makes them competitive in a global market. Extreme animal welfare laws in Sweden force keepers to close down their activities, and instead of protecting animals, we export our problems and have poorer animal husbandry around Europe and the world. We want to encourage keepers in Sweden to do the right thing and therefore think that animal welfare should be more closely linked to results rather than measures. The whole purpose of a modern animal welfare law is for animals to feel good and live healthy. A good example of this is the Swedish Board of Agriculture's modernised rules for grazing requirements, which increase flexibility. Swedish animal husbandry is fantastic. We have healthy and healthy animals in Sweden. We have a minimal use of antibiotics. It is used for sick animals and not for healthy animals, just as it should be. Here we differ significantly from other countries around the world, not least in the EU where the use of antibiotics is still far too high and is used as compensation for good animal welfare. The use of antibiotics in the world is a much greater problem than we probably understand, and it is therefore important that the government continues to push the issue in the EU in a tough way. The exceptions must never become the rule as it has been so far within the European Union. A stable and predictable legislation is needed to ensure the long-term sustainability of Swedish animal husbandry. Too abrupt throws often lead to large conversion costs for both companies and private individuals. Decisions on regulatory change and new rules should be taken with the support of research and proven experience. The government should have ensured in its proposal that this is happening, but unfortunately many questions remain unanswered, resulting in a great deal of uncertainty for all the people and companies that keep animals in one way or another out there. The government is showing an inability to come up with legislative proposals and, instead, new issues and uncertainty for the future are emerging, and this is affecting animals. Investments that had to be made and planning for the future must now wait. Activities stop, and uncertainty about the future is great. Our animals and our keepers deserve better, and they will be better off with a new, alliance-led government in the autumn. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1 on the effective protection of animals.
i-8384a545c818b405-58	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has one of the world's most extensive animal welfare laws and also many extremely talented animal breeders. Our legislation on animal welfare is unique and goes much further than the other major food producing, competing countries. Good animal care is achieved in most cases because the farmer strives for the animals to grow and feel good. Good animal health, growth and production are closely linked. We in Sweden have healthy animals and low antibiotic use, which gives good reason to preserve and develop agriculture. The current trend, however, leads to a continuous decline in Swedish agricultural production, which automatically means increased imports of food from countries with lower ambitions in the field of environment and agriculture. A prerequisite for a diverse cultural landscape and much of our biodiversity is a viable agriculture. Open and living landscapes cannot be legislated – they only exist if it is profitable to farm and keep animals. It was in 1988 that Sweden received the current animal welfare legislation. It was internationally pioneering and is still something we have reason to be proud of. The basis of the legislation is that animals have rights. It is especially important to emphasise the paragraph that all animals should have the right to natural behaviour. It's a very nice paragraph. On the other hand, one can sometimes question whether that really is how it works all the time. Mr President, I would like to A lot has happened over these 30 years. In 2011, a study came up with proposals for a new animal welfare legislation. It was long-winded by the alliance government, and we never saw any legislative proposal during their time in power. Then we got a change of government, and the new government has made recurring promises that the new bill will come in the autumn, then in the spring, then in the autumn and then in the spring – so it has sounded. It has been promised in principle every autumn and every spring, but now it was finally delivered. It is of course gratifying, but it is also regrettable that the proposal is not quite finished but that a number of assignments are now being sent for new investigations. Several questions are unanswered, and they are being pushed into the future. Unfortunately, it has been more the rule than the exception for this government to put forward fuzzy and unconcrete proposals and put difficult questions on the future. That is not how Sweden should be ruled. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the review of Swedish animal welfare legislation. Animal health should be in focus, while the legislation needs to be adapted to the current situation and its conditions. We welcome the fact that the proposal for a new animal welfare legislation is taking steps to make the legislation more targeted and less detailed. As I said, however, it is regrettable that the work has not been completed. We also welcome the introduction of requirements in the Animal Holders' Skills Act. The bill also states that animals should be kept loose. It is important that this work continues. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, we should be open about the fact that there are target conflicts in this area and that agriculture is not always as small-scale as many would like. In an ideal world, all animals would go out and live in groups of the right size, and there would be no need to strike a balance between animal welfare and competitiveness. Actually, it's not like that now. Strengthening animal welfare in agriculture can often have the direct consequence that more animals are reared in other countries with significantly worse animal welfare and with the consequence that it affects Swedish growth, Swedish jobs and Swedish food supply. For this reason, it would be desirable to address this conflict more clearly. We would like to see cost-benefit analyses carried out in the field of animal welfare on precisely how to make as much use as possible in the area of animal welfare at the least possible additional cost to the industry. For this reason, we are in favour of reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Animals in the entertainment industry in general and in circuses in particular are an issue that the Swedish Democrats have raised in the animal welfare debates in this House. A good basis for evaluation of the welfare of animals is whether they have an outlet for their natural needs and behaviour. The existence of circus animals, in the vast majority of cases, imposes major restrictions on its possibilities. An important part of good and credible animal welfare is to be careful to use animals for pleasure. We believe that circuses should be subject to a permit requirement, whereby only circus owners who meet certain essential requirements are granted permission to keep animals at all. In the event of repeated breaches of the regulatory framework, such a permit shall be permanently suspended. In addition, the inspections carried out today following the order of the circus owners themselves should be supplemented by unannounced inspections, both of transport and of stationary storage sites. In this way, it becomes more urgent for circus owners to ensure a continuous good life for their animals even during periods when the animals are not used in performances. When it comes to non-domestic animals, we share the opinion of the Animal Protection Investigation that these are not suitable for circus activities. We therefore believe that their use should be phased out. We welcome the fact that it is proposed in the bill that elephants and sea lions should no longer be held in circus activities. On the other hand, we see a risk of only proposing a ban on two more species because in future it could open up the possibility of using other non-domestic animals in circus activities. There are also bordering problems in the area of what are non-domestic animals. For this reason, it would be better to introduce a so-called positive list of animals that should be allowed to run in circuses. All other animals are then banned automatically. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the most popular pets of the Swedish people – the cat. There are about 1.3 million cats in Sweden. Every fifth household has a cat as a family member, and if you don't have a cat at home, you probably have a cat in your Facebook feed. Pictures of cute cats are perhaps what social media is largely about. Because the cat is an incredibly popular pet, it is also an animal that too often does not get the love and care it deserves. Most cat owners are responsible, but it is not possible to get away from the fact that the cat is sometimes treated as a low-value, wear-and-slip animal. This may not be surprising, as the purchase price of a cat is relatively low. It is high time we settled this behaviour. The status of the cat must be raised. In future, it should be as obvious that you do not abandon or refrain from registering your cat as you do not do it with your dog. It should also become more obvious to insure your cat, as the vast majority of dog owners do with their animals. A mandatory identification mark for cats should therefore be included in the legislation. It is unfortunate that the government does not go directly ahead with the proposals of the Animal Protection Investigation. Labelling would reduce the problems of abandoned cats, while helping to find cats more easily at home. In addition, the control of which animals are introduced into Sweden would be strengthened. Legislation on the identification of cats can also help to raise the status of cats in society. This can also be done by the proposed legislation prohibiting the abandonment of animals. There should also be no major practical obstacles to the introduction of a register of cats, given the existence of a functional register of dogs. True, the number of cats is considerably higher than that of the dogs. But I don't see it at all problematic to pass on the costs to the cat owners. It may be positive that the cost of owning cats increases, as it would increase the status of cats. For this reason, we are in favour of reservation 14. We have many more reservations in the report. However, we will not ask for more than these. As I have said before, it is positive that we are now getting a new animal welfare law. However, much work remains to be done. Perhaps the most interesting thing is how the legislation will be implemented. We will follow this closely. We have a positive starting point in the fact that animal welfare organisations as well as farmers' associations are generally in favour of legislation. But many are concerned about how the implementation will work. This is an issue that we in Parliament must follow closely in the next few years.
i-8384a545c818b405-78	Mr President, I would like to I thought in this debate that I should like to focus mainly on two points which I consider to be essential. It is the question of legal certainty and the need to make reality of what everyone is talking about, namely regulatory simplification in order to increase the competitiveness and profitability of industries that have animals, such as Swedish agriculture. I am of course behind all reservations that have a center stamp on them, but I choose for time winning to claim bifa ll only to reservation 18. Mr President, I would like to A government has a number of tasks. One of the most important and important is to present policies that this House, Parliament, can then take a position on and decide on. However, as previous speakers have said, it is difficult to find sharp proposals in the bill that the government has given up in this context. Very important and very many areas are being bypassed or instead placed in new investigations that will be presented during the next term of office. It gives the impression that we have a government in this country that has difficulty in making decisions, but which probably also finds it difficult to reach agreement, especially on these kinds of issues. Why am I saying this? Yes, I do so in view of the fact that an investigation was presented as early as 2011, as has also been said earlier in the debate. It was then referred. For a fairly long period of time, organisations and operators had the opportunity to think about the investigation proposal. There was an incredible amount of input from organisations, operators, institutions and the like. Since then, nothing has happened. It presents – I may express myself a little disrespectful, but still – an empty piece of paper and says that things that are important should be further investigated. The present government has, therefore, for a whole term of office, the one we are now in, done nothing to change the reality that we have in our country in this area. Mr President, I would like to As far as the issues I intend to raise in the debate are concerned, I note that, apart from taxes and levies, there is more than often talk about when we talk about the profitability and competitiveness of the Swedish agricultural industry. It is the need to break down and change rules and to simplify for operators. Here they had the chance to make a reality of what all political parties, all business organisations, I would say all operators, are talking about – to simplify the rules. Exercises have presented a number of proposals that could easily have been incorporated into the bill and made a reality. There are some examples in reservation 13, which I do not therefore support. Nevertheless, I put the question to those who will defend this bill, i.e. representatives of the government parties – the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. Why choose to ignore what everyone is asking for? The second thing that I think is on the verge of sin and shame is that the question of the rule of law is not addressed in this context. I know that quite a lot of operators have a feeling of anxiety in their stomachs almost every day because they do not feel secure about the supervision that is known to exist and should exist. It is the supervisory authority that also imposes the penalty that is perceived as a ban on animals. A lot of people who are in the supervisory sector also have a little pain in their stomach. There is no one to try what they propose. In other contexts, a supervisory authority's position is usually tried in court. That is not the case in this case. That is why, Mr President, I strongly call for the approval of Amendment No 18. I hope that Parliament will take a position on this particularly important issue for many people.
i-8384a545c818b405-88	Mr President, I would like to We are now faced with taking what could have been one of the most important decisions of the parliamentary term, namely the introduction of a new law on animal welfare. As has been stated, our current animal welfare law of 1988 is very much in need of modernisation and improvement. A study was carried out seven years ago on a new animal welfare law. Åsa Coenraads from the Moderates has illustrated how the current government has tied itself up in order not to present an adequate proposal. In addition, Åsa Coenraads, the previous bourgeois government did not deliver much either. There is something about governments and the protection of animals that I think chafes a little. You are simply afraid of making decisions, and so is this proposal. That leaves much to be desired. It is good that there is now a new wording in the Animal Welfare Act that the animals should be managed in a good animal environment and that their welfare should be promoted, that the animals should be able to exercise behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and that behavioural disorders should be prevented. These are good and important words that all of us who are fighting for animal rights will be able to use. But, as I said, it is not possible to get away from the fact that the proposal does not come quite to the finish. There are many areas where concrete proposals are not entirely made, and I will touch on that here. I would like to start with what is usually called the animals of agriculture, namely the animals that exist in the food industry and how they should be reared and treated. Each year 2 1⁄2 million gr of ice and half a million cows are slaughtered. 80 million chickens are reared, transported and slaughtered under factory conditions. Here we usually say that we in Sweden have such good animal welfare and that it is much better in Sweden. But when it comes to farm animals, it is basically the same large-scale breeding here in Sweden as it is on the continent. We use considerably less antibiotics, and that is a good thing. We in the Left Party had hoped that this proposal for a new law on animal welfare would enable all animals in agriculture to behave naturally and to go outdoors. They should avoid binding and fixation, i.e. that the animals are kept fixed in a small cage or box. This government does not, and it is a major rejection of this proposal. Of course, it is good that the government says that in the future sea lions and elephants should not be held in circuses in Sweden, but all other animals may be there and forced to perform unnatural behaviors in order for people to be entertained. We Swedes are so insightful today that we understand that it is perfectly possible to go to the circus without animals being tormented there. Here we in the Left Party would have liked to see a clear and general ban on wildlife in the circus. We believe that such a ban could most easily be drawn up by means of a so-called positive list of animals to be present in the circus at all. In the case of a few domesticated animals, a public display may be okay, such as dogs jumping over obstacles or rabbits crawling through passageways. But if so, these animals would be placed on a positive list. Then you could remove all wild animals from the circus in Sweden. Positive lists have been introduced in Belgium and the Netherlands, for example. Several other countries – Finland, Luxembourg and Estonia – are in the process of introducing so-called positive lists to remove wild animals from circuses. Mr President, I would like to It is also a major shortcoming that the government does not present the proposal put forward by the Animal Protection Act investigation, namely the labelling and registration of cats. Today thousands of cats are being fertilized. They disappear, and no one knows who the owner is. The authorities must devote considerable resources to catching cats that are then killed or that are exemplaryly cared for by so-called cathouses. But cats' homes are often run with minimal resources on a purely non-profit basis. In this respect, compulsory labelling and registration of cats financed by the owners of cats could be the solution to the problem. That is exactly what the previous Animal Protection Committee proposed. Why, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, are you not putting forward the proposal? It makes no sense to me. All of us who participate in this debate have recently received a letter from Sweden's collective animal rights and animal welfare movements as well as from a number of consumer organisations. Animal Rights and Animal Protection in Sweden urge us to make sharp decisions that strengthen animal welfare in Sweden. These organisations, for example, propose the introduction of a positive list so that wild animals are removed from the circus. I couldn't agree more. The organisations representing the animals propose that binding, fixation and other unnatural behaviour in the rearing of farm animals should be prohibited. I totally agree. Organisations propose mandatory identification and registration of cats. I totally agree. It is also proposed that so-called pot - law tests should be banned, as they are very painful. I totally agree. The question is why the government does not put forward these proposals. I am afraid that this government, like the previous bourgeois government in all these long years, has listened unilaterally to the input of industry and industry in this regard and that we do not dare to stand on the side of animals and give us a modern animal welfare law that takes into account the rights of animals. Mr President, I would like to There is another issue that has not yet been discussed in this debate, and it is the question of the 1.2 million minks in the Swedish fur industry. We in the Left Party believe that fur farming for the production of furs and fur parts is an old-fashioned and completely out-of-date activity which is not at all on the part of the animals and should be completely discontinued. We had such a proposal in 2006, as the former Red-Green Government put forward. Unfortunately, that proposal was torn up by the latter bourgeois government. This is an incredibly important issue, because more than 1 million minks are born in the fur industry. They're raised in minimal net cages. There are two three minks in each cage. They have absolutely no possibility of natural behavior. Research report after research report after inspections by our authorities clearly points out that animals in the fur industry are not able to behave naturally. For example, they suffer from so-called stereotyped behaviour. I think it is positive that more and more countries in the world understand that this is an activity that should be placed on the waste heap of history. The Netherlands, the UK, Austria, Croatia and a large number of other Balkan countries have banned the fur industry. Germany and Switzerland have put in place strict functional requirements requiring animals to have the right to swim. We in Sweden had earlier breeding of foxes, but we stopped it. I wonder, and I ask the question to all parties here – the bourgeois, the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Green Party: What fundamentally separates a fox's needs in the fur industry from a minks? Both have the same need to be able to climb, hunt and move over large areas and in the case of mink be able to swim in water. The government is now proposing that this issue should only be further investigated. It does not present a concrete proposal that could stop the fur industry in Sweden. We in the Left Party want to do that. That is why, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 25, which is about a stop to the mink industry in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I see I'm running over time, but this is an important issue. Animals are sentient individuals, and they deserve respect. I believe that we all agree on this, as well as on the fact that animals have the right to carry out their natural behaviour and to avoid suffering. As in all matters, it is about making choices in politics. On the one hand, there are those who want to continue to earn millions of dollars by rearing minks in the fur industry and breeding, transporting and slaughter animals in the animal industry, or by keeping animals in the circus and making a lot of money from it. On the other hand, there are the organisations representing animals. They say that we legislators must do something for the animals and stand up for the animals. In this proposal, I think it is quite clear that the industry's conditions are far too heavy in that balance sheet. We need a new, modern animal welfare law that stands on the side of animals. All the proposals that we in the Left Party have in our motion are proposals that go that way. For time winning, I only call for reservation 25, but I naturally support all the Left Party reservations.
i-8384a545c818b405-110	Mr President, I would like to I can start by agreeing with Jens Holm that the animals deserve respect. I think that, as Jens Holm also said, we agree on that. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse Amendment No 21. It is about increased international cooperation against the over-use of antibiotics in food production, which we in the Liberals think is an important issue. But, of course, we are behind all the reservations that we are in – there are another seven, I think. It has been stated that there are shortcomings in this legislation and that it is not complete. I have listened to my alliance colleagues Åsa Coenraads and Eskil Erlandsson and agree with what they say. But to be a little kind, I can say that basically we in the Liberals still think it is a good thing that we have come this far and put a new animal welfare law on Parliament's table, although it has major shortcomings and needs to be further worked on. The high level of Swedish animal welfare is something we should be proud of. But it is not something that can be taken for granted, but it requires long-term work and good legislation. New chapters on animal welfare legislation will be written in Sweden. What I think is important and that the alliance parties have raised in a joint reservation is that the legislation should be clear and effective and that we should move from detailed management to goal management. Although this is already happening to some extent, it is important that we emphasise it. So it is not a question of reducing animal welfare but of doing so effectively. We in the Liberals are convinced that it is possible to combine. There is no contradiction between competitiveness and good animal welfare, but rather the opposite. They must be able to go hand in hand. Market-wise, the strong animal protection has also become a great Swedish added value in food production. So it is not something we can see as a black about the foot in that way; rather, it is a plus at the edge. Mr President, I would like to We have discussed shortcomings here, but after all we will be voting in favour of the bill. After all, there is no demand for rejection in this, but the problem is that it is incomplete. The investigation that Eva Eriksson did came back in 2011, so I can see that it has been a long process. As has been said here, there is a little, finally! 中 in this. Then it is a pity that we have not come to an end on certain issues. We will still see this as some sort of summation of where we stand today, but there are other things to do. After all, it is not that we have a fundamental disagreement as to where we want to go. The proper management and treatment of animals is a matter of course, and as has been stated here, respect for animals must be respected. We shall have an animal welfare law that is sharp and clear. It is a prerequisite for being able to feel secure in the activity you have. Another important thing is that control is effective and the same throughout Sweden. Since much of this is linked to EU legislation and regulations, it is also important, not least from a competition point of view, that we ensure that compliance with the EU acquis is the same throughout the EU so that there are no shortcomings – it is believed that it is being followed up, and that it becomes a competitive advantage. Here it is important that there are relevant sanctions so that those who violate the rules are actually punished for it. I shall, Mr President, place some emphasis on the use of antibiotics. It is very strongly linked to how to manage your animals and what animal welfare there is. It has turned out that Sweden is almost the best in Europe. Iceland and Norway have even better figures, and I suppose that has its explanations. Nevertheless, this shows that work on animal husbandry in a knowledge-oriented way is producing results. The Swedish keepers should of course have a great credit for having been involved in developing this. Legislation is not always the only blessing, but it also requires that those who work with it have a great deal of expertise about what they are doing. Animal transport is also included here, as is the EU acquis. In this matter we really need to comply with the regulations, and I think we have a lot to work with. As far as animal testing is concerned, they are by no means an end in themselves. They should, of course, be limited very hard to those times when there is absolutely no other way to do so. Research resources are needed here to develop methods to work in other ways. Mr President, I would like to I was going to mention international cooperation on excessive antibiotic use. We can see that antibiotic resistance is probably one of the most frightening phenomena we have and may be under discussion. Someone mentioned that perhaps you are not even aware of how frightening this is and what will happen if nothing is done in this area. We will have infectious diseases and epidemics that we cannot control at all. What we have seen so far may be a little vest fan compared to what might happen. This is one of the truly great threats. In Sweden, however, we have been able to show that with good animal husbandry the use of antibiotics can be kept to a minimum. I think it was Åsa Coenraads who said that we do not treat healthy animals but sick animals. That's the way you have to go. There is a great deal of work that we need to do internationally to make this the norm, because this is a global problem. Sweden has a good role in the WHO, the World Health Organisation, where we work on this. We work in the EU. I would also like to mention that there is a Nordic cooperation on this. In 2017, the Nordic Council presented a White Paper with twelve concrete proposals on how to work together in the Nordic countries against antibiotic resistance. These include public education and incentives to develop new antibiotics. One of the real stumbling blocks is that the antibiotics we have are running out and soon cannot be used effectively. Better diagnostics are needed so that antibiotics are not applied unnecessarily; this applies to both animals and humans. Animals account for two thirds of antibiotic use, so this is an important factor. There is usually talk of one health in this context. Animal welfare is therefore very important. Although we have good results in Sweden, we have a lot to learn from the other Nordic countries. In Norway, for example, there is a kind of vaccination programme that we do not have in Sweden in the same way. I can only say that the Nordic Council of Ministers has been in favour of continuing this cooperation. With regard to a global problem, international cooperation is, of course, a prerequisite for solving it.
i-8384a545c818b405-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Lars Tysklind about the common reservation that you bourgeois parties have, namely reservation 1 which concerns an appropriate animal welfare law. It may sound sympathetic to target control rather than to detail control. No one thinks that we should go into too much detail when we issue laws, because we have authorities that can concretise such things. But we heard for example Moderaten Åsa Coenraads, who in her post referred to the grazing requirement for dairy animals as a concrete example in the context. In any case, I think it is very important that we have requirements for outdoor grazing for dairy cows so that cows can go outdoors and graze. Does Lars Tysklind not think that this is an important requirement to make? We also have problems connecting animals. In practice, they are tied to a stall all the time when they are indoors. We have problems with the fixation of pigs that are trapped in cramped boxes and cannot move naturally. I think it is important for us to tell you what applies: that binding and fixation should not be allowed. With your reservation, it is not possible to do this, so I would like to know how the Liberals view it.
i-8384a545c818b405-132	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, a matter of principle how to design the legislation and whether to regulate it in detail. When it comes to grazing, for example, we are definitely in favour of being able to set the requirement for animals to be kept out. This belongs to natural behavior, if nothing else. However, when it comes to setting precise dates and such things in legislation, we think that the development that has been, where the Swedish Board of Agriculture has become flexible in this regard, is good. I do not even think that Jens Holm and the Left Party think that this has made the situation of animals worse. Different methods can be used to achieve the same goal. This is true of the other examples mentioned by Jens Holm. You can still set a goal. As someone said, the portal clause is very good. It was already earlier that it is the natural behavior that lies at the root. The legislation sets the targets, and the authorities provide the necessary rules to achieve the objectives. I think that is a reasonable starting point in this context.
i-8384a545c818b405-135	Mr President, I would like to I think that it is essentially a subjective question what is the natural behaviour of an animal and what is good animal welfare. If legislation is lifted at an even more abstract level, it will obviously be more difficult for us to regulate for the benefit of animals. I do not think the more flexible grazing requirements have been to the advantage of cows. On the contrary, we see the problem that it is now actually possible to join with this requirement. If I put the question like this, Lars Tysklind : You still have the reservation about an appropriate animal welfare law. Most of the laws we decide on here are targeted framework laws. Very rarely do we go into precise details. It would therefore be interesting to know what details of the Animal Welfare Act you really want to remove and do not think belong in the proposal. I think we can expect an answer to that, because you have a specific reservation on this.
i-8384a545c818b405-137	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to disappoint Jens Holm a little – I can't explain the exact analysis. That is the direction that we support. I think the grazing requirement is perhaps the clearest example of this. Nor do I think it should be forgotten, as I mentioned in my speech, that our keepers and farmers who have farmed animals also, of course, see advantages in having good animal welfare, not least in order to keep down the use of antibiotics. It is not just a question of the legislation being precise in order for it to be a good result. In general, it is about target management, just as with many other types of legislation in Sweden: What do we want to achieve? Here we want to ensure that the animals have the opportunity for natural behaviour and that they are able to prevent behavioural disturbances. Based on this, the authorities are allowed to work on the necessary regulations to achieve this.
i-8384a545c818b405-139	Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, it is important that Swedish animal husbandry is characterised by high animal welfare ambitions. Good management and good hygiene in animal husbandry provide better animal welfare and at the same time high food quality. Good animal welfare results in good animal health, as well as the need for action to treat animal diseases and injuries. The excessive use of antibiotics in animal husbandry in many parts of the world poses a major threat to both animals and humans on our planet. More and more bacteria are developing resistance to an increasing number of antibiotics. The consequence is that in the future we are in danger of seeing again a catastrophic situation in which tens of thousands of people die of infectious diseases which we can easily cure with antibiotics today. Many surgical procedures are also made impossible in practice due to the risk of infection. The resistant bacteria are now breathing the drug developers in the neck. Already today, at least 700 000 people are estimated to die each year because of resistant bacteria. As much as two thirds of all antibiotics worldwide are given to animals. The number in Sweden is one seventh. So it is on a completely different level. Sweden has been pressing for a long time to reduce the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry in the EU. The progress that has been made in the EU to tighten up the requirements for antibiotic use is gratifying. Several of the proposals that we Christian Democrats have made in our committee motions are now being met. This is very pleasing, but more still needs to be done at European level. At global level, the situation is still dark. The use of antibiotics continues to increase. It is estimated that by 2030 there has been a 67% increase at global level, which is disastrous. The biggest increase is expected in countries such as China, the United States, Brazil, India and Mexico. It is clear that new grips and new energy are needed to avoid human beings ending up in a situation where we cannot use antibiotics for the treatment of human infections. The Christian Democrats propose that negotiations be conducted immediately at the highest level with a view to agreeing national quotas for the amount of antibiotics given to animals within each country. These quotas need to have a steep phasing-out curve in contrast to the otherwise expected increase. The Christian Democrats also propose that an international scientific council, corresponding to the IPCC, be set up to provide the best possible scientific basis for what levels of antibiotic use are sustainable in order to keep the amount of resistant bacteria at an acceptable level. There is also a need for clear monitoring and compilation of statistics on the use of antibiotics at global level. Mr President, I would like to In an international comparison, Sweden has good animal welfare legislation. This is of course good but at the same time means that livestock farmers in Sweden have higher costs than competitors in other countries. Farmers in some countries can sell their products at a lower price even here in Sweden as a result of lower animal welfare requirements. For Swedish farmers not to be disadvantaged, it is therefore important that animal welfare legislation is harmonised within the EU by strengthening EU requirements. The aim must be that Swedish animal welfare rules should serve as a guide for work within the EU. At the same time, it is important that existing rules are also complied with. As early as 2001, 17 years ago, routine cutting of pigs' tails was banned in the EU. But what about today? Yes, it goes on. The European Commission notes that the ban is not being complied with. Here in Sweden, however, our pigs can still knock knuckles on their tail. But the ban must therefore be followed up and complied with. The rules exist, but they are not used. Mr President, I would like to The long and often painful transport of animals within the EU is unacceptable. In order to reduce transport and transport times, the EU needs to promote nearby or mobile small-scale slaughterhouses. Different types of EU support should be used for investments to improve animal welfare. By facilitating the creation of mobile and farm-by-farm slaughterhouses, the need for long-distance transport can be reduced. Mr President, I would like to Man has a responsibility to protect other living beings. As we heard earlier, animals deserve respect. There is also an animal science that we must follow and develop. Unnecessary suffering should not occur. However, in the absence of better alternatives, animal testing can be accepted in some individual cases in order to meet legitimate needs. The development of alternatives to animal testing is progressing. Data simulation programs and cell cultures can completely or partially replace animal experiments in many situations, which is gratifying. In higher education in Sweden there are still experiments on animals, by routine or because the teacher responsible for the course may not have sufficient knowledge of alternatives to animal experiments. We believe that all students on the courses where animal testing is traditionally carried out should receive basic training on the alternative methods that can be used. In these words, Mr President, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 22, which deals precisely with measures against the use of global antibiotics. Of course, we support all our other reservations as well, but for time-winning I only ask for this.
i-8384a545c818b405-154	Mr President, I would like to I think it's nice that Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell admits that the animals deserve respect and that they are sentient individuals. Therefore, I would like to ask the Christian Democrats: Do not the 1.2 million minks in Sweden deserve respect? They live their lives under completely miserable conditions in minimal net cages that do not allow their natural behavior. In the report after report, our inspecting authorities have found that this is not an activity that meets the requirements that can reasonably be imposed on livestock farming. Don't these animals deserve respect? Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell, why do you in the Christian Democrats want to once again evaluate this activity instead of making demands so that we can stop it?
i-8384a545c818b405-156	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned this earlier with tail-tuning, for example. There are many different parts on which we have views and which we feel are not being complied with. Jens Holm addresses problems with the space, tight cages and so on when it comes to minks. Of course, all animals deserve respect, and as I said before, there is an animal science that we must follow. We need to discuss and develop our approach, and that is why we need to follow up and evaluate and see how to improve also for minks. However, we do not have any strong proposals in this area today.
i-8384a545c818b405-159	Mr President, I would like to Now there is a sharp proposal from us in the Left Party, where we say that minks should have the right to move naturally, the right to hunt, the right to climb and the right to water to swim in. I would like to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell which of the functional requirements we put forward – water to swim in and the opportunity to climb, move freely and hunt – which the Christian Democrats do not think the minks deserve.
i-8384a545c818b405-161	Mr President, I would like to None of the demands raised by Jens Holm are met today, but these are demands that you have put forward. I see that we can discuss in dialogue how we can improve this in the long term. You have certain reservations, and we have other reservations. We do not have the same requirements today as you do, but we have other requirements that you do not support. The demands therefore differ between parties, and in this area we have made no reservation. That is absolutely correct.
i-8384a545c818b405-163	Mr President, I would like to We are debating a new animal welfare law, report 2017/ 18:MJU24. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. From the opening remarks, I can see that it is very clear that the government has come to the right place, because both the Alliance, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party have very different claims. We are also discussing balance on the table, and I think we are now getting that with the heavy bill for a new animal welfare law. This is something that involves the House and the Members of Parliament very much. There are 3 consecutive motions with 22 motions and 48 motions with 96 motions from the general exercise time. It keeps the trend pretty good. Like what Mr Erlandsson said, it can also be said that this is a cross-block work. Animal welfare and Swedish legislation have long traditions. Eskil appointed Eva Eriksson's investigation in 2009, which was welcome and requested because the legislation was already out of date. After two years Eva Eriksson delivered a heavy investigation: 1 100 pages and two parts. It contains many parts and is not the most easy-to-read one, and as Eskil was into, there were a lot of heavy and scattered referral requests from many different directions. Initially, it can be said that the government proposal has generally been received very well by animal welfare organisations and user organisations. It also shows that there is a balance in the proposed proposal. Much has happened since 1988, when the then Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson handed over the new animal welfare legislation to Astrid Lindgren on her 80th birthday. It was a big day in itself, and today is a big day when we are debating it. The positions of what is acceptable animal husbandry have been moved forward considerably, and the law has been patched and fixed after its creation. New regulations have arrived. We have, not least, entered the European Union, which, of course, has also affected this policy area too. Now we are taking a holistic approach and handing over a coherent proposal for a new, updated and modernised law that brings together all the most basic provisions. Our proposal is based mainly on Eva Eriksson's heavy animal welfare investigation of over 1 100 pages and will contain all the provisions that are fundamental to good animal welfare. The law is intended to be supplemented in the same way as today by more concrete requirements in the Animal Welfare Regulation and regulations issued by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It is stated in an introductory provision that the law aims to ensure good animal welfare and to promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. Natural behaviour is something that has become the cornerstone of Swedish animal welfare legislation. The new law states that natural behaviour means that animals should be able to carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and which are important for their well-being. There is also a new requirement, which I think is a great transfer of positions, which is about preventing behavioral disorders. It should not be tolerated. The law also introduces an explicit requirement for the person in charge of animals to have sufficient competence to meet the needs of the animals. It is also quite central. However, politics does not give direct pointers about education, but it is about the relevant skills to care for the animals. While we also attach great importance to ensuring a high level of animal welfare, it has been important for the S-led government to boost food production and create a competitive food chain, where food production in Sweden is increasing while maintaining a high level of animal welfare and meeting relevant national environmental objectives. This is also part of why it may have taken a little longer. The government's priority was the food strategy, where there were several elements that also affect this legislation. In the proposal, the government has also been very careful to review the impact on farmers and other livestock farms, and we believe that our proposal should not lead to any effects that hamper the competitiveness of Swedish livestock production. In fact, Swedish legislation is the basis for competitive livestock production. It is the good and long-developed animal welfare in Sweden that creates sustainable competitiveness. The government is also taking new initiatives in other areas and has recently proposed origin labelling in restaurants, something that is very important for the consumer to be able to choose his meat, his fish, his chickens and so on and know that they have lived, bred and slaughtered under good conditions and a good animal welfare. We Social Democrats believe it is of the utmost importance that the results of available scientific research and proven experience from animal husbandry are clearly taken into account in animal welfare work. The Government therefore decided on the basis of the Food Strategy to commission the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, to establish a Scientific Council for Animal Welfare, which connects directly to this. It was very important, and that is why it was announced and launched in connection with the food strategy. That work is now in full swing and is something we will follow. It will also provide basic good basis for, among other things, the Swedish Board of Agriculture to get a more updated picture of current research. It's important. To come and say that nothing happens is therefore, I think, nonsense at a high level. Mr President, I would like to Cats are a big question. I think we've all received e-mails and handwritten letters about the sight of the cat. The legislation we are now putting forward places greater demands on the owner of the cat. The cat has come to be both loved and actually hated. In Sweden there are about 11⁄2 million cats, and it is our most popular pet. At the same time, estimates show that we have about 100,000 homeless cats in the country. It is made clear in the legislation that feral animals of domestic species suffering must be taken care of and killed by the control authorities. This is especially true for cats. It also introduces a clear ban on abandoning animals, mainly cats, kept by humans. This means that all keepers and cat owners actually get to tighten up and tighten up their surveillance over their cat. You are responsible for your cat; it is not okay for your cat to run in the wrong sandboxes at the neighbor's. It does not create a good atmosphere, and it is not acceptable animal husbandry. We also want to investigate the issue of the labelling and registration of cats. Among other Jens Holm has pointed out that this should already have been done. It is clear that it should have been done already, but such a register costs money. Someone's gonna stand for it. There are non-profit organisations working with this, and the government wants to investigate whether these non-profit organisations can be strengthened in their work. Is that a good way to go? Since the union was founded in 1955, Sverak has worked in various ways to raise the status of cats in society. We share the view that their work on ID marking is a good way. There are also other organisations working on this. Animal welfare Sweden has recently launched a cat driving licence, and this can be important to strengthen. Another important issue is the total ban on suffering during training. Previously, this has been formulated as a matter of suffering during competitions and for participation in competitions, but we extend it to training. There have been concerns that this would mean, for example, that hunting dogs could not be trained. Wild animals are not covered by this proposal. Instead, wild animals and hunting are covered by the Hunting Act, which is why the Animal Welfare Bill does not address this very issue. A ban on the doping of animals trained for or participating in tests is introduced. It also clarifies which animals can be trained for competition and which must not be subjected to doping, which is in order. Mr President, I would like to I will exceed my speaking time by 50%; I can say that myself. The new law has been revised as regards animal bans. This will mean that there is a possibility for those who have been banned to have a test of whether they can have a smaller herd or other types of animals. Some motions refer to the fact that a ban on animals is to be tried by the judiciary. We can do that today, but it would not be good for the industry either if it were to appear that politics is waiting and that we cannot take care of animals that are going bad. I think the exercisers here haven't thought about it yet. Above all, it is not good for livestock farmers to come up with very bad examples when waiting for legal redress in court. Animals that are in harm's way should be taken care of – point. That's our basic attitude. That is also why we are giving health care personnel, social services and LSS activities the opportunity to report serious and obvious animal welfare problems to the animal welfare control authorities or, in extreme cases, to the police. For us Social Democrats, it is important that legislation should apply to all animals. We should not have any special legislation, but this is a framework law. It is therefore important to look further at, for example, the production of fur animals. What has been achieved? What has Mink Health done? We have commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture to evaluate the mink industry in particular. We do not prohibit industries, but if necessary we steer up the industries and ensure that the relevant requirements are met. This is an important basic bolt. We see no difference in keeping pigs, sheep or minks; all animals should have good conditions. We are also introducing something that has been very popular. It is reported that a government decision will shortly be taken to include in the animal welfare regulation a ban on keeping elephants and sea lions in circuses. This is something that many athletes here in Parliament have been pushing through the years, and it is fun that we can now deliver it. We have announced that we will continue to investigate the labelling of cats, including how this relates to the new EU regulation on data protection. That's where the economy comes in, too. We will examine the consequences of imposing requirements to keep animals loose. We can also note that it is to be welcomed if the support schemes in the new agricultural policy, CAP, are more favourable to loose operation; that would be very good. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a pioneer country in terms of animal health, animal welfare and welfare. Our Social Democratic ambition is that we should continue to be so, and we are therefore very proud and happy that we can present today a proposal for a completely new animal welfare law. The current Animal Welfare Act has been in place for almost 30 years, and animal husbandry has developed in a positive direction since the law was introduced in 1988. The concept of what is an acceptable animal husbandry has been significantly moved forward, and since its creation the law has been amended and supplemented on several occasions. It is important that today we can both debate and decide on a new framework law. We are now taking new, decisive steps for good animal health in Sweden.
i-8384a545c818b405-204	Mr President, I would like to In the absence of the presence of the government in this debate – which I find strange in itself, given that it is a heavy law to be decided on in this context and in this room today – I have to ask Isak From, as a representative of the government party of the Social Democrats, two things. Firstly, we have agreed in this House on a food strategy in which we say that food production in Sweden should increase. The prerequisite for this to happen is that we are holding back on taxes and charges and that we are setting the rules. Why does the government not choose to take the chance in this context to simplify the rules, so that we get more farm animals in our pastures and pastures? This would result in both increased food production and increased biodiversity. Secondly, why are we not doing additional things about the legal certainty of animal-owners? We have a commercial ban, which is being tried in court. We have immediate action on certain offences in our society, such as the suspension of driving licences. It will be drawn immediately if the offence is serious, and it will then be tried in court if the offence was correct and correct. Why does the government choose to refrain from these two things, which are so important?
i-XgWzLvKcC3taTpxYie22ue	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eskil, for the questions. The conditions for food production, as I said in my speech, are that we have good animal health and good animal welfare. This is absolutely necessary. We have a higher cost. What we can compete with are good, high-quality products that consumers can rely on. It's actually very important. As I also said in my speech, this is a framework law. Eskil Erlandsson announced when he appointed this that it would be a framework law. We would not go into precise details, but it will come at the next stage in regulations from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. This is exactly what Eskil himself asked for. Or has something happened since 2009, when Eskil appointed the Animal Protection Investigation? Then we take an important step. We are, of course, opening the way for a more flexible interpretation of animal bans. You shouldn't have to get rid of the whole crew. If you have 80 animals and 20 of them are in a worse condition, you should be able to have a smaller herd or other types of animals. I think it would be very dangerous to go the way that Eskil wants us to wait and have long legal proceedings, because then livestock production in Sweden would suffer. We'd see horrible pictures on TV and newspapers of animals that get hurt. That is something that we absolutely cannot tolerate.
i-8384a545c818b405-216	Mr President, I would like to As far as the first question is concerned, I have to say that the government does not even announce a willingness to make changes in the area of regulation. Now even formal knowledge requirements are being introduced in order to possess certain types of animals. No changes are announced regarding authorisation requirements for certain types of animal husbandry and no requirements regarding the testing of buildings or equipment – requirements that were legitimate at one time but, as I see it, are no longer. They would facilitate increased food production in our country, which I know both the government's representative and I want. I am sorry about this. As far as legal certainty is concerned, it is borne out by a great many people that they do not feel that they have the legal certainty that they should have under the rule of law on these issues. I made a number of comparisons in my first post in this line shift, and I maintain them. If you want, you can combine this with immediateness in the event of serious infringements – and so it should be – with legal certainty in which someone independent determines who is right or wrong. Today, it is the supervisory authority that is the supervisor as well as prosecutors and judges. I don't think it's enough.
i-8384a545c818b405-220	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that for the individual keeper this is a difficult process. But something has actually happened, and the animal ban that is being imposed today applies after repeated cases of mismanagement. We are opening the way for a more flexible interpretation of this. It has been questioned whether it is actually reasonable. We don't think we should have long court proceedings on the care of animals. It would be detrimental to the industry, to consumer confidence and to animal production in Sweden. I think we fully agree that this proposal is a basis for viable agriculture. We introduce the relevant requirements for competence but without the exact requirement that you have attended a certain training course, but you may have learned by growing up and working on a farm. It may be examined on a case-by-case basis if you have the competence to complete the required applications and answer the relevant questions. We believe that this is a well-balanced basic requirement. We stand up for both animals and production. The proposed proposal is well balanced and responds to the needs of both.
i-8384a545c818b405-224	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I would have liked to have asked some questions to the Minister for Rural Development, but since he is not here today, Isak From, the representative of the Social Democrats, can answer my questions. The representative of the Social Democrats exceeded the speaking time by almost 50 per cent, and that is a little significant also for what the bill looks like. It is long and contains a lot of words. It is beautiful, nice and sounds good, but there are no concrete measures. My question to the government parties is: Are you proud of this bill? Is it satisfied to have put all the difficult questions in future investigations? It has had three and a half years to investigate the issues, and yet it has not been completed. Is it not a little distressing to come to Parliament, which is to legislate on matters, without legislative proposals?
i-9nZhb7LRtP5n9QQ92zhKxv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the questions! As I said, the bill is over 500 pages and contains many concrete measures. The most important change is that behavioural disorders are not tolerated. It's a big position transfer. As I said, we have had cross-block cooperation. It was Eskil Erlandsson in the former alliance government who commissioned the investigation. The investigation worked for two years, and Eva Eriksson delivered two thick lunches with a total of over 1,100 pages with various suggestions. If all these proposals had been implemented, we would have had a very sprawling piece of legislation, with which I do not think anyone in this House would have been particularly pleased. We have examined the proposals that we have considered relevant. We note that the legislation is currently working well overall. There is a need to tighten up and follow up previous legislative changes that have been implemented in such a way that they are supported by the law. It is of course an important foundation that the practice that has been developed over the years should have the support of the law. Then we need to look at a number of parts, and it's a bit of a process. It is also important that we get an agricultural policy, a CAP, which supports and rewards loose operation to a greater extent. We do not prohibit those who are authorised to continue drifting, but this form of animal husbandry should be phased out. There the bill is very clear that it must be done over time.
i-8384a545c818b405-232	Mr President, I would like to I think Isak From's answer says a lot about how to look at the bill. I agree that Eva Eriksson's investigation was huge. It was detailed in some parts but very undetailed in other parts. That is precisely why the Alliance did not return legislative proposals in the parts that were unclear. My criticism of the government is that a bill is being tabled without the necessary investigations being carried out to arrive at the concrete legislative proposals. That is why I believe that the proposal itself is unfinished. Instead, what is being done in the bill is to highlight a number of issues that make things much more unclear and uncertain for all animal keepers around the country. What about future investments, which in many cases are necessary to move forward and have a competitive food and agricultural sector in Sweden? I would like to come back to the ban on abandoning animals. I think that's good. If you are responsible for an animal, it is healthy to take responsibility for the animal all the way. Our biggest problem with abandoned animals is cats. The problem is not basically to prevent animals from being abandoned, but the problem is how to deal with already abandoned animals. Who's gonna take care of them, and how are we gonna do that? That's where the government owes us the answer.
i-8384a545c818b405-238	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think it is clear that we are presenting a balanced law. From both industry and animal welfare organisations, there have been positive comments to the fact that the government has now presented a framework law covering all areas. Just as I replied to Mr Eskil, we do not make decisions at a detailed level. Our authorities do, and there will be changes in regulations. This is also a process in which several other policy areas are involved. The food strategy is hugely important, and the work that has been started in the SLU Scientific Council will be important for regulatory simplification, improvements and clarifications from the Swedish Board of Agriculture. At the end of the day, it is important to have competitiveness in the agricultural sector and to have the courage to invest. More action is needed from other policy areas. We are now taking an initial step. It is forbidden to abandon your pets. There are higher demands on the individual cat holder, and cat owners will see their cats cared for if they do not care for them.
i-8384a545c818b405-242	Mr President, I would like to Again, we see an example that the government would rather investigate than act. I find it odd, especially on an issue that involves so many people. Almost half of the Swedish voters say that how the parties stand on animal issues is important for which party they will vote for, and a clear majority of the Swedish people, regardless of party, want a stop for the fur industry in Sweden. But the Social Democrats and the Green Party choose to continue to investigate, despite the fact that we already have a solid investigation from 2011. Wild cats are a big problem. Isak From said earlier about mandatory labelling and registration of cats that it is not okay for a cat to run to the neighbor's sandbox. But, Isak From, the whole thing about mandatory labelling and registration of cats is that you should be able to know which cat it is that runs to the sandbox. Now we will still not know, and we will continue to have problems with over 100 000 feral cats over which we do not have control. Why are you not acting on this issue? As far as the fur industry is concerned, Isak From says: We do not prohibit individual industries, but if necessary we can steer up. Does Isak From think that minks in today's Swedish fur industry have the opportunity to climb, hunt, swim or engage in other occupations? If not, what do the Social Democrats want to do about it?
i-8384a545c818b405-245	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is not allowed for cat owners to let the cat run to the neighbor's sandbox, whether it is marked or not. Point. But if it is marked, it is easier to return to the owner, and otherwise it is quite obvious that the cat will not continue to live. The legislation is clear that you can take care of and kill pets that the owner cannot keep track of or that have been feral. It's a pretty big position transfer. As far as minks are concerned, Jens Holm's brand is to ban industries, especially mink industry. It is not a matter for us to ban industries, but, of course, livestock farming, regardless of species, should have good conditions. The fur industry has been in question. Different contributions have been made about where the fur industry is going. Nevertheless, we can see that it is an industry that has a turnover of more than 1 billion in Sweden. There are a number of competitive companies in Sweden, mainly in rural areas, that export very good quality leather and that claim that the mink industry in Sweden is the best in the world. We have given a clear mandate to the Swedish Board of Agriculture to evaluate where the fur industry is today in its animal welfare work and what efforts we may need to make to strengthen it.
i-8384a545c818b405-249	Mr President, I would like to As far as the cats are concerned, we were told clearly. If you don't notice, we'll kill. That's what Isak From says. So it's the cats who take the fall. Wouldn't it be better to have compulsory labelling and registration so that we put the responsibility on the cat owner, not on the cat? So to the fur industry. The UK, the Netherlands, Austria, Germany, Switzerland and most recently Norway prohibit or regulate the fur industry in their countries so that the fur industry cannot continue to operate. From Isak From, however, we get a clear statement as to why the Social Democrats and the Green Party are not doing anything about the fur industry in Sweden: The industry has a turnover of SEK 1 billion. Okay, now we got it black and white. The industry weighs heavier than the 1.2 million minks in the Swedish fur industry. Isak From says that it is my signature to want to ban activities. However, the proposal we are putting forward is the same as yours and my party and the Green Party agreed on ten years ago: that the minks should be able to climb, hunt, swim and engage in other occupations. These are functional requirements. It was through functional requirements that we stopped fox breeding in Sweden, not through a special nutritional ban. Trade bans are much more complicated and can be more expensive because industry can counterclaim compensation from the state. By means of functional requirements, we can put an end to this industry and animal cruelty, but you do not want that. I ask again: Does Isak From think that minks in today's Swedish fur industry have the opportunity to hunt, climb and swim? If not, will you do something about it?
i-8384a545c818b405-255	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech and have said a number of times in this debate: we make no distinction between which animals are reared. All animals should have good conditions and good animal welfare. We make a clear position transfer and establish that behavioral disorders are not allowed. This also affects the fur industry and means that the fur industry should be able to show that their animals do not have behavioural disorders. The House has not legislated in detail what movements a pig, a sheep, a cow and so on should do. Neither do we when it comes to minks. As far as cats are concerned, we have announced that we will investigate this. There are a number of question marks. Who's gonna keep the register? How much is it? Can we in any way support the non-profit forces working on this? Or is it the state that should hold on to this? It will cost the state money if you do not charge a fee. These are relevant issues that we are obliged to consider. We take this very seriously, and that is why we are presenting this proposal.
i-8384a545c818b405-260	Mr President, I would like to Isak From gave a long speech. Perhaps it is because we do not have a minister here today that he has assumed responsibility. In my speech, I mentioned compliance with rules in Sweden and in other countries within the EU. For example, I mentioned that 17 years ago it was decided that there should not be regular cutting of pigtails. While other countries ignore this and continue to comply with this rule. What does the government do to improve compliance with the rules that have been decided? That's my first question. The second issue is the use of antibiotics, where the forecast shows that there will be an increase of 67% globally. We know it looks better in Europe, but globally it looks very bad. We will be affected by this. My question is: what are you and the government doing about this problem? How does Isak From view the problem? It's very scary.
i-8384a545c818b405-265	Mr President, I would like to Today we will decide on a completely new framework law on animal welfare. This means that the Swedish Board of Agriculture will make new regulations. Particular consideration will be given to SLU's currently working scientific advice. It will be important in the continuing process, because animal welfare and rearing is a process over time. I think it is good that we have had a broad, cross-block view that animal welfare in Sweden is important and the basis for our competitive livestock production. Antibiotics have become a public health concern, and then all of a sudden the world wakes up and goes to Sweden and looks at how we have managed to cut large amounts of antibiotic use. We have a responsibility to show how animal husbandry can take place so that antibiotics are not needed. We are and have put forward proposals on origin labelling. Above all, I think it is important when it comes to chicken reared in South-East Asia, which uses a lot of antibiotics, that consumers are alerted to the fact that if we buy products from these countries, we risk world health over time. This is important, and I think everyone should pay attention. I believe that the House and the Parliament fully agree that the work carried out by Sweden has been successful. We can do more, but above all we have much to teach other countries. Consumers must know that animals are reared under good conditions.
i-8384a545c818b405-270	Madam President, I would like It is excellent that the government has now come up with this proposal. There we agree, as Isak From said, and that is something we all wish for. We know that these are not exactly the same conditions for Swedish farmers and farmers in other countries, not even in Europe. There's a lot of difference. You often talk about the extra heavy backpack that the Swedish farmer goes and carries. It is a question of complicated rules, but also of grazing requirements, where farmers in other countries receive compensation for letting the cows go to pasture. This is not to be done in Sweden, because we have it in the legislation. That's the difference. At the same time, we have animal husbandry in Sweden where cows can move freely in a completely different way and to a much greater extent than in other countries. How do you see it, Isak From? This is something farmers often point to. They feel disadvantaged and say they have an extra backpack to carry.
i-8384a545c818b405-273	Madam President, I would like It is clear that this is different and that the countries do not look the same. We also have competitive advantages, although it may now be changing a little. For decades Europe has been affected by various forms of drought, while in Sweden we have had good access to clean water to provide our animals and so that we can ensure that we have agricultural production. Maybe now it's changing. We have several other positive elements that prevent us from being able to compare ourselves correctly with all other countries. We have had a high political ambition in the field of animal welfare. Another aspect is the common agricultural policy, which aims to provide a level playing field so that we have an agricultural policy that rewards loose operation and facilitates grazing. You shouldn't have to count trees in your meadows to get support and so on. It is good if we can get away from such a detailed system. The basis we are presenting today is a balanced piece of legislation that provides basic security for all animals. It also gives farmers clear rules of play in the future. This is a process that will be evaluated when the Swedish Board of Agriculture comes up with new regulations and when SLU's Scientific Council comes up with new research. Then we will be able to continue to debate the next step.
i-8384a545c818b405-277	Madam President, I would like For an environmental party, it is of course a joyous day today, when Sweden will have a new animal welfare law. It's something we've been fighting for and talking about for a long time. We have heard in this House today that it has been a long process. The investigation New Animal Welfare Act came back in 2011, but it is only now that we have it in place. There have been some criticisms that everything is not there. If you listen to the House, however, you hear that there are very different parts that the speakers themselves do not think are involved, so I think it is a good balance that the whole House can support. It is just over 30 years since the old law was passed, and much water has run under the bridges ever since. Much knowledge has come to light, and we have come a long way and changed our perception of what is acceptable animal husbandry. The law has been amended, patched and fixed, and new regulations have been written since then. But it is only now that we take a holistic approach and come up with a new law. The purpose of the new law is to ensure good animal welfare and to promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. I think this is an incredibly fine purpose in a team that I really support. Respect for animals means that the law sees that animals have their own value, not only in relation to or for man, but in itself. In fact, this has not always been obvious, but it has gone a little up and down through time. A few years ago I had the opportunity to meet and talk to Jane Goodall, the famous primate researcher and ethnologist. I think a lot of people know her. She was in Africa studying chimpanzees. One of her first pioneering research insights, or what others thought were research insights, was that the chimpanzees are individuals and have different behaviors. She didn't name them 1, 2 or 3 but gave them names and knew that chimpanzee is this and that chimpanzee is that. This was groundbreaking and a shift in how you look at animals. When I talked to her, she said she didn't understand that it would be so strange that animals have personalities, because she grew up with a dog and had known it all the time. I believe that we, as owners of animals, are aware of this and recognise that all our animals are different. We have taken many steps forward in other parts too. When I started studying biology, I wondered if fish can feel pain. Today you know that they can and not only that: you can see that even fish have different behaviors and personalities. They can even use tools in some cases by swimming to certain places to crack mussels. We see that animals have different behaviors. Different species of animals behave differently and have things that we humans like to see. I don't know any animal that can look as wronged as a despoiled red shark, look as curious as a mountain gust, or be as jealous as a dog that sees you clapping the cat. There are also altruistic bats that help each other without being related. But giving animals human traits is not quite right. We're not supposed to humane animals. That is also not what I want to say by saying this. It's not right. We don't want a disneyed world. All species have their features. They experience different things, have their conditions and needs. That they react with anxiety, fear, depression and joy I think we all agree on. But different animals have very different traits. What we humans think is not always right. I'm about to get back to talking about the law. But I still want to share something. I think a lot of people remember a little cute movie that rolled around on Youtube a few years ago about a little inertiallory, a half-pa, that sat in the hand of a human being. When you wedged it on your stomach, it lifted your hands up, and everyone thought it was so cute. This was further shared, and so did I. The problem is that that's what a dulllory looks like when it panics and is really scared. The cute clip, which many thought was fantastic, was actually a filmed assault. But neither the owners nor we who shared this further knew. With new knowledge, we must take in how we treat animals. We can do things in ignorance. But when we know things, we also need to move on. When we legislate on animals, we should not start from the human perspective, but from the natural behaviour of animals. A cow needs to graze, a pig needs to bend and minks like to swim. The more we learn, the better conditions we have for good animal welfare and good animal welfare based on the animals' natural behaviour and respect for the animals. That is exactly what this new law is about. As I said, the proposal for a new law on animal welfare states that animals should be kept and managed in a good animal environment in such a way as to promote their welfare, that they can carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated and which are important for their well-being, that is to say, natural behaviour. It is also important that behavioural disorders are prevented. Since knowledge is so incredibly important, we have already decided in connection with the Swedish Food Act that a scientific council should be a risk assessment body for animal welfare and identify, compile and evaluate scientific research on animal welfare and related issues, for example, to help when the Swedish Board of Agriculture will decide on regulations and so on. You should take part of the latest research. That's what matters. Apart from these very basic regulations, many good things are included in the law. One thing that is a little outside the law is that elephants and sea lions are banned in circuses. The decision itself will be a change to the regulation. But that is something that we go forward with. It is strange that this did not happen until 2018, but now it is done and will be banned. We require that the keeper of animals have, in addition to knowledge, sufficient competence to meet the needs of the animals. Some have asked if one should not have a certain education. However, I do believe that this wording on competence and how this should be applied is sufficient. Animals are different, and we have many different species. If you can show that you have sufficient competence for what you are doing, I think that is the best way forward. We have already talked a lot about cats and that domestic animals should not be abandoned. I can agree that it is very difficult to see if a cat is abandoned if it is not marked. But that is also why we are moving forward with an investigation into how this is to be done. My cats are already marked, registered and insured. But there are several parallel systems. We do not really know how it would be possible to legislate on this. We are now getting an investigation so that this can be achieved in a good way. We have also talked about a ban on animals being trained or put to the test in such a way that they are subjected to suffering. The ban on doping is extended and clarified. I think that is obvious. However, it is extremely important that it should now be stated in the legal text that it is unacceptable. However, there are a few things that need to be balanced and that an investigation should be allowed to look at. This applies to badgers used in samples. Some believe that the social benefits of any search, and so on, still allow the use of live badgers, while others do not. That's why we're doing an investigation to see what it looks like and whether it's changed. Forms have been changed. But an investigation will show what this really looks like. We also have new rules on animal bans, so that conditions can be created for a more nuanced and proportionate application. I think that's good. An incredibly important change is a tightening up and clarification of the fixation of sows. It must be clearly stated that it must be allowed only for veterinary reasons or for animal welfare reasons for a very short period of time, for example during a treatment where the sow may need to be fixed to get to it in a good way. This is not something that must be done by routines or in order to increase production. This can only be done for veterinary or animal welfare reasons. It's a clear tightening up. I think this is an extremely important step in the right direction. We also have a new confidentiality-breaking provision in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which allows health care personnel and social services to provide information on certain animal welfare problems to the control authority or police. This is also incredibly important for detecting abuses. We also know that animals are often harmed even by people. This is a major step forward. One of the main elements of this is that we now need to improve the conditions in fur farming. As an environmentalist, I find it strange that we can raise animals to use only the fur. We want to see a ban on this. But we also see an industry that has taken many steps forward since the last investigation was carried out. Let us therefore evaluate what it looks like. That is what we can agree on in this House. But I find it hard to see that minks can perform their natural behavior as long as there is no water to swim in. I hope that this investigation gives us black and white so that we can move forward and do what has been said here and get rid of this activity, as has happened in many other countries. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved.
i-8384a545c818b405-304	Madam President, I would like I believe that this proposal in several areas is a missed opportunity. Instead of acting, the government chooses to investigate. Why not introduce mandatory labelling and registration of cats? Why are wild animals not banned in circuses? Why is it not ensured that the animals of agriculture are entitled to outdoor stay? Why is it not ensured that there is a stop to the binding and fixation of animals? And why not impose a ban on pot tests on badger hunting? These are just a few examples of betrayal of the animals. But the biggest betrayal is the betrayal of minks in the fur industry. There the government, after having been in power for almost four years, now chooses to set up an investigation into whether minks have the possibility of natural behaviour in the minimal net cages in the fur industry in Sweden. I think Emma Nohrén knows very well that part of a mink's basic need is to be able to move over large areas, to be able to climb, to be able to hunt or, as Emma Nohrén herself says, to be able to swim. It is important for these animals. Then I wonder, Emma Nohrén: Why do you not stop this activity now that you can? Why are you investigating again instead of acting? I want to know.
i-8384a545c818b405-308	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. I think he is well aware that our two parties have a similar view of this. But he also knows that there is no majority in this House for such a decision. If more people are to understand what we know, that minks need water to swim in and that they need larger cages, we need an investigation that black and white will find out if what is now in force is living up to the new animal welfare requirements. I don't think it does. When we find out, I think we can get more people on a ban. But we must be able to show this. It is also the case that the mink industry has taken several steps since the last investigation, and then it is important not only to run over it but to see what has happened and whether it has become a difference. Then you can say whether it's enough or not. As far as I know, it's not enough from what I know about minks, but let an independent investigator find out!
i-8384a545c818b405-311	Madam President, I would like Politics is about taking a stand. What we do is take a stand for different interests that sometimes stand against each other. We heard the Isak From of the Social Democrats tell us that the fur industry in Sweden has a turnover of approximately SEK 1 billion. Yeah, you put a lot on the market because you export skins to rich Chinese people-- you sell the skins expensive there. But someone's paying the price for it, and it's the minks. I think we have enough information about how the minks are doing in the fur industry in Sweden. Our parties already thought so in 2006, Emma Nohrén, twelve years ago. We then put forward concrete proposals on how to stop the mink industry in Sweden. I think it is a little strange that we could act then, but that the Green Party and the Social Democrats are not acting now that they have the chance to do so. Emma Nohrén refers to the Riksdag and that a majority does not want to act against the fur industry. Then I would like to say two things. Have you even tried? Have you even put forward a concrete proposal? In fact, there are quite a few committed animal rights politicians in the other parties. Put this out, take the fight and win it! Then, in fact, you do not even have to present it in Parliament; it is possible to regulate this at regulation level. Then we do not even have to vote on this in Parliament. We regulate a lot of things at regulation level, as well as through the action of the House. Then we could get rid of the mink industry. But you don't do anything about it. You choose to investigate. I think that's a dyke, and I think it's a betrayal of the animals.
i-8384a545c818b405-314	Madam President, I would like I believe that Jens Holm is seeking a conflict on an issue where there is no conflict. We see that the furry animal industry and the way it is carried out means animal husbandry we do not want to see, but we should also remember that since we put forward a proposal together in 2006 – a proposal that the alliance parties tore up when they came to power – the industry has taken a lot of steps forward. This means that others think that we should look at this. We have a duty to see what action has been taken. For we are not going to legislate on individual species, but we are going to have a law that allows all animals to have the opportunity for natural behaviour. When we have an investigation that shows what the industry looks like today, I think we will have a result that says that it does not live up to the new Animal Welfare Act, which requires natural behaviour and ensures that stereotyped behaviour disappears. In this way, we can phase out the nutrients.
i-8384a545c818b405-317	Madam President, I would like Animals are something we all get involved in. I think that the Green Party has had the tradition of maximizing the votes of those who cannot vote for us – future generations, solidarity with peoples in all countries and animals and nature. However, defending those who cannot make their voice heard should not be a mere environmental partisan approach; it is the duty of a developed society. If one were to ask the Members of this House, I think every single Member would say: Yes, we are proud that Sweden goes beyond the EU's minimum standards for animal welfare – when we have done so. But why not go on the road we are proud of? I think there's something else here that everyone can share, namely: You old, you free, you mountain high north You quiet, you joyous beauty! Let our national anthem be applied to animals too! Don't let them grow so fast that chickens break their legs and animals get stressed out-- let them grow old. Let them have mandatory bait in the summer. Let them be free. Keep the mountain bait – make sure it remains in our mountain high north. You quiet: The animals that come to the slaughterhouse have the right to have immediate stunning before slaughter. Let the silence, not the cry of anxiety apply! You joyous beauty: Don't let these living creatures be forced into circuses they don't want to do. On some of these points we are moving on. Sea lions and elephants will not live in circuses. We have entered the right to natural behavior and strongly motivated it. There's a little change in the demand for anesthesia. We are getting a bit along the road; finally, after seven years, we have a proposal that actually leads somewhere. But why not go one step further? I remember when I was new to Brussels and worked there. Then it was a great scandal where a lot of chickens died but it was a long time before anyone called the vet. Instead, the insurance companies were called, and only when insurance companies paid too much was it discovered that the chickens were poisoned. In Sweden it is animal welfare that applies. Here we call the veterinarian when the animals are sick, and here we prevent the animals from getting sick. We are very pleased that the use of antibiotics is low here. Some say that this costs money, that we cannot afford and that we need to simplify – lower requirements. But it's really shooting yourself in the foot. Target management may sound good, but whose goal is one trying to achieve? It is easy for short-term economic objectives to be steered. It is better to have clear regulation, as the bill proposes, unlike the reservation from the alliance parties. The conflict between the good of man and the good of animals is false. It's just about who pays the price for bad animal welfare. It is foolish to squeeze animals together so that antibiotic use increases. They get sick, veterinary costs are rising and eventually there are so many multi-resistant bacteria that the medical costs are running out. Selling horse meat as something else cost billions of damages. Farming with the cheapest possible feed can lead to the death of workers and environmentalists in Brazil in the battle for the rain forests. The Danes have felt the consequences of regularly breaking the rules on how to raise pigs: eventually poorly stimulated pigs not only bite each other in the tail but the nutrition does. Now the Danes are introducing their own labelling criteria to raise standards. It may seem profitable to import fertilizers, with finite resources with phosphorus, from Morocco. Globally, 575 megatonnes of carbon dioxide are released from this. However, with grazing – with natural feed – we can manage without these imports of fertilizers and soybeans. It is not the cow release we should let go of, but it is the myth that the reduced grazing requirements would increase profitability. Moreover, we can never compete with the lowest price – fuel is cheaper in Romania, land costs less in Bulgaria and wages are lower in Greece. Our only chance is to produce added value based on animal welfare. That is why we are going to go further in raising the requirements for animal welfare. Then there are some things where we haven't really reached all the way through. I think, for example, that we could have taken a clearer stand against tying up. With regard to fixing sows, reference is made to the fact that it may be necessary for animal welfare reasons. But the reason is that the pigs grow so fast and become so heavy and big so fast. It's wrong from the beginning when you have to fix animals because they grow so fast that they crush their own children. This is what we are going to do something about. Swedish consumers are willing to pay a little extra for what is better, but then Swedish meat production must also be better. I would also like to mention the test animals. The government has established a 3R centre to refine, reduce and replace previous animal testing methods. That's very good. Here we can also move on to work. The EU framework for animal testing leaves considerable room for national interpretation. Here, Sweden could lead the way in the 3R work and be the first with a pharmaceutical industry and chemical industry that replaces animal experiments faster than everyone else. It is a question of pressing for alternative methods to be approved within the OECD system. Then there's the mink business. The Swedish people think that it is an out-of-time method to produce clothes. In the 1800s and in the early 1900s, iceshares were a fairly common view of our streets. They sawed up large blocks of ice, and they were put in their ice lockers. There are no longer any left. We don't need them. We have a better solution to keep food cold: refrigerator. They had to do other things. It was hard and hard work. Today there are mink farmers. It's also hard and hard work, and it's very hard and hard for the minks. It is also an out-of-time job. We have options, not to stay cold, but to stay warm. We don't need mink fur anymore. Furs are no longer required. There are many good options. And above all: To torment animals just to make us warm is real cold. We say in this House that the mink industry has been trying to develop. I don't think they've been trying to evolve. They've known the Animal Welfare Act is coming. They know that there is a majority of the Swedish people who want to replace their nutrition with other jobbs. Nevertheless, only three out of 32 mink farms surveyed survived without comment during inspections. I don't think they're trying to survive. Then we won't do it either. They probably have many qualifications and can do many other good jobs. But mink farming without the most basic requirements for natural behavior does not work. We agree that we should have grazing requirements, because it's a natural behavior. A majority of the parties in this House have said, through various congress decisions and other things, that we should have swimming, which is part of a strongly motivated and natural behaviour. Why don't we just decide on this today? I think we could do it for the people, for the minks and for the sake of the mink industry. They can get jobs that have a better future ahead of them. Many other countries have already taken that step. Why should Sweden lag behind? At World Animal Protection's ranking we come very high up. Let's fight to get a gold spot. Great Britain and a large country of fur production like the Netherlands made it. Austria, Slovenia and a lot of Balkan countries have already gone ahead of us. Germany has introduced swimming requirements. We'll sit here and discuss. We're going to investigate: Is it necessary, or is it not necessary? Is that strongly motivated? Is that it or not? It is said that there are scientific reports showing that it is not. In recent years there have been several very good investigations that have shown that when you test swimming in sufficiently large pools, it is a highly motivated behavior that is necessary for their well-being. Well, then, I guess we should make the demand that our own team says we should make. Now it will be investigated. I think we could make a decision here and now.
i-8384a545c818b405-345	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Carl Schlyter, particularly on the issue of the fur industry. It's out of date. It is embarrassing that Sweden lags behind and that a number of other countries go ahead and ban the fur industry or impose strict functional requirements so that it is effectively prohibited as in the case of Germany and Switzerland. It is also courageous for Carl Schlyter as an environmental party to go up in the debate and state clearly that he believes that there is no need for further investigations, which is what the government is proposing, but that we should be able to act now. That is why I simply wonder: will Carl Schlyter vote in favour of reservation 25, which is about us taking action against the mink industry in Sweden so that once and for all we can put an end to it? That's reservation 25 from the Left Party.
i-8384a545c818b405-348	Madam President, I would like Let me say that there are no good and bad environmental partners. We're in the government, and you do the best you can. Both of our parties actually have a congressional decision to have swimming requirements. You think it could be easy to make that decision. Now the government hasn't done it. The traditional thing is that as a Member of Parliament you follow the decisions of your own government. That is why there are demands for me as an environmental party and a government party to vote with the government. I think it is an unhealthy order when everyone should always vote the same. We do not live in North Korea or are in a Chinese People's Congress. We're not an algorithm, like Valter Mutt said here. We are also sentient beings. I have been involved in this matter. I was even chairman of the European Parliament's Animal Welfare Group. Sometimes you have to put your personal beliefs and principles before loyalty to a government and in solidarity with the living animals we are trying to protect. We will probably take a little summer rebelle time here with me saying: I will support your reservation, because I cannot do anything else. But that does not mean that those environmentalists who do not today make a bad choice. They've done as far as the government went. I really wish we could all have a free vote here. Then I'm sure your reservation would win. If everyone here could vote for heart, soul, and concern, that reservation would win today. There is a majority who do not want this. Unfortunately, however, that is not how the Riksdag works. I wish that Parliament could more often leave room for its own thought, its own will, and do what is known to be right and not constantly defend a compromise that has been made with an industry that we should actually regulate instead of following.
i-8384a545c818b405-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that support. It is courageous and honorable for Carl Schlyter to follow his heart and vote for what is best for the animals. Of course, the best thing for animals is, of course, reservation 25 in the report. I would like to call on all Members of Parliament to look at reservation 25. It is about us stopping the fur industry in Sweden because the minks there suffer and cannot exercise their natural behaviour. I think just like Carl Schlyter: If more people were to read reservation 25 carefully and if more people were to follow their heart and act for the animals, we would win. Then we could throw the fur industry at the garbage heap of history where it belongs. This is something that more and more countries in the world are doing. Sweden should not lag behind on this important issue.
i-8384a545c818b405-358	Madam President, I would like That's great. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we here in Parliament now, in one of the very last votes for the whole parliamentary term, set a new standard for how we make decisions? All parties here could agree to have free voting on this issue. They could allow all their members of the parties to say in the run-up to the elections: I made an independent decision on this issue. I ignored the Rules of Procedure. I didn't care about a candidate contract. I ignored a lot of rules that keep us from acting like the people we're all here. All of us here became politicians because we wanted to change society. We wanted to do it with others in parties, not blindly obeying a tradition of loyalty that exists with the government when the party is sitting there, or with your party if you have a strong conviction and have declared it beforehand. Wouldn't it be liberating to finally be able to vote freely on a matter of life, heart and soul? We should take courage and do it this time and show the voters: here is thinking, knowing people. It is not politicians who simply obey their traditions. We've made deals. We'll bet on them, and we'll defend them. But sometimes one must be able to allow one's heart and conviction to stand above the party ties and ties with the government. We have a principle of power sharing in Sweden. The government has a part of the power, and the parliament has a part of the power. Let us show that we dare to stand independently at least this time! It takes a little more freedom for voters to regain confidence in politicians as sentient and thinking beings and not just as party members.
i-8384a545c818b405-364	Madam President, I would like The contract law lasts 100 years. The oral agreement has been and is an important part of contract law. However, when there is scope for exploiting and deceiving people and when companies are set up to carry out illegal activities in principle, the legislation must take precedence. The seller's initial phrase that he or she should not sell anything slips over to an offer that is misunderstood. Then comes the invoice. A disturbing conversation will be a very expensive affair. Consumer protection in telephone sales needs to be strengthened. When an elderly person answers the phone and someone calls from the organisation in which he or she has been a member for 50 years– then there is a basis for trust. This trust is all too often used by telephone sellers to make a deal. It may be your grandmother or your grandfather who agrees to subscribe to tickets; at least that's what the seller says has happened. Then the older person is there with increased monthly fees when you already have a strained wallet. The consequences of a highly studied strategy were highlighted last autumn by Dagens Nyheter.
i-8384a545c818b405-370	So it may sound, and this yes is then used in a clipping of audio tapes to prove that a contract has been concluded. Then this yes is used instead as an answer to the question: Are you interested in this product? Many older ones then feel pressure for a contract to be concluded and for what is said to be true. Today, telephone sales are perceived by many as disturbing. When the phone rings, it is often a telephone salesman with an offer. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency, the most common cause of problems in telephone sales is that the customer feels caught up in something that you do not want to accept. Gravity in these cases is the focus on binding subscriptions to products. In addition, when target groups such as the elderly, people with a weak economy or people with a lack of language skills are identified, I think that this clearly conceals a lack of scruples that must not go unaddressed by us politicians. There are therefore strong reasons to strengthen consumer protection in telephone sales. The current law enforcement that we are debating today is a requirement in writing that will require that the oral demand be followed up before an agreement can be concluded. The agreement needs to be clarified when it is concluded and when it is launched. This is something we Christian Democrats have been pushing for a long time. The Christian Democrats would also have liked to see lottery activities included in the proposal so that all telephone sales could have been banned at the same time. The Social Democrats, who themselves have a lottery business, will be responsible for the answer as to why this is not included in this product. In the criticism that has been made against Kombispel by the Public Health Agency, among other things, is noted by the elaborate marketing that has taken place against groups with weak economics. The sale of gambling credit is illegal for other players in the gaming industry. Good business ethics inspires respect and brings about sustainable customer relationships. In this context, the written requirement is a good addition to promote this cause. Therefore, it should apply to all concerned. Telephone sales are basically a positive and serious tool for many companies, although the problems of consumer protection have been highlighted for a long time. It is therefore well-motivated and necessary to tighten up the legislation. We in the Alliance would have liked to postpone the date something for the law's entry into force, as companies now have a very short time from taking parliamentary decisions until new rules come into force. Companies must be given a reasonable chance to switch sales systems and train staff. We therefore propose an entry into force which will be postponed for five months until 1 February 2019. This is an industry where many young people work. It is students and people who have been far removed from the labour market. It's also a very good step-in job. It is therefore important that we also protect the serious part of the industry. This could have been done much better by pushing forward the date of entry into force rather than now rushing forward something. As far as the formal requirement for written consent is concerned, I would really like to stress that the law and the application of law must not be an obstacle for companies or customers to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. Legislation must be technologically neutral, and I look forward to the various technical solutions that will be developed by companies. Here the legislation should support rather than make it more difficult. Finally, on the basis of the fact that lottery activities have now been excluded from the product, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 to indicate that I think this is a shortcoming in an otherwise good legislative proposal. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-8384a545c818b405-381	Madam President, I would like I too would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. When social democratic economic self-interest is at stake, consumer protection is not worth water. That is how we could summarise the legislative proposal we are now going to adopt. However, let me be clear, Madam President, when we are now discussing telephone sales in this House: the possibility for companies to sell goods and services through telephone sales is a good and important tool that needs to be protected. Telephone sales contribute to entrepreneurship, just as Caroline Szyber was concerned about, and growth. This creates many new jobs every year throughout Sweden. Working with telephone sales is often the first job for many of the country's young people, and it helps many get a first foot into the labour market. However, there are good reasons to strengthen consumer protection in telephone sales. Many consumers feel that they too often suffer from less serious sellers who, through aggressive telephone sales, urge them to accept goods or services on terms that they have not had the opportunity to examine sufficiently. Madam President, I would like In addition to striking hard at the individuals affected, these sales methods damage confidence in the many serious companies that exist and want to take responsibility. This means that there are good reasons for more stringent legislation both for the benefit of consumers and for the benefit of the many serious players. Effective consumer protection strengthens the ability of responsible companies to conduct their business and helps consumers to make informed decisions. There are, however, parts of the government's proposal that we in the Alliance are strongly opposed to. The government has made it clear that the legislation is not general but that there is an exception for the gambling market. So when the Red-Green Government wants to tighten up telephone sales, the lottery sales are excluded even though that is where the biggest problems are seen. The Social Democrats' own lottery companies have witnessed the use of dubious sales methods that lead to cases landing at Kronofogden. When millions to the Social Democratic movement are at stake, there are no breast tones about consumer protection. To further widen the problem picture of this exception, there is something that is important to stress: Direct marketing in general, and telephone sales in particular, is one of the most frequently asked questions from the public to the Swedish Lotteries Inspectorate. The inspection now also sees an increase in this type of issue from the public. We believe that consumer interest must come first and that the government has no basis for making such a clear exception for a specific type of product. As has been said, this is all the more urgent given the recent evidence that there are players in the lottery market who are using aggressive sales methods, in particular to people with major financial problems. Madam President, I would like This proposal raises many questions about the government's motives for tailoring new consumer regulation in an extremely questionable, if not reprehensible, way. That is why, on the initiative of the Alliance, all the other parties in the Civil Committee have pushed through an announcement to the government that lottery sales by telephone should not be exempted from the requirement of writing but, on the contrary, be included in this.
i-8384a545c818b405-391	Madam President, I would like Serious sales are always based on both parties being satisfied with the settlement. It is based on the fact that both the seller and the buyer want to make the purchase, and then both are keen that this purchase really goes through. Therefore, a written requirement is hardly a problem for serious telephone vendors, as the buyer of the service is as keen to confirm the purchase in writing as the seller is. That's why the written requirement is so good – the buyer can't be as easily fooled to accept something that the latter regrets and gets if it wants some time to consider whether the purchase really is what it wants before the purchase is confirmed. I am pleased that we are now getting a law that makes it difficult for those off-line sales that are not based on the fact that both sides are equally satisfied. When telemarketers target what they perceive as weak groups in society and try to get them to enter into an agreement that they do not want, politicians must act and limit opportunities. Madam President, I would like There are goods which are not at all suitable for sales by telephone, I would say. Goods associated with addiction and ill health should not be sold by telephone at all. That is why we think it would be best to ban the sale of such goods entirely by telephone. It is now allowed to sell tickets by phone, for example, and we think that is wrong. Furthermore, lotteries are not subject to this law's requirement for written confirmation. Imagine if the same thing were to apply to alcohol or cigarettes. Imagine that phone vendors would call former smokers and try to sell on them cigarettes, perhaps with free samples as sales technique. Or imagine that sellers would sell wine and beer over the phone. No, of course that's not allowed. Then why sell lottery tickets by telephone when we know that gambling addiction is a major problem in our society? Anyone who is a bit cynical would certainly mention the fact that the Social Democrats themselves sell lottery tickets and that the government does not want to make it more difficult for its own party. I am not saying that this is the case, but the government should take a firm stand on this if they want to avoid these accusations. Lottery should never be sold by telephone vendors, just as we would never allow liquor and tobacco to be sold by telephone. The report contains a reservation from the alliance parties to postpone the introduction of the written requirement, for which we see no reason. This change has been known and discussed for several years now, so there should be preparation in the industry. In addition, there are several months left to change or update their systems. Lobby organisations have also contacted me and, of course, want to push this as far into the future as possible. Their arguments seem to weigh easily when confronted with protecting the elderly and vulnerable in our society. Here it is a matter of taking a stand, and then we choose to take a stand for the weakest. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation No 2.
i-8384a545c818b405-399	Madam President, I would like The Center Party supports both requests from the Alliance joint motion and notes with satisfaction that we have the majority of committees that want lottery sales and sales of package tours to be incorporated into the bill. If there is one area where strong consumer protection is particularly justified, it is gambling and lotteries, partly because gambling abuse is widespread, partly because gambling and lotteries are aggressively marketed, mainly against weak consumers who are at high risk of over-indebtedness. I agree with the criticism that has already been made by the previous speaker that lotteries are not included from the outset in the legislative proposal on which we are to vote. Telephone sales are one of the areas where consumer protection needs to be strengthened, and there must be a requirement for some form of written contract or receipt by the buyer. The Center Party has long demanded this and is looking forward to finally taking a position on a government proposal on an issue where there has long been a majority in favour of written contracts for telephone sales. Our concern also extends beyond the circle of private individuals. We believe that small businesses that own a small forest or agricultural property should also be subject to the written requirement. For us, it is also important that the legislation does not unnecessarily complicate where there is already a relationship between the seller and the buyer and that the agreement is designed in such a way that it is as simple as possible for both parties to conclude and to understand what has been agreed. We have a development with an increasing online trade. Many young people get the first job at a call centre with sales, telephone interviews and other things, and the requirement for a contract must not become something that is perceived as a regulatory problem, because that service will end. It would be unfortunate for all parties – those working in the industry, companies operating in it and consumers. I know that there is a desire from the industry to behave fairly towards its customers, consumers. Serious companies that use telephone or digital channels care about their brand and want to do the right thing. I continue to believe in the industry and know that many consumers also find it positive to be able to order goods and services easily by telephone or by other digital means. Instead, today there is reason to be concerned about where the retail trade is going. We have seen small shops disappear from the city centre and are replaced by house agents, cafes, hairdressers and skin care salons. The next trade death we fear will hit the external merchant barns that were the cause of the center death. We see a trend towards digitalisation also in trade. We can't stop it. We can only try to steer so that consumer protection is protected and customers can feel safe. In this case, I do not see writing as a signature with a goose pen on a watermarked paper or even something that Presidents sit down in solemn forms to sign. There are now safe methods to identify with. Bank-id is probably one of the most established. Just a few years ago no one knew how to change our payments with the Swish service and what it could mean, unless we make sure that cash is also available in society. Confirmation shall be given in a document or in any other readable and durable form accessible to the consumer, says the report. And it is free to interpret and then meet up with a new technical solution or with the help of e-mails or text messages, which already exist today. The industry will quickly want to develop solutions that meet the requirements we set with the law on which it is now to be decided. But it's a short time. Already in September 2018, one week before the election, there should be a written solution. There are going to be recessed vacations in the system developers – it might be a rainy summer. Let's hope so. Time is extremely short. It would have been nice to see that the industry was given at least a year. Now it's only a few months. We in the Alliance have agreed to propose that the law should instead enter into force on 1 February 2019, i.e. five months later than what is stated in the bill. The damage caused to consumers with such a delay is unlikely to be significant. Instead, we now run the risk of a haste forcing bad solutions and uncertainty about how to proceed. I think that only plays those who are not serious in their hands. That is my concern today. It is a pity that the majority of the committee was not as persuasive on this matter as on the ban on telephone sales of package tours and lotteries. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-8384a545c818b405-410	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Hearers! I will begin by stating that we are getting through our announcement that all contracts concluded by telephone, including lottery and package tours, will require written confirmation. We are therefore calling for a reprimand here against the government's proposal for a proposal. It should come back as soon as possible with a supplementary legislative proposal. In addition, I would like to endorse the Alliance's and Liberal's reservation 1 that it is reasonable to postpone the entry into force. It is not reasonable for us to make decisions today and for companies to comply with them already on 1 September. For me it shows a lack of understanding of the conditions for entrepreneurship. This applies to many of the legislative proposals – entrepreneurship and such proposals – that have come from the Government Office. I think that we should allow the reality to have a reasonable time to adapt and reshape the business. Madam President, I would like Our liberal approach to consumer policy is based on the fact that the individual should have the power and the ability to make informed decisions based on his or her own wishes. This right is best exploited in the free market economy, where clear rules of play and effective competition both protect the consumer and make the market flourish. That is why we Liberals want to strengthen the position of the consumer and ensure the integrity of the Internet. We want to develop a more harmonised European consumer law so that consumers can feel safe locally, nationally and within Europe. We want to introduce a comprehensive written requirement for telephone sales and ban the possibility of selling lottery tickets on credit. I shall now elaborate on the reasoning on the latter two proposals. Telephone sales are basically something positive and a serious tool for many companies. It also increases supply and pushes prices for consumers – just as it should work in a functioning liberal market economy. But unserious and aggressive telephone sales have unfortunately become a widespread problem, and 96% of Swedes are against how it works today. The most vulnerable are our elderly and our new Swedes, who have shortcomings in understanding what is said when they enter into agreements. That is why we want a comprehensive tightening of the rules, to strengthen confidence in the telephone market and to protect both the serious players and the more vulnerable consumers. We are pleased that the Social Democrats are finally going forward with the investigation that Birgitta Ohlsson appointed during her time as Minister of Consumer Affairs. The written requirement is a pro-market measure that will strengthen confidence in the industry in the long term. It is also an effective consumer protection that strengthens the opportunity for responsible companies. However, we are critical of how the proposal was designed in the past and that lottery sales were not covered. Lottery sales are an important source of income for the Social Democrats. It's well known. In 2016, 75 million were drawn into lotteries and other similar activities. It is in size with the total income of the Left Party and Liberals, including public support, our membership fees, our contribution and our own sales during the same period. The Social Democrats' lottery has also been caught in the act of using offensive marketing to sell these very lottery tickets on credit to people in debt. Since 2010, more than 8 000 Swedes have been driven to the royal court due to the A-lotteries and the Kombilotteriet. The fact that the Social Democrats have a vested interest in lottery sales must not be allowed to go out on consumers. Consumers must be able to rely on the system to protect them in all forms of telephone sales. It should also not be possible to sell lottery tickets against invoice, as it has been used in an unethical way and risks to add to the already growing abuse of gambling.
i-8384a545c818b405-423	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the report 'Requirements in writing for telephone sales'. Telephone sales are something that irritates and upsets many consumers. Most people who have been called by a doctored telephone salesman feel a little tricked and run over when they hang up the phone. Did I really understand what I accepted? Far from everyone does. Many, not least older people, have been affected to sign agreements that they do not need or benefit from. Just a week ago, a woman in my neighboring municipality agreed to an agreement that she could not use at all. She had no use at all. I think a lot of people recognize themselves in that picture. We should remember, however, that not all salesmen are rogue. But it is the rogues who are causing trouble and destroying for the serious. I usually tell the people I know, my parents among other things: Say no thanks and hang up the phone, without being rude! This issue has indeed been long drawn. I want to go back to how it started. A report, Unfair Commercial Practices, was submitted to the government in August 2006. It was about the same time that I entered the Swedish Parliament, twelve years ago. Additional directives in June of the same year mandated the investigation to carry out an unconditional review of the provisions ensuring consumer protection in the field of telephone sales and to consider the need for any strengthening of the protection. Under the Additional Directive, the investigation would consider two specific aspects related to telephone sales. One was whether there were grounds for taking measures to facilitate consumers' understanding of how contracts are concluded in telephone sales and to discourage the use of so-called negative contractual ties or involuntary contractual ties. The second aspect is the question of how the so-called Nix telephone register would function satisfactorily or whether there were reasons for using a solution other than the then-ending one. During its work, the investigation has found that there are problems with involuntary contract binding and similar procedures in telephone sales. Initially, it was mainly the marketing of electronic communications services that was highlighted as a problem. Recently, sales of subscriptions and products such as underwear, health preparations, electrical and telephone subscriptions have also been dominant in telephone sales. I think many people recognize being called and offered something you don't need. I particularly remember a call I received a few years ago. A salesman called and wanted to sell socks to my husband. I think it was a Friday afternoon, and I was probably cooking dinner. I was a little irritated, but I couldn't get rid of the salesman in a polite way. Finally, I turned him down and said he doesn't need any socks because he always walks barefoot. With this the conversation ended, but it feels sad to have to use those arguments to get rid of an insistent salesman. Madam President, I would like The investigation report Strengthening consumer protection in telephone sales was submitted to the Ministry of Finance in 2015. The process has thus been long on such an important issue. The investigation, which proposed the introduction of a written requirement for telephone sales to consumers, has been consulted. A total of 70 referrals were received. The survey shows that there is considerable dissatisfaction among consumers in telephone sales. Overall, they are of such a scale and nature that measures need to be taken to strengthen consumer protection. The majority of bodies express the need for enhanced consumer protection and for the assessment of the investigation to be shared. That is why I am very pleased that the government presented this bill before the end of my term of office and my term as a Member of Parliament. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 September 2018, which I also welcome. The committee has stated in a notice that an investigation should begin to investigate whether a written requirement for telephone sales to consumers should apply to additional goods and services, including lotteries and package tours. Madam President, I would like This was my last speech in this House. With this, I wish the President, the Registry and my committee colleagues a well-deserved summer leave.
i-8384a545c818b405-437	Madam President, I would like I should also like to thank Mrs Eva, although we still have some discussions in this House before it is, so to speak, over. I would like to ask why the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party in their proposal deliberately choose to remove the activities that are most in doubt and where the harm to consumers is at its worst. It's about the lottery sale. I could have signed up to basically all of what Eva said in the speaker's chair, but it sticks in the eyes that the government deliberately chooses to omit the area that has the greatest negative effects. One cannot deny the fact that it is an activity in which the Social Democrats receive several million. In addition, any other legislation may have rewarded that particular activity. Why does the strengthening of consumer protection not apply here? How can you even defend such a thing?
i-8384a545c818b405-441	Madam President, I would like The last government set up this investigation. It was Birgitta Ohlsson who appointed it and decided on the directives. Lottery sales are regulated by another legislation. It's not something we've chosen to remove. It is not regulated by the Distance Contracts Act, as this legislation does. Gambling services are not covered by EU consumer law directives, so we have not chosen to remove them, but is about another legislation. We have also said that the lottery sales should be investigated to see if anything can be done there. But that's not part of this investigation.
i-8384a545c818b405-443	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, just an administrative declaration that does not agree with us if we beat our chests because we want to strengthen consumer protection. Then the government removes the activity where we see the greatest harm to individuals. A very doubtful sales procedure is being used. In addition, you are extremely quick to send your claim to the bailiff. We've had discussions with the department. All alliance parties stated at an early stage that the lottery sales had to be brought in here. Then we were told that the government did not see any major problems with lottery sales. I wonder how they can say that given how much our committee has worked on over-indebtedness. Referring to legislative arguments does not hold true when one says that one wants to strengthen consumer interest in general. Again, I would like to say that it sounds very hollow when the Social Democrats, who through their lottery business receive 10 – 12 million for their election movement, remove that part while talking about enhanced consumer protection. It sounds very false in our ears. There is also a reason why all parties in the Civil Committee, from the Left Party to the Swedish Democrats and the Alliance, have said that the lottery tickets should be included in this. End of point.
i-8384a545c818b405-448	Madam President, I would like I don't think many of us here want to defend rogue lottery sales at all. But when the problem came to light in 2006, when the investigation was set up, it was not really lottery sales that were the biggest problem. I don't think it's lottery sales that's the biggest problem when a salesman calls a common man. Rather, it is about electrical subscriptions, telephone subscriptions and the sale of health foods and other unnecessary things that you may not need. I'm sure that's the common man's biggest problem. Lottery sales were noticed in 2016 when they saw that there were rogue salesmen there too. You're absolutely not supposed to defend that. But now we have commissioned the government to continue investigating lottery sales and other services that you need to look at. I think it's so good that we have the investigation that there should be written requirements for telephone sales in general. Then you get to come back with the lottery sale. I think it is a major problem that there are rogue players in the market who do not comply with the rules.
i-8384a545c818b405-451	Madam President, I would like I'm going to continue on the same line about the lottery sale. The government has not proposed any restrictions on the sale of lottery tickets by telephone. It was possible to do so in this proposal, if you wish. That the Social Democrats themselves sell lottery tickets over the phone feels a bit unimportant, I think. On the other hand, I would like to question whether a written requirement is sufficient for the sale of tickets. Lottery and games are a bit special overall. We have said that we would like to see a total ban on selling lottery tickets and games over the phone. Calling someone and trying to persuade that person to buy lottery tickets feels very wrong when you know that there are people who have gambling addiction. Gambling abuse is a problem. An unserious salesman could even target people who they know have had gambling addiction. That is why my question is: is it really enough to have a written requirement? Shouldn't you go further when it comes to lottery tickets and games? Lottery and games have been outside the law of telephone sales because it is such a special product.
i-8384a545c818b405-455	Madam President, I would like Then you would need the Distance Contracts Act. Lottery is not included in that law, as is the case with this legislation. It is not just saying that it should be banned or regulated. If you are worried that gambling addicts are being called by someone who wants to sell lottery tickets, then you must also ban all gambling stores from selling lottery tickets. It's the same thing there. When you go to Konsum or Ica you can buy as many tickets as you like. If we are to avoid this, we need a major change at all and not just in terms of telephone sales.
i-8384a545c818b405-458	Madam President, I would like When it comes to amending the Distance Contracts Act, that is precisely what we politicians are set up for – to change laws so that they become better and so that they become protective when needed. I think there is a huge difference between someone calling me on the phone and trying to get me to buy lottery tickets and when I go to Ica I see lottery tickets and have the opportunity to buy. In the latter case, I'm the one looking for a shopping mall myself. Now we're talking about someone else being contacted by phone. You may not be prepared for this supply either. If you are addicted to gambling, you can steel yourself and think: Today I will not have any lottery tickets even though I go to Ica and shop. It's not as easy to steel yourself when the phone suddenly rings and you should answer arguments as these lottery tickets have great payouts in profit and so on. I find it difficult to see the great advantages that would exist with you being able to sell lottery tickets over the phone. Since the Social Democrats are a party that is itself involved in selling lottery tickets over the phone, as I said earlier, it feels a bit unimportant. Somewhere you have to set an example yourself. However, I would like to hear the great benefits of telephone vendors being allowed to call former gambling addicts and try to get them to bet on gambling even if they have a written requirement on this.
i-8384a545c818b405-462	Madam President, I would like Of course it is we who change the laws; that is the case. But we have not been able to get a proposal from the government during the twelve years it has taken to produce written requirements. We have given the government a mandate and announced to them that they will come back with proposals on how to deal with written requirements also in the case of telephone sales of lottery tickets. The sellers, of course, do not seek out just those who have gambling problems, absolutely not. I guess they'll call for other premises; I have no idea. But I still think it's important that we get this law through. Now we get to take the next step and develop a law on lottery sales and package tours.
i-8384a545c818b405-464	Madam President, I would like I am not going to push Eva Sonidsson further on the lottery issue. The fact that peoples' movements finance their activities through lottery sales to members and sympathizers is, in my view, unproblematic and a much better way of financing their activities than other alternatives. I myself have been the chairman of a national federation that is the beneficiary of one of the major lottery tickets – but without having to defend the rogue sale of these tickets. Lottery is doing well and helps to strengthen rural communities and culture. What I see as problematic, Eva Sonidsson, is that there is no understanding on the part of the government parties that it may take time to adapt, to train staff and create working systems to live up to the intentions of the legal text that we are now deciding on. I seriously believe that we will see poor and poorly coordinated technical solutions and unskillable sellers who create major problems, perhaps especially for consumers, but also for service providers and sellers. I've been contacted by big peoples' movement-related insurance companies who are seriously concerned about how short the time will be for them to adapt. That is why I wonder, Eva Sonidsson, how you justify that the time for entry into force is as short as within three months, over the summer.
i-8384a545c818b405-467	Madam President, I would like As far as time is concerned, it seems that this issue has been on the table for many years. In principle, it has been up to date for 12 years. It has not been finished in this particular document for so long, but it is in any case for some year. I think most industries have understood that there will be a change and that they have thus had the time and opportunity to prepare for a change in the near future. We have looked at consumers' rights and opportunities to protect themselves in these matters. That's what we've been looking at, and that's what the investigation has focused on. But I think the industry has had the opportunity and full understanding to prepare for entry into force quite soon.
i-8rybznZu4sCAdfWheRWSAK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Sonidsson, for your answer! Yes, twelve years is a long time, and I think that when the issue was raised twelve years ago, it was precisely the goose pen and watermarked paper that were referred to when talking about a requirement in writing. We have technological developments in society today that make even texting an out-of-date method because we have new technical solutions. Written he t does not have to be, it is a receipt of some kind. A responsibility is also placed on the seller to know how the technical solution works and to inform the customer that it is possible to use it. A proposal for writing could have come a long time ago. We could have had the law in place. Now we are implementing it, at a stage where so much technological development is taking place. The industry contacts me and others to ask if they can't have at least a year. We're proposing less than six months. When you do not accept and agree to it, I do not think you are constructive. It's just symbolic politics. Having said that, however, I would also like to thank Eva Sonidsson for her expertise, her objectivity in the debate and her pleasant tone. I am pleased that I have had to extend the pleasure a little more.
i-EHFaaAy5S2iQ8djbz13Kkm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola, it warms up! When it comes to insurance companies, as you mentioned, I feel that it is an industry that most customers call back. It's very rare, I think, that you get called by an insurance company. Usually you have bought a product, a car, a house or an apartment or whatever it is, and then you have to have insurance from the first day. There I feel that it is we who contact the seller and not the other way around, as it is perhaps in many other contexts with e-subscription, telephone subscriptions and so on. As I said, we have protected the interests of consumers, and we think it is important that the law comes into force as soon as possible so that we feel that we have now put a stop to it. This has been growing for quite some time, I can say, so I think that many industries have known that it will be implemented. As a result, they have been able to start preparing.
i-7Lwh68QKusB8MSge9HymQR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Sonidsson, for your speech. I would really like to reply to the speech of the Swedish Democrats, because when I hear that they want to ban a sales channel – as telephone sales are – I am surprised. What's next? Should we ban sales over the Internet as well? That is something that I understand the honourable Member cannot reply to, but it makes me understand that the Swedish Democrats are not market liberals. Very well. I would like to ask you, Eva Sonidsson, how you view what Ola talked about – this with the entry into force and how you reason there. Ola asked me a question, and I see a number of times when it comes to the legislative drafting of legislative proposals that have a relatively short period of time until their entry into force. The bill on entrepreneurial responsibility, which we are going to stick through next week, also has a short period of time until its entry into force. I wonder how you see it. How will companies and businesses have time to reset at short notice? Say that we would ban lottery sales entirely from today, or say that we would withdraw all party support for your party and all other parties. How difficult would it be for our parties and organisations to change to that reality? We know that the lottery sales are a large part of your revenue, and I think it would have been difficult to reschedule for you too. I think it would be good to have a little more time for the actual entry into force. Otherwise, we agree. Then I would also like to ask a question. We would like to see a ban on the sale of tickets on credit. How do you view that particular question?
i-8384a545c818b405-480	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can't have any point of view, because it wasn't me that Said Abdu replicated on there. As far as this is concerned over time, I would like to say as I did in the last line. I think it is important to protect the consumer in this. That's exactly what we're doing. We protect the consumer's rights and security. You should feel safe with a contract that you have signed, instead of just saying yes or no to it on the phone. As Mrs Szyber said earlier, one question is answered and then cut into a different context. It's sad that rogue salesmen destroy for those who are serious – there are actually those who are serious. I've been a lottery subscriber myself. Then I have called back and said that I want to cancel the subscription, and it has gone great. There has been no problem, and they have not been insistent at all. I believe that the industry is in the process of adjusting itself, so that there will be serious agreements in the future. With regard to this over the period of entry into force, I think it is important that we stick to it being short on a law that strengthens consumer protection.
i-8384a545c818b405-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Eva Sonidsson! I understand your position. It has emerged in the speech and in the discussion in committee. But I am thinking about how you see the entry into force more concretely. If, as of today, we were to say that you were not receiving any support from the party and that the Social Democrats and other parties were not allowed to do so, how long would it take for you to reposition your activities? It would take time. I think that there is a lack of understanding in the legislative work when these proposals have been drawn up and the date of entry into force has been set. We see this both in this bill and in other proposals, as the one about entrepreneurial responsibility and so on. Companies have very little time to change their business, taking into account the staff and so on. You may need to develop a new IT tool. I think it would have benefited the Swedish economy if we could have a little better anticipation of the entry into force. I never got a response to your view of banning the sale of tickets on credit. It's something that's increased. More and more people are using that form. If you have any opinion on this matter, I would be grateful if I could take a look at it. Otherwise, I wish Eva Sonidsson a happy summer. We haven't worked very much together in the Committee on Civil Liberties, but as a colleague in Parliament, I wish you a warm summer.
i-8384a545c818b405-489	Madam President, I would like I think it's a little hard to compare party support and what this law is about. It's a pretty big span in between. But of course everything needs to be prepared. If you have had a long time to prepare, you can have a short time until entry into force. This has been the case if it has been a piece of work and the bill has been produced. After all, this proposal has been a product for some time. We must protect the rights of the consumer. A short entry into force is quite important. I personally object to the sale of tickets on credit. There may be some people who think it's convenient, but we know what kind of problem it can be if you have credits and buy more and more tickets.
i-8384a545c818b405-492	Madam President, I would like We have all, on television or in other media, seen or heard people who, with tears in their eyes and tears in their throats, told us how they ended up in a situation where they, without actually being aware of it or understanding the meaning of it, entered into agreements on various services. Now they cannot afford to pay and have at worst been subject to recovery, with all that that entails. Not infrequently, they are ashamed that they have either allowed themselves to be deceived or have not understood. The problems are often linked to a surprising and stressful sales situation. Some groups of people are particularly vulnerable, especially older people, people with certain disabilities and people who do not know the Swedish language well. But it can happen to all of us. We can compare with the work here in Parliament. As politicians, we are not prepared to buy a proposal standing by in a tense situation. We want time to think about whether it is a bad or a good proposal. We may want to discuss with others or consider whether there are more questions to ask. We can do this here in Parliament, but actually also in a store if we want to buy a product or service there. But on the phone, when you may be distracted by other things at the same time, there is a risk that you may feel both stressed and bothered and act in a way that you would not normally do. I think most of us recognize: We have all at some point found it really hard to be exposed to telephone sales. This picture is also confirmed by the survey conducted by the Swedish Consumer Agency in autumn 2016. It showed that only 1% of consumers are in favour of being contacted by phone vendors from companies with whom they have not previously had contact. It is far from always about an unserious sales business. Not all telephone sales companies are misleading, even if they do. But it is the very form of the selling method that creates misunderstandings or makes the consumer feel pressured and agrees to something that you do not really want or understand. What has been reported in the media has not rarely been about mobile phone subscriptions or internet services, but it has also applied to many other services or products. The study on the basis of which this proposal is based shows that the problems of telephone sales are not limited to any particular type of product or industry. The fact that people too often get caught up in telephone sales is unacceptable to me, my party and the government. That is why we are now presenting this proposal, which is based on a study which has identified the problems and concluded that consumer protection in this area needs to be strengthened and that this should be done by introducing a written requirement for telephone sales. The proposal means that it should no longer be possible to conclude a contract orally on the telephone when the trader contacts the consumer on his own initiative for the purpose of concluding a contract, and if a product or service is delivered without a valid contract, the consumer shall not be obliged to pay. We think this is very good. We in the Green Party are very pleased that such a proposal is now on the table of the Riksdag. It's something we've been fighting for a long time and really want. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-8384a545c818b405-501	Madam President, I would like Members and listeners! Being a consumer is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated. Technically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities, but also pose major challenges for consumers. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. This applies both to the choice of products and to disputes. Advanced methods are used to get us people to consume as much as possible. Every day we are overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more of goods and services. Marketing is often very aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. Swedish consumer policy has a long tradition and is a natural part of the welfare society. The Left Party sees that not all people today have the opportunity to make rational and well-thought-out consumption choices. Therefore, both support for individuals and a clear regulatory framework are needed. Problems that arise in connection with telephone sales have increased in recent years, as confirmed by the Swedish Consumer Agency, municipal consumer advisors and Sweden's consumers. The Swedish Consumer Agency believes that major problems have been caused by telephone sales and that the problems have increased over the years and that the increase in some areas is significant. It is about everything from strong irritation at being disturbed to pure fraud. Written requirements for telephone sales are a requirement that the Left Party has been exercising in Parliament for many years, and we are very pleased that this is finally happening. It is a proposal that consumers and consumer organisations have been waiting for for a long time. The Left Party therefore largely welcomes the proposal on written requirements for telephone sales, which reinforces consumer protection. I also welcome the unanimous announcement by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to the Government that the Government should start work on examining whether a written requirement for telephone sales to consumers should apply to additional goods and services, including lotteries and package tours, and return with proposals. Madam President, I would like When the government proposal did not include lottery and package travel, the alliance parties reacted by presenting a motion on this. The government's explanation was that lottery sales are not covered by the Consumer Rights Directive but that lotteries are regulated by the Lotteries Act. We did not, therefore, directly join the Alliance's motion, but chose to await the government's proposal for a re-regulated gambling market. Among other things, the Government's proposal on written requirements for telephone sales states that the Government does not rule out that, as the investigation also points out, in the long term there may be reason to consider a written requirement for gambling services as well. I expected the government to supplement the issue by including in the bill for a reregulated gambling market written requirements for telephone sales for lotteries. But that was not the case. At that point, we chose to support the Alliance's motion. In the motion, the Left Party writes that all telephone sales must be confirmed in writing by the customer afterwards in order for a binding agreement to arise. Against this background, it is very gratifying that all the parties in the committee are now in agreement on this issue. After all, we are all consumers, and we would like to see stronger consumer protection. Everyone benefits from stronger consumer protection in connection with telephone sales, except rogue companies and sellers. Consumers win, serious companies win, state and municipalities win.
i-8384a545c818b405-510	Madam President, I would like I just wanted to thank Mr Hamza Demir for the very good examination of this dossier, which actually highlights the hypocrisy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party regarding lottery sales. What this debate has shown, Madam President, is worrying: that the Social Democrats have put economic self-interest before consumer protection. You can respect that the Social Democrats do, but the position of the Green Party will be very difficult to understand. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have 70 million in revenue from lottery sales. But I would like to thank the Left Party for joining the Alliance on this issue and for safeguarding consumer protection in all areas, along with the alliance parties and a majority in the Swedish Parliament.
i-8384a545c818b405-513	Madam President, I would like From phone sales of lottery tickets to public health, the step is not so insanely big. We will now debate the Social Committee's report on Good and Equal Health – a developed public health policy and the new objectives that the government has developed. In large part, there is agreement in committee that we should have high ambitions. However, there is a great deal of concern about public health in our country. It's not that it's not good. Compared to us internationally, we Swedes feel good. Public health is generally in a healthy position. But the gaps are increasing. Despite the fact that some of the most basic conditions are in place – that there is prosperity and security and that even those with the lowest incomes have reasonably stable conditions – the gaps increase. Despite the fact that life conditions over the last period of ten eleven years that the Swedish Public Health Agency has analysed in its latest report show that the vast majority of people have been better off, the gaps are increasing. And it is those with low education who run the greatest risks. It is those we manage to achieve to the lowest extent with preventive work and what can enable each of us to have the conditions, no matter where we come from, what educational background we or our parents have and what happens to us in life. When assessing the life expectancy of people currently 30 years old, the difference is 6.2 years. So much shorter a person with a low level of education is expected to live compared to a person with a high level of education. That's why it's so important when we're talking about public health that we're not just talking about how healthcare should work to survive once you've suffered from mental illness, overweight, cancer or cardiovascular diseases, but also, and perhaps in particular, work on how to prevent this. How are we to ensure that you do not end up in the risks that eventually risk leading to premature death? For us Christian Democrats, it is quite obvious that support must always start at home in the family, because that is where we base our habits. Support should be given to parents, and specific targeted support should be given to those parents who have the worst conditions. We know that children of low-income parents are eventually at risk of dying prematurely because of their parents' background. It is even the case that a child's risk of dying is greater if his parents have a low educational background. In our spring proposal, which has been debated and decided on other issues, we proposed that municipalities should be obliged to offer parental support programmes. It is therefore not the parents who should be forced to do anything, but it should be mandatory for the municipalities to provide it, because it is by supporting families and parents that we are establishing the good, early habits. School is also important, especially if you come from a background without adequate parental support. That is why we also had proposals to increase the number of sports hours in school from 500 to 700. Not that we think all the kids love school sports-- there's probably even a few people in this Chamber who might have hesitated to be in the sports classes. But we know how important school sport is and that it works not only for health but also for school results. School results themselves are also a fundamental factor in developing good health later in life. We are pleased that we in the committee have managed to get support for what was included in the Alliance's motion about how important it is that the close care, the primary care, works and that you as an individual also have the opportunity to choose a doctor's contact and register with an individual doctor. We know that continuity is particularly important for those who have ill health and often need to seek treatment. We find it regrettable that we were unable to agree on other important things that were included in the Commission's report on equal health presented earlier. We have proposed that health teams, which should be present in primary care, should work more preventively to strengthen the health of the population. We believe that there is not enough in the investigation that we will deal with in many different ways during the time that is coming. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-8384a545c818b405-523	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the SoU26 report. The report deals with the Government's proposal on Good and Equal Health – a developed public health policy. In addition, eight applications for exercise have been dealt with on the basis of the bill. The proposal proposes a rewording of the overall national public health objective and the transformation of the target structure of public health work. On the one hand, it is an addition to the overall goal of Sweden's goal of closing the effective health gaps within a generation, and on the other hand it is proposed that the cross-sectoral objective and follow-up structure of public health policy with eleven target areas should be transformed into eight target areas. We think this is a good thing, and we are in favour of the proposal. Madam President, I would like Public health in Sweden is generally good, and life expectancy is increasing. At the same time, reports show that differences in average life expectancy between different educational groups have increased in recent years. People's health is generally worse the lower their socio-economic position. The results indicate inequalities that have grown in recent years, particularly in terms of different measures of mortality. Illness is almost consistently higher among those with upper secondary education as the highest level of education than among those with tertiary education. There are signs of an increase in mental illness, especially among young people and among those with the highest upper secondary education. Overweight and obesity are a growing public health problem. About half of the population aged 16 to 68 are currently overweight or obese. In the area of living habits, the development is not very positive either. The proportion of older people who are physically active for at least 30 minutes per day is decreasing, and the proportion of sedentary leisure time is increasing according to the Swedish Public Health Agency's report Public Health's development. Health policy should be forward-looking, stimulating and inspiring. People themselves also have a great responsibility for their health. It's about what you drink and how much. It's about what you eat and how much. It's about whether you smoke and how much you move. All of this can be influenced as an individual but also as a parent. We know that diet, exercise, alcohol and smoking affect our health. Yet the awareness of the impact of these factors on our health is so different. The programs about healthy food that go on television, the diets that are presented and the knowledge that exercise and sport are very important for the body and the psyche to feel better can not have escaped anyone. Then it is worrying that so few move enough every day. Approximately 50 per cent of Sweden's population moves at least 30 minutes per day, which is the lowest recommendation for physical activity. It is therefore a good thing that we in the Alliance have pushed for more sport in school and the right to physical activity in workplaces. Then you can start with something that you can continue with for the rest of your life. If you start at an early age you have the habit, and then it is easier to continue even in older years. The challenges for reducing health gaps and creating a more equal treatment are thus considerable. The now increasing fragmentation of society in general as well as of health care, where growing queues and lack of accessibility have created unequal care, helps to increase the health inequalities that public health policy aims to combat. Health inequalities in society are likely to be exacerbated by recent developments in the current government. We see increased care queues, a lack of accessibility and a declining proportion of the population with a permanent medical contact. Lack of accessibility affects those who are seriously ill and resource-weak in society worst. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it would have been desirable for the government to have based on the proposals presented by the Commission for Equal Health on, in particular, increased accessibility and stronger primary care, which could take greater responsibility for a broad preventive health work, as well as allowing coordinated development for good and close care to receive an additional assignment to develop the primary care mission in order for the healthcare team to work more preventively to strengthen the population's health. Among other things, it is about providing the population with better health information and finding ways to motivate people to take greater responsibility for their lives and health. On the other hand, I am pleased that today we have an announcement that the government should ensure the patient's right to a permanent medical contact, which increases the continuity, security and availability of doctors for the patient. Madam President, I would like With these words, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-8384a545c818b405-539	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the G od and equal health bill – a developed public health policy. It proposes clarification of the national public health objective and the transformation of the target structure of public health work. In my speech, I intended to focus on our elderly, whom we think has been missed in the proposal. Public health is good health for many. Public health can be measured by looking at life expectancy, self-perceived health, quality of life, the experience of security and the occurrence of disease. Public health is affected by the environment in which we live. The overall objective of public health in Sweden is to create good conditions for good health on equal terms for the entire population. Public health should not only be as good as possible, but should also be equally distributed among different groups in society. The bill states that the health situation in Sweden is mainly good but at the same time underlines that there are significant differences in health between different groups in society and that this should be noted. It is recognised that public health policies should improve the conditions for those groups that are most vulnerable in social and economic terms and are therefore most at risk of ill health and premature death. Like the Liberals, we believe that an important group – our elderly – has been missed and that the bill lacks an older perspective that should be included in the target structure. A few years ago, the Public Health Agency developed four cornerstones for good ageing that promote public health among older people, which I think should be focused more often. The first pillar is social community and support. Feeling socially involved is a prerequisite for understanding the society we live in. The second pillar is meaningful. This can mean feeling involved in society or being on your own in everyday life – being able to shop, cook or visit friends. The third pillar is physical activity. Physical activity and outdoor activities counteract overweight, improve sleep quality and promote mental and social health. Physical activity can be important for maintaining one's functional capacity and independence. The last pillar is good eating habits. Food and pleasant meals are very important for health and well-being. Many elderly people already have good eating habits, and promoting them contributes to both well-being and good health. Efforts in these areas lead to improved quality of life for the elderly but also to socio-economic benefits. Mr President, I would like to With good eating habits, it's not uncommon to have a glass of wine for the food – and maybe not just a glass, and not just for the food. There is a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare that shows that more elderly people die from causes that can be linked to excessive alcohol consumption. The biggest increase has occurred among older women. The number of men who die from alcohol abuse is considerably higher than that of women. Of the 1,000 persons who died of alcohol injury in 2015, only 99 were women. However, the growth was highest among women: 125 per cent since 2001. Alcohol consumption in the elderly is increasing. Doctors warn that high alcohol consumption among older people will increase the incidence of dementia, brain damage and liver damage. This also contributes to some of the elderly's main health problems: impaired cognitive ability, immobility, unsteadiness and incontinence. It is therefore important to prevent alcohol harm in the elderly by targeting information measures against those who are now middle-aged, and we believe that an older perspective on alcohol prevention should be introduced. Having said that, I shall conclude by calling for reservations 1 and 5.
i-8384a545c818b405-558	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that today, at the vote, we will be able to take an important decision that will enable public health work in Sweden to take another step forward. The beginning of this trip was taken between 2006 and 2010. The English doctor Sir Michael Marmot was the one who, through his research, made it very clear that the gaps in a society are a major cause of public health deficiencies. He later wrote a report under the auspices of the WHO, Closing the gap in a generation. There he pointed out that one of the most important things we can do to improve public health in a society is to ensure that gaps are reduced. It is precisely improving public health that is crucial in view of the challenges we face, not only in Sweden but also in many other countries, with an ageing population and increasing costs. It was the centre party, the Member of Parliament and the former professor Lennart Levi who made sure that Sir Michael was invited here to the Swedish Parliament. He has since visited Sweden on several occasions. It was therefore gratifying that the current government set up an investigation to look at what further steps could be taken. Unfortunately, however, even when writing the directives from one of the really serious gaps that we have in Sweden, namely the one between urban and rural – or sparsely populated – I would almost say. Health is significantly worse for people who grow up and live in the Swedish sparsely populated area, and this is independent of education and work. The government chose to completely ignore this; the directives had no mandate whatsoever to look at this serious health gap in Sweden. What worries me is that developments during this parliamentary term have also gone in the wrong direction. It is good that we can today decide on a new target structure for Swedish public health, but it would have been even better if we could have taken steps to actually reduce the gaps in Swedish society. There are in three areas quite serious gaps that are increasing in Sweden today. The first area is education. We see an increasing number of young people leaving comprehensive school without having complete grades. Ending comprehensive school without complete grades is a strong contributor to later health problems. Here, efforts should have been made to ensure that young people in this country actually finish school with full grades. The second really serious thing is how the gaps are increasing between those born in another country and those born in Sweden, especially in terms of work. The risk is much greater for those born in another country to suffer long-term unemployment and long-term dependency on benefits. This, too, is one of the main causes of deterioration in health. Here the government has done far too little. This is an increasing gap in Sweden, and it will have serious consequences in terms of health status. The third area where we see how the gaps have increased is access to health care. During this parliamentary term, we have seen how accessibility has been reduced. We have gone from the fact that about 50 percent of the population had a fixed doctor in primary care to 40 to 42 percent today. It is clear that this has serious consequences. We know that those who manage to get a permanent medical contact in primary care are those who have education and work. In addition, the queues have increased in a very serious way. It is today much longer waiting time to get to a specialist and receive treatment. It is the case, Mr President, that whether it is a matter of bread queues in old Leningrad or care queues in Sweden, it is the one who brings out those who have contacts or cash. The gap in access to healthcare in Sweden is extremely serious, because it also increases the gaps in health conditions. Although I am pleased that today we can take a decision on a new structure for public health policy, we from the Center Party take very seriously the fact that the gaps in Swedish society are increasing, which will lead to a deterioration in public health. I therefore support our Amendment No 3.
i-8384a545c818b405-574	Mr President and others who see this – more than we think! This is a really good bill and, of course, we have supported it. We must equalise the difference in health between Djursholm and Rågsved, between Långedrag and Biskopsgården and between the big city and sparsely populated areas. That is exactly what public health is all about – everyone's right to health. The health gaps are large, and it is definitely a matter of class. Perhaps that is why the previous government did so little in this area: Class perspective is not the best subject of the bourgeoisie, I must say. I'm thinking about all the good work that's been done. I would like to highlight the wonderful work of the Malmö Commission and the screening of the whole of Malmö. As far as I know, the initiative hardly came from the right, but we are moving on in this. The Public Health Agency does very good annual reports. I will read before what they write about public health in 2017: Public health in Sweden is good from a global perspective, and in several respects it is better. At the same time, health is not evenly distributed in the population, and health inequalities between certain groups are increasing. It has not done so for the last four years, but it has done so for a very long time. These are the overall results of this year's annual reporting, says the Swedish Public Health Agency: There is a social gradient in health that means that people's health is generally worse the lower the socio-economic position they have. The results suggest that the social gradient has grown over the last ten years, particularly in terms of different mortality measures. Illness is almost consistently higher among those with upper secondary education as the highest level of education than among those with tertiary education. There are also signs of an increase in mental illness, especially among young people and among those with the highest upper secondary education. So this is not a development that we have only seen in the last four years. It is therefore a question of class and health, and the reviews of all existing research on inequality and health clearly show that large income gaps impair people's health. Of course, economic disparities have the greatest impact on those with lower incomes. Rich and healthy– poor and sick sounds familiar, because that's still the case. A clearer policy that works according to the principle of income distribution creates a more equal society. It is not your politics, not the Moderates, not the Liberals, not the Centers, not the KDs, not the Swedish Democrats. All major causes of death in the population – heart disease, stroke, cancer, accidents, suicides and alcohol-related diagnoses – are more common among those with short education. I think I have been talking about this since day one here in the Chamber. In a report from 2016, the prevention of healthcare from an equality perspective, it is clear that we can do so much more than what we are doing today. It is clear that county councils' management of healthcare does not focus on equality, although all county councils consider this to be a very important issue. In fact, only one third of county councils have earmarked money for compensation for preventive work aimed at reducing health gaps. Sweden's work on preventive health interventions has not been given sufficient priority. Working to reduce health gaps cannot be freely chosen work, but must be part of each municipality's and county council's self-evident tasks. I support reservation 2 on a Swedish Public Health Act. Then I think of Stockholm's bourgeois majority. I was in the municipal council for eight years, and it is interesting that during the eight years they did not actually mention the word public health at any time, at the same time as the Malmö Commission did its fantastic work. Politics is to want, said an amazing politician once. Too many children get sick, and how the children feel says a lot about a country's prosperity. Sweden is a rich country. In the OECD's ranking and international comparison of children's health, we end up very high. But the alarm still goes off. It is a question of children's health being largely determined by socio-economic factors such as growing-up conditions and parents' level of education. Research also shows that the injustices that arise when you are small persist when you grow up. Children of parents with high income and education are up to 40 - 45 percent less likely to be hospitalized than children of parents with the lowest income and education. That says a lot. And children of parents who receive financial assistance are particularly affected by health problems and are more than twice as likely to die in childhood as other children. The gaps in the Western world have grown rapidly, and Sweden is one of the countries where the differences have increased most over a ten-year period. In almost all my professional life, I have worked with public health in various ways, at the Public Health Institute, in the Alcohol Committee, at the National Board of Health and Welfare, at the Institute for Disease Control and at the Swedish Public Health Agency. I've really trotted around and worked with a lot of information about public health, alcohol, drugs, sex and cohabitation, HIV. I've met so many dedicated employees all these years. But public health is ultimately about class – about equality. As has already been said, I would like to express my support for reservation 2 and rejection of the motions. Of course, we support the bill.
i-8384a545c818b405-594	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are pleased to see that we are now getting the decision on Good Equal Health – a developed public health policy. However, it is important that we consider why we have not succeeded in some of what previous public health policy sought to achieve. Then I can see that the objective of public health is not achieved only by health care, where primary care has a very important role that we from the alliance point out in reservation 3. This is cross-sectoral work, as is evident from the eight objectives set out in the bill that we are going to decide on. Here in the Liberals we lack a focus on the fastest growing part of our population, namely the years-rich. The bill has a very strong concentration on children and young people, and that is good. It is fine, for it is important to acquire knowledge of how to maintain one's health through life. But the year-long generation is the fastest growing generation. Out in the community, in the municipalities and county councils, there are fears that the budget is broken by all the needs that 80-plusers need to be met. Many of the needs could, if not completely prevented, at least be delayed and occur higher up the age range. Basic for people who have come up in the years is to still feel needed and not experience loneliness. This brings us to the second and third objectives of knowledge, competence and education, work, working conditions and so on. I have talked many times in this speaker's chair about how important it is that people who can and want to continue in working life higher up the age group have an opportunity to do so. There are studies that clearly show which ill health, non-need and loneliness can affect people if they are forced out of work and have nothing to replace it with. Promoting skills development, so that you can continue in the labour market higher up to the age group, is something that should be included in the texts on public health objectives. Of course, the working environment also comes in here, which is of course a matter for employers to take care of. Occupational health care comes in as an important player in this context. We call for more of these ideas to be developed. Then we are talking about income and livelihoods. We now have perhaps 300 000 people living below what the EU defines as the poverty threshold, with all that it means for the health of that generation. There is therefore a need for non-health care sectors to make efforts to provide employment opportunities, such as the Pensions Group, which is working for the development of our pensions. Accommodation and the surrounding environment are very important. It is important to be able to move somewhere where you can live with less risk of injury, with a network of people and do not need to feel alone. Stimulating senior homes, shelters and so on is an important health-promoting effort for this generation. Here the municipalities, builders and others outside the health care system itself have a great responsibility. When it comes to living habits, it is never too late to teach old dogs to sit. It is very important to look at alcohol habits, smoking habits, drug treatment and so on in this age group to avoid drug complications, alcohol harm and so on. And as I said, it's never too late to quit smoking. The seventh target area is Control, participation and influence. Combating ageism, age discrimination, comes in here as an important health-promoting factor. Finally, there is Objective 8 - Equal and health-promoting health care. The individual's needs should not be assessed on the basis of chronological age limits; it is the needs that should guide what efforts are being made. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation No 1, Health for the elderly.
i-8384a545c818b405-605	Mr President, I would like to In this last speech to the House of Parliament after almost 18 years, it feels very good to be able to talk about something that is important for everyone who lives in this country, namely how we feel, i.e. the health of the people, or as it is called in this context, public health. There is hardly any doubt that we who live and live in Sweden have drawn a prize ticket in the lottery of life. In most of the measurements and international comparisons made with regard to public health, together with the other Scandinavian countries, we are almost always at the top. However, there is still much to be done to ensure that well-being and good health are more equally distributed. Mr President, I would like to How we as politicians can create the conditions for everyone living in this country to have the opportunity to live a good life is one of the major and most comprehensive issues in society today. When Stefan Löfven stated in his first declaration of government this period that we will work long-term to remove the gaps that exist between people, it showed how prioritised this issue is on the government's agenda. The government's proposal that underpins what we are now dealing with highlights in particular that public health work is a responsibility for the whole of society – for the public, for the private, for the non-profit and, not least, for ourselves. At the state level, it is the Public Health Agency that receives the coordination responsibility for the work on the eight different target areas. It is about the right of all children to a good start in life, the importance of education for the whole population, work and good working conditions, income and livelihood, housing and the environment, living habits, control, influence and participation and, not least, an equal and health-promoting health care. Mr President, I would like to It is important to work on these issues in a structured way, and that is why this proposal is so important. But for me, it is above all about what kind of society we want. I looked up one of my first speeches, if not the first one, that I had in this House, and I wanted to quote a few parts of it to show that the battle over how we want to shape our society is not in any way new. So I quote myself some 18 years ago. The social democrats see the gaps in society. We see the need for me to be well-being, not less. But, Mr President, what conclusions do the Moderates draw? How do the Moderates want to fight for more justice and solidarity? We have here today received some of the answer: Lower the tax! – – In total, the Moderates want to reduce the tax by over SEK 80 billion in three years. It is sufficient for child benefit for all Swedish children for almost four years. Most commonly, those with the highest incomes and wealth earn most. It's a little comfortless to hear the Moderates' old tax choices over and over again. It is the same wise year in and year out: The tax burden is too high, and that would be the reason why Sweden is doing so badly. And if that, as it is now, goes well, then taxes are, of course, the reason why things are not going even better. No, as a social democrat and a folk dancer, I say: rather a social democratic welfare shamo than a moderate tax bencher's election. Mr President, I would like to One thing is certain; there will be a fierce political battle over the view of welfare and taxes in the coming years. On one side are the Moderates, the party of the rich, with large tax cuts, increased divisions and poorer welfare. On the other hand, the collective labour movement with the Social Democrats is at the forefront, where good quality, jointly funded welfare takes precedence over tax cuts for high-income workers. I look forward to that battle. ..................................................... As you will have noted, the speech could be made largely today. I wonder whether it could not even have been used in yesterday's party leader debate. The struggle over what society we want, one where we take care of each other or one where we have to take care of ourselves, seems eternal. The most effective thing we can do today for improved public health is not to let the citizens with the Swedish democrats go to power in the autumn elections. Some of them fought back when one of the best public health reforms of the 21st century, smoke-free in restaurants, was introduced. Now they want to increase the gaps in society by reducing the tax burden on the wealthy and at the same time reducing the compensation and increasing the tax burden on the sick and the unemployed – despite the fact that all research shows that public health is at its best in communities with small gaps, just as Anders W Jonsson and some of the previous speakers have emphasised. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. Now I will have the opportunity to spend much more time in my beautiful municipality of residence Nora. Living well is also important for public health, and I do. If you haven't visited Nora before, do it! I promise you won't be disappointed.
i-8384a545c818b405-621	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Axelsson for the invitation to Nora. Nevertheless, it is a bit sad to conclude the last debate by saying that the bourgeoisie only wants to reduce taxes and that if the bourgeoisie simply did not want to reduce taxes, everything would work so well. That's not how it works. Reality isn't that simple. We see, of course, that the health gaps have increased during this term of office and in previous terms of office when you have tried to break record in raising taxes. The question is, what are we spending taxpayers' money for? It is, of course, what effort we are making for the money that is crucial if we succeed in closing the health gap or not. We suggest more sports and health at school. Proven experience and knowledge show that this is important, especially for those with the worst health and for those boys with the worst educational outcomes. This doesn't cost any more. We do not need to raise or lower the tax in order to implement this reform; it is about re-prioritising the resources we use. If you have lower education you also have worse health and more often suffer from cancer. You are investing a lot of money in fighting breast cancer, but you are betting it so that it does not help those who are most at risk of suffering from breast cancer. It takes more tax money and it doesn't have a better effect. What concrete proposals do you have – and do not talk about tax increases or reductions – that improve the health of those who have the greatest needs?
i-8384a545c818b405-627	Mr President, I would like to I think we should start somewhere where Emma Henriksson was during part of the speech, and that is at school. I am absolutely convinced that using the resources that are available wisely will mean that more children, who are entitled to a good start in life, could get this, but then we need to talk about what resources are available and how we make sure that they are there and placed in the right place. Of course it's about taxes – it's obvious. Now we can get very far in this debate, and I realise that I invited you to do so. During this parliamentary term, we have ensured that there are resources so that we can strengthen welfare in many different areas. Health care is one example, and the school is another. There are now far more employees – teachers and other staff – who can provide support to students who need help in order to move forward. We had a discussion at the beginning of the parliamentary term on these very issues. Then we were in a position where we had to take over and lay 60 billion back. Now there are 50 billion to be used wisely to strengthen welfare. Not least when it comes to the elderly, which Mr Westerholm so eloquently talked about, we have invested a number of billions to do well to grow up here but also to make it possible for us to end our lives in a dignified way. How much tax do you think you can spare, Emma Henriksson?
i-8384a545c818b405-632	Mr President, I would like to Above all, it is our responsibility to use taxpayers' money, which we have the privilege of managing, because that is actually what it is all about. Let us never forget that it is not our money. It is the money of others – our common money – that we as politicians have to manage. We have to use them wisely. During our years in the alliance government, we succeeded in two things. We reduced taxes so that the individual got more money left in his wallet, but in such a way that tax revenues to the state increased. This enabled us to provide more resources to the health sector than ever before. It was not only more money because the economy is growing and we are getting more, but actually more per person and citizen. We made sure there were more hands in more parts of the care. It is about managing the money well and doing the right things with them. That is why, in this area, we have concrete proposals that have an impact on, for example, the cancer care of those women who are most at risk of dying of breast cancer. We don't tell everyone that mammography is free, but instead we say: Who doesn't go to mammography? How can we direct our efforts so that they begin to go there? Because it is with mammography that one can detect the cancer early and ensure that one gets care and can survive and spend the latter part of life – old age – in dignity, healthy from one's cancer. Just spending money and taking more and more money from taxpayers and using it incorrectly will not lead to better care. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats still believe in their own theory that we destroyed welfare. It is you who have extended the queues, Lennart Axelsson. You're the one who's making the divides grow.
i-8384a545c818b405-638	Mr President, I would like to We talked about divides before. One of the most important things that a welfare society can do to ensure that gaps do not grow is to have a social security system that means that if you become ill, unemployed or similar, you have the opportunity to concentrate on getting well and rather try to find a new job. Then you don't have to worry about whether you're going to get it going every month. There has been a great battle, and you, as a group of parties, have reduced opportunities for people. Not only do they get sick and out of work-- they're gonna get poor too. It doesn't help to shake your head, because that's the way it is. Now there are proposals – I do not know if it is gathered from all alliance parties. Some have said that they intend to increase the tax on sick and early retirement, for example, which we reduced during part of their term of office. That is exactly the battle I told you about in my speech. What society do we want? Do we want a society in which we must ensure that we obtain the insurance cover we need in order to be able to cope if something unforeseen happens, or should we manage it together through society? It is not utopia that we can have a society that enables us as individuals to survive if something unforeseen happens. I am also on the Nordic Council. In principle, all countries in Scandinavia have built up their systems in such a way that we take care of each other.
i-8384a545c818b405-642	Mr President, I would like to I thought for a while that the Centre Party representatives here in the speaker's chair had got the wrong script. It is not often one hears one's leftist talk so committed about the importance of the growing divides in society. It is positive if this insight has landed with the bourgeois representatives. Preventing ill health is, of course, the best thing, both for society as a whole and for the individual. A developed public health policy should therefore, I believe, be at the top of the agenda for all parties and governments. What are the avoidable factors that politics can change so that ill health does not occur? Several of the speakers have talked about the use of drugs such as alcohol and tobacco. We know that they are a major part of the causes of ill health. Inadequate physical activity and poor eating habits have also been mentioned by several, and that is quite correct. We often talk about the causes of ill health, but this has already been done by several others. I would therefore like to highlight some other elements which, when we are talking about public health issues, are not usually addressed and mentioned very much. I want to connect to something. Emma Henriksson began by saying that we have been better off, but still the gaps in the group affected by ill health are increasing. I think there were more people who said that. Then there has been a debate on taxes, and I would like to contribute to it. One should know that the proportion of the total value of production that went to build up this society and the general one increased throughout the 20th century until the end of the 1970s. Then came neoliberalism in the late 70s and early 80s, and since then the trend has gone the other way. At the beginning of the 20th century, about 30 per cent of the value of production fell to the general level, and at the end of the 70's it was 70 per cent. Now we are back, and it is now 30% of the value of production that goes to the public and the public. This is a major cause of ill health. I would like to mention a few other examples. Traffic is a major cause of ill health. High levels of nitrogen oxides are considered to be a major public health hazard. An even greater problem is the particles formed in the internal combustion engines. Also, particles are formed when using studded tyres, and they are also considered to be a health hazard. The fact that the exhaust gases of vehicles – both diesel and petrol engines – can be converted into ozone during sunny days is also a health hazard. And traffic noise is not just sleep-disrupting, with the health problems it can cause. Research is now clear that noise also increases the number of cardiovascular diseases. In the bill, the Government uses the formulation of avoidable health gaps. I think that all of us who have been politicians for quite some time, and have been at different levels of society, know how difficult it is with information to influence people's behaviour. The knowledge of the health hazards of tobacco, which has been mentioned by previous speakers, as well as the risks of alcohol and the importance of exercise and eating well, we all know that it is of great importance. Unfortunately, however, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's campaigns on diet and good habits, which have returned for decades, have not produced the effects that I believe we would all have wanted. Most people probably know that they should change their habits. But it's not that easy to do it. I believe that the ability of politics to inform people with knowledge so that we can have a healthier society is not really as great as we would like. I suppose it is, among other things, the experience of many of these campaigns that has led the policy to resort, for example, to excise duties in an attempt to make it less attractive to use, for example, tobacco and alcohol, and which is also responsible for subsidising health care during working hours. The Danish sugar tax I think has the same background – unhealthy choices should cost. Politics can also ban, but it often leads to a crisis. I myself have experience of this problem when, at the beginning of my time here in Parliament, I tried to get a ban on trans fats in food, according to a Danish model. It wasn't easy. Politics did not listen to the facts, but it was the business community that went ahead and arranged this. But the ill health caused by traffic emissions can be affected in other ways than by persuasion and information. Of course, some may be about changing behaviour in traffic. But there are also concrete measures that policy can take by building communities where public transport and walking and cycling are given priority over cars. Then the unhealthy emissions are reduced. More noise protection can be built than today. Lower speed where people are staying lowers the sound level. The long-distance heavy goods vehicles can be banned from driving all the way to the shops of the communities and where people live and instead arrange transhipment systems with fixed routes into the built-up areas with smaller and quieter electric vehicles. This has been tried in Växjö, for example. This is within Objective 5. Another example, which is also in Objective 5 of this report, is the source of ill-health which I think is most important to highlight, namely our schools and housing. Good health is built from the beginning. It is therefore a clear issue for children's rights. Then one can say that it is about target area 1, the conditions of early life. Do you know that almost half of all children in our schools today have asthma-like symptoms that can be linked to the fact that children spend much of the day in bad indoor environments? Researchers even claim that it can be 90 percent of the day that many children live indoors. The child's room in a dwelling is usually the smallest room and the worst ventilated. Pre-school and school premises are usually not ventilated at all according to the number of children and adults present in the premises. Most safety representatives around the country are aware of a number of schools in their respective municipalities that should be closed due to inappropriate indoor environments. You have probably heard about the concept of sick houses, which are often linked to moisture damage due to poor building solutions. But we also have major problems with chemicals in materials that are used both in construction and interior design, which marry well with each other and form unhealthy substances. Fashion is often a health threat. Technological developments in the sector are therefore moving too fast, and we are not trying to get there properly. There are no full-scale experiments with the environments that we are building. There are many things that are workable here by tackling the building fraud and tightening up the building rules. Politics could do a great deal. Unfortunately, however, these things are being ignored, because there are such great economic interests at stake. They would rather sacrifice the health of those who have the misfortune of working or living in unhealthy premises. Why is this relevant to the report we are debating? I have shown that this belongs in a number of these target areas. Well, it is because the measures proposed by the government aim to close the avoidable health gaps within a generation. If we do not take into account the great differences in environmental conditions that we actually have in our country, it is impossible to close these gaps. The large health-related differences for children are very much influenced by the environment in which children grow up. You could call it class divides. Children sharing a poorly ventilated bedroom, which is also walled by an older bathroom, are much more likely to suffer from concentration difficulties, and thus problems in school, of annoying itching, and thus problems in school, of stuffy nose, and thus problems in school, of heavy breathing, and thus problems in school, of runny eyes and of other asthma-like symptoms that make them unable to concentrate when they come to school. These children have far greater problems with this than children who have their own bedroom that is well ventilated and is not close to a wet room. Moreover, the small bedroom that two children share is often close to a busy street. Then there are the difficulties caused by the noise and pollution caused by traffic. Unfortunately, it is also the case that the children who live in these environmentally worst homes more often go to schools with major moisture and mould problems. During my years in Parliament, by organising seminars here in Parliament with researchers from several different countries, with researchers from Swedish companies and with people who work with these issues in different ways – at universities, in companies and in municipal environmental administrations – I have tried to raise awareness among your politicians here in Parliament about the problems of unhealthy indoor environments. Unfortunately, the interest over the years has been very meagre. Mr President, I would like to I wanted to focus on this because I understood that others would talk most about alcohol, tobacco, diet and exercise. But I think these are issues that we need to address if we are to have a chance to close these health gaps. Because it is very much about class divisions. You can easily put it that way. But I have tried to clearly describe what is actually expressed in physical form in our society, so that it can be processed. As a representative of one of the government parties, I naturally support the proposal in the report and reject the motions, although there is a great deal more that I think could be filled with a developed public health policy. Nor, of course, do I have anything against the announcement made by the committee. Mr President, I would like to This is my last debate on reports in this House. After 14 years as a Member of the Swedish Parliament, it feels pretty good to be able to conclude a debate on this kind of report which, as the previous speaker mentioned, ties in with what I started with, namely the importance of the environment for public health. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the Chamber Office. I am thinking in particular of the protocol notes, which I think are doing a fantastic job in silence. I really like their work. During my parliamentary years, I have mainly been a member of the Civil Committee and of the Social Affairs Committee. But it is actually as a member of the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council that I have worked the longest during my time in Parliament. I would therefore like to express my special thanks to the civil committee's office, the Social Affairs Committee's office and the Parliament's international office. I would also like to thank my elected colleagues, who are constantly struggling to nurture the democratic heritage that we have to manage together.
i-8384a545c818b405-677	Mr President, I would like to I thought that Jan Lindholm's last debate would also include a final change of line. As I have said in my speech and also in my previous line shift, it is absolutely crucial for us Christian Democrats that we are careful about how we use taxpayers' money. I do not doubt the commitment to reducing the health gaps that exist in the various parties, whether we belong to the same bloc or not, but I am concerned about how the government chooses to prioritise its efforts. Now Jan Lindholm was only partly concerned with traffic, but I would still like to ask Jan Lindholm questions about the budget priority that the government has done and where, over a three-year period, from this year, it is decided to spend 1 billion on subsidising electric bicycles. Mr President, I would like to Don't get me wrong. I love my bike. I bought it on Blocket and didn't get any subsidy for it, but it's really smooth and great. Even when you buy a used electric bike, however, it is insanely expensive. We know that ill-health, which has been the focus of the debate today, is at its worst for those with the worst economy – those with low education and low income. E-bike is something you can afford to buy if you have a pretty good economy. You will receive 25% refund from the state up to SEK 10,000. It's a pretty expensive bike from the start. Is it the right priority, if we are to invest in those who have the biggest health shortages, to invest 1 billion in people who already have a fairly good income and pretty good conditions to get where they need to go in a more healthy way?
i-8384a545c818b405-681	Mr President, I would like to That was an unexpected question. I would never get an e-bike myself, because I think the first priority when it comes to cycling is the exercise you get. So I think it's e-bike cheating. However, we are talking about a few different things. This initiative is not in the field of public health, but in another area. I touched on it in part when I talked about how we can improve the environment and mentioned building cities where cycling is a priority and rebuilding communities. This is done in many places around the world; I have been and seen many large cities where they have managed to reduce car traffic precisely by prioritising cycling. But this is another part of politics. Sweden is a rich country, as we often point out in this House, and we, together with some other rich countries – the Nordic countries and perhaps Germany, in the first place – have the role of leading the way in the transition. The United States is also one of those countries where you can afford to go ahead. It is the rich who have to start consuming new technologies in order for it to eventually become affordable for all. For example, we have seen that the decommissioning of nuclear power now seems to have led to a radical fall in the prices of solar cells. Today, almost anyone can install solar cells on their house in Sweden – and even reach profitability. That's because someone's gone ahead. Now this is not my policy area at all with traffic, but I see this as a measure we are taking in Sweden to help finance a technological development that over time can probably become quite popular.
i-8384a545c818b405-685	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are floating out in other policy areas depends on the nature of public health. We cannot solve public health within the remit of the Committee on Social Affairs, because, first and foremost, these are the areas that will deal with the problems when they arise. If we are to ensure that children do not move too little, it is about parental support, which may fall partly within the remit of our committee, but above all it is about school support in the form of what we Christian Democrats have proposed: more sport and health at school and that you have movement as an activity every day. It is within the remit of the Education Committee. Ensuring that better housing is built, as the honourable Member was concerned, is within the remit of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. A great deal of this therefore falls within the remit of other committees. Nevertheless, I ask the question about electric bicycles because it is such a big investment. Many times when I have mentioned this, people think that it surely cannot be very much money compared to what other things cost. They are amazed when they hear that it is 1 billion that the government spends on people who have already done well. We also choose to invest in cycling in our budget, but we choose to invest in infrastructure – so that you come out with your bike. Then it does not matter whether it is electric or not; it is equally possible to cycle on the bike paths if you have bought a used bike for a small money. More people will benefit from it. The problem with the government's priorities is precisely that these are not smart priorities. I mentioned, for example, earlier in the debate, this by tackling breast cancer, where the government has spent a great deal of money – driven by the Left Party – on an effort that does not touch the breast cancer of those who are most at risk, because those people do not go on mammography to the same extent. So what is the government's priority?
i-8384a545c818b405-689	Mr President, I would like to I thought I answered that question in my first reply: It is to help stimulate technology development. When Emma Henriksson says that we should give the wrong priority and not take responsibility for the money for which we are responsible, I would just like to inform the House once again that during the time of the alliance, I believe, the money was used very badly. They sold out Vin & Sprit AB, for example, and with that money they would amortise – which they did. It was just that the profit was about 5 billion higher per year than the fall in interest rates. So they threw away 5 billion for the treasury, every year. There would have been a lot of money today if you had kept it. They chose to implement a property tax change and introduce a property fee that meant that those who have larger properties here in the Stockholm area suddenly got 5 000 SEK more in their pocket every month because the property tax is so much lower than the property tax. It does not seem to me to be using public money properly, but I really think it is wasting the money. Emma Henriksson said in a previous change of line that more money was raised with her tax policy, and so I would like to point out that the number of people in public welfare decreased during the eight years of the alliance government. This applies to both those who worked in public services and those who worked in public-funded private care. They decreased by 41⁄2 per cent. We have succeeded in restoring this. We even have more employees per thousand inhabitants today than it was when you started to demolish welfare when you took over 2006, Emma Henriksson. I think it is we who are using the money responsibly, and I think it is you who are using it in an irresponsible way.
i-8384a545c818b405-695	Mr President, I would like to We now have a generation of young girls where a lot of people are afraid when they get off the bus at night and look over their shoulder. They are afraid when they go to a festival like Summerburst this weekend because they are afraid to be molested or, unfortunately, even subjected to sexual violence. Working towards this requires a wide range of actions. One thing that is very important is to invest in the police and the judiciary. The government has not done that at all as it should have. It's the other way around. If you read and see what it has invested in, 6 per cent of all expenditure increases that Stefan Löfven has put forward have gone to building subsidies that we know to a large extent go straight into the developer's pockets, but only 3 per cent have gone to the police and the judiciary. My simple question to Stefan Löfven is: Why has the government invested twice as much building subsidies in the four years you have been responsible for instead of ensuring the safety of Swedish young girls?
i-8384a545c818b405-698	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to answer that. We need more housing in Sweden. But we're also putting a lot of money into the police. We have provided the Police Authority with more resources than the Agency itself requested. Unlike the previous government, we have made sure to get proper progress in training to the police. We need to educate more people, and it takes time. When we took over, the annual rate was 500, 600 admissions to police training. Now it's twice the rate, because we need more cops. Now the police see that there are more of them. Now they see that they can increase for the first time in a long time. We need to do even more and make sure that more cops stay. That is why we in the mission to the Police Authority were very clear: now that you get so much money, we want you to improve conditions so that more people stay and more people come back. Now we also see that the recruitment to the Police Authority from those who have left the profession looks quite successful. We need to do more. We're gonna have more cops.
i-8384a545c818b405-700	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. The fact remains that twice as much has been spent on building subsidies in your four years as on police and justice. For example, in the 2016 budget bill, there was not a single investment in the police force, which is remarkable. Nevertheless, I would like an answer to the question why you have given priority to building subsidies before the safety of young girls in Sweden. I hope that the Prime Minister will not draw a response about the deficit in a recession or prosperity in relation to reduced taxes, which is often the answer. Answer the question straight and clear!
i-8384a545c818b405-702	Mr President, I would like to Now I choose how I answer. We give priority to both housing construction and police. It's important. Young people should also have an opportunity to move out, move away from home and grow up. We have also had a deficit in housing construction under the previous bourgeois government. Housing construction is now increasing, and that is very good. Part of this is to ensure that there are rental apartments so that young people can move away from home to reasonable rental levels. But the police are a priority and will continue to be a priority.
i-8384a545c818b405-705	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! We had a party leader debate yesterday. I then put a question to the Prime Minister on the amnesty of 9 000 Afghan men who lack protection. The Prime Minister was not quite clear in his reply. I asked him to explain how such a priority could be made. He didn't justify it. He started talking about humanism. Mr President, I would like to I have to ask myself the question: am I the one who has misunderstood something? I have to ask the Prime Minister: what kind of humanism is it when you take money from disabled children and spend it on people from other countries who do not have protection needs? What kind of humanism is it when you don't make sure to fix the holes in welfare and let people die while waiting for the care they need, and instead they spend the money on people who don't need protection being able to stay in Sweden? What kind of humanism is that, Stefan Löfven?
i-8384a545c818b405-708	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it's not an amnesty. It is a temporary limited measure that I think is still right to do. I'll take care of it. It has to do with humanism. I still wonder if Åkesson has Googled the word, as I asked Åkesson to do yesterday. We make the biggest investment in welfare in many years. We do that because we can afford it. We will ensure that we have the necessary tax revenue. We do not, like the Swedish Democrats, intend to reduce taxes by 35 billion, and we do not intend to deduct about 12 billion from county councils and municipalities. We do not intend to allow welfare companies to make unlimited profits and to withdraw even more money from the welfare sector. This is how you make sure you provide the welfare sector with funds. That's what we're going to do. This is a priority. Swedish welfare holds. Swedish welfare will last. But that means choosing a path. That is why this autumn we are holding a referendum on Swedish welfare. Now we have a choice to make. Mine is clear, and I'm going to stand by it. We will ensure that the school, health care, care and social security are up to date. This is particularly true when we now face the turmoil we can see in the outside world with concerns in the area of trade and Brexit. Then it is important to have a very strong economy. Now we have worked up such a strong economy, a substantial surplus. It's been a long time since we had it. Now we have the muscles. Then it is important to make sure that it is used properly and continue to develop well-being. Keep Sweden from the so-called verige-democratic experiment of once again starting to lower taxes, and again lowering taxes most for those who already earn the most. That would be an unfortunate development. Now make sure that we use the economic strength so that Swedish welfare can develop. That's what we're gonna do.
i-8384a545c818b405-716	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome the Prime Minister's idea that the elections should be a referendum on welfare. You can't have everything. As long as I have been present in this House, I have argued that the great mass immigration of both social-democratic and bourgeois governments over the last few decades is against our ability to maintain and develop welfare. It becomes so clear when it comes to the Afgha namenamesty that Stefan Lövven's government also chooses to prioritise people from other countries over welfare. Stefan Löfven stands here and says: Our well-being lasts. Our welfare works. It doesn't. It is evident that disabled children do not receive the assistance they need. It is evident that people are dying in care queues in Sweden today. You stand here bragging, Stefan Löfven, but it's a false boast. You've completely failed with the welfare.
i-8384a545c818b405-719	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not bragging. I think we should stick to the truth. We'll stick to the facts. At some point there must be sense and balance in this discussion as well. Swedish healthcare is one of the best in the world. Here, lots of health care staff make an amazing contribution. The Swedish democrats with others sound like Swedish health care has been completely destroyed. It's not like that. Let us keep a balance in this. We have several care queues that are actually shortened. We want to continue that work. Åkesson sounds like he thinks it is very important that we develop welfare. But the fact remains, Åkesson: You are prepared to reduce taxes by 35 billion. In your budget, you deduct 12 billion net from municipalities and county councils. How much more well-being does it bring? You weren't prepared to even limit welfare companies' profits. You've been fighting so they can take as much out as possible. Of this there will be no welfare, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-8384a545c818b405-724	Mr President, I would like to I listened to the duel between Stefan Löfven and Jimmie Åkesson, and I find it fascinating that in a debate that should be about strong and clear values in terms of human dignity and how people are viewed, the Prime Minister returns to debate tax cuts versus welfare. I don't think it's worthy. Sweden is an open country where free trade, international cooperation and globalisation make us strong. But a pressured Social Democracy has portrayed labour migration as one of the major threats in the Swedish labour market. I think it's important to come up with some facts. Labour immigration accounts for 0.3 per cent of employment in Sweden. This year 235 cleaners have come to Sweden from overseas countries. They have become employed by entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who value their skills and their workforce. I think they are welcome, and I think they are doing great work. The Prime Minister portrays them as a problem on the Swedish labour market. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Does he think that Sweden would be a better country if these 235 cleaners had stayed at home?
i-8384a545c818b405-728	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Annie Lööf thinks it is a problem that we are discussing tax cuts in relation to welfare. With a bourgeois alternative, including the Swedish Democrats, who want to remove nearly 100 billion in tax revenue, there will be problems. But the problem isn't mine, it's Annie Lööf to explain how it's connected. It's not a valuation discussion, it's a cold fact. That is what I intend to say, because this is the path that Swedish politics is facing. As far as labour migration is concerned, we have said that we need to have one to Sweden. We have a lot of professions, professions and categories that we cannot support ourselves. The labour force is not within the borders of our country. Then, of course, we will make it easier for companies, public authorities and public services, by ensuring that it is here. However, where there is no shortage, I do not think it makes sense for labour immigration. We have some of these people within the borders of the country; we ourselves have the long-term unemployed who would need a first step into the labour market. Then I think that, for example, the profession of cleaners is perfectly suitable for some people. We saw in a television report a month ago a Kurdish woman who had now got her first job. And how proud she was! Her daughters said, "My mother goes to work." I'm so proud! She lives in such an area that is a bit problematic. We have several such examples, where people who are here in Sweden can take these jobs. Then I find it illogical that we should bring people from the other side of the world. There's no logic in that, and I'm holding on to that.
i-8384a545c818b405-733	Mr President, I would like to Sweden would thus have been a better country if these 235 cleaners had not come to Sweden but had stayed home in their home countries. That is the answer of the Social Democrats and the Prime Minister to my question. It is clear that the Prime Minister is under pressure. Instead of making the concrete changes that would be needed to lower thresholds so that more people will get into work, he accuses the small labour migration that Sweden has for the big problem in the labour market. We see a wasted boom and hear a bad rhetoric that puts tax cuts against welfare. In the years 2006 – 2014 we showed that we can both reduce taxes and invest more in welfare. We now see weak leadership as well. For me, the answer is simple, but I would still like to ask the Prime Minister: is the problem in the labour market really the 235 foreign cleaners, or is the problem a Social Democratic Prime Minister?
i-8384a545c818b405-737	Mr President, I would like to That was a rhetorical question. It's not even serious. We say this: It is not a question of whether Sweden would have been a better country. We need to be pragmatic here. The manpower we need to bring into the country, we'll have in. We'll make that easier. If we can do even more to make business easier – let's do it! But if it is about the labour force that we already have in the country, there is no logic. In addition to this: Unlike under the bourgeois government, when it was thought that reduced taxes were the solution but brought about higher unemployment, we now see that unemployment is falling. It also sinks among the new arrivals. The establishment process is faster and faster. Now we're up to 15,000 people working in extra services. Many of these are new arrivals. The parties have agreed on start-up jobs. They have an ambition of 10,000. That'll be 25,000 together. We have the state-of-the-art standby jobs, which are a few thousand. Then we are up to 27 000 – and so on, and so on. That's how you put puzzles, make sure people get into work and make sure they can also make it decent wages.
i-8384a545c818b405-743	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The legislation on personal assistance, LSS, is a welfare legislation, which ultimately involves that even those who have the misfortune of being born with a disability or having it by accident during life should be able to live as full a life as possible. If possible, you should be able to work, study, socialize with your friends and live in your own home. I think this is a fine piece of legislation. It is also about what kind of country Sweden is. We are a country that wants us to live as equally as possible. Assistance legislation is therefore important to defend. It's important that the court is unengraved. Unfortunately, however, what we have seen in recent years are many examples of the opposite. It depends essentially on two things. These are, in part, a number of judgments in different judicial bodies which, by harsh judgment, have deprived individuals of their right to assistance in whole or in part. This is also due to pressure on cutbacks, which have been seen in regulatory letters to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and in directives for investigations. For individuals, this has an enormous impact. That may be the difference between being able to live a dignified life and not being able to do so. Often it is the family that takes the fall. Whole families go into the wall when you day and night are going to try to do the job that you no longer get community support for. For others, waiting for re-examinations, this is a constant source of concern. This has to change. We must have legislation that works. The original intentions, which are so good, must be fulfilled. But that has not happened. The government hasn't changed the law, although it's urgent. It has not been clearly signalled to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that anyone who really needs assistance should receive it. When will you change your mind? When should assistance legislation be allowed to function as intended again?
i-8384a545c818b405-748	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Jonas Sjöstedt's view: the people who need support in society should have it. The law is a law of rights. Not a letter has been changed in the law. It is true, however, that there have been a number of judgments. Jonas Sjöstedt is well aware of, for example, the judgment on the waiting period and whether or not it should count. There are other such judgments that one might find strange. But that's what it looks like. This – that we can have such judgments – says in itself that the current legislation is not good enough. That is why the government urgently ensured that there was a moratorium so that there would be no more re-examinations that would cause more people to suffer. That is why we should ensure that new legislation is in place. It will be a law of rights, and it has been declared by the Government responsible. That's how our society is supposed to work. Then we do not get away from everyone having to see that, unfortunately, in this sector too, there are things that are cheating and even criminal. We must also deal with this, because every penny of tax will go to what it is intended to do. We're gonna stand up for that. People's right to support and help when they need it will remain, so the law needs to be reviewed. But you don't snap your fingers and change the law, because then it can be just as wrong again. You have to take the time to investigate what the law should look like in real life so that it becomes sustainable, long-term and as sure as it can be. In anticipation of that, the government adopted the moratorium, so now there is a stop to reconsideration until we have sorted this out and got a new law in place.
i-8384a545c818b405-754	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate what the Prime Minister says, but unfortunately that is not true of what the government has done. Many lost their assistance before the moratorium, and they are in this difficult situation today. The judges have called for changes to the legislation, and this could have been done urgently. But they chose not to. The pressure on cuts has been there through regulatory letters and investigation directives. In fact, it is the government's responsibility that this has deteriorated as badly as it has done for many individuals and their families. For the Left Party, personal assistance is a right. Of course, cheating should be combated. We will remove the interest in profit in personal assistance. You should have the right to choose your assistant in every situation, but we should not have rogue players who take out profits. The entire assistance should become a state responsibility so that it becomes equal throughout Sweden. We shall ensure that those who do this important work receive better vocational training. This is the future – not this constant cutback pressure that hits individuals so hard.
i-8384a545c818b405-758	Mr President, I would like to There was a little logical twist there for Sjöstedt. Yes, of course these judges came before the moratorium-- that's why the moratorium was introduced. When we see that there are judgments that have such consequences, the government reacts, and that is why the moratorium is being introduced. It can't be the other way around. It takes some time to review how this law is to be changed. You could change the law once a quarter, but that's not a good solution. Let us now see to it what is actually sustainable in the long term so that we can guarantee that those in need of help will get it. Obviously, the current law is not good enough for that, and then we will make sure that we agree to change the law so that it does. People who need help should also have help.
i-8384a545c818b405-761	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister said national crisis. National crisis – that was his words when he was an opposition leader and 13 per cent of the students in grade 9 were failing. Then it was an alliance government, and then it was a national crisis. Now 171⁄2 percent are failing. There have never been so many failed students in grade 9, and now the Prime Minister chooses not to use the kind of words he used before. I guess everyone's gonna have to think about why. But the words are not central, but the important thing is what we do. There are many reasons why there are so many failings, but one of them is that in many schools there is a lack of order and study in the classrooms. It is a lack of security, it is bullying, a threat, a language that is often unacceptable – it is gross and offensive – pure violence sometimes, messy, late arrivals, truancy and so on, that is, all that we can label as a lack of order and studyo. It is clear that we need to do much more in this area in Sweden. We did a great deal on the side of the alliance government, but one important step that we were preparing was to introduce an opportunity to give grades of order in high school and high school. It was done, and we went to elections on it in 2014. But then you took over and decided to scrap it. Most of us comparable countries in the world have a range of order ratings or reviews, and we used to have them ourselves. We are now resubmitting these proposals, and you say no. Nevertheless, I must put the question to the Prime Minister in the light of the situation we have with regard to school order and peace of mind: what is wrong with the certificate of order?
i-8384a545c818b405-765	Mr President, I would like to I can answer that right away. Profession and research say that is not the solution. A large part of the problem when I said it was a national crisis was the fact that the bourgeois government had chosen to lower the tax 13 times more than was invested in the school. There were fewer adults in school, and that was not good. Now we add a lot of resources to the school, so now we have 28 000 more employees in Swedish education. That's good. More adults are needed, and more teachers are needed. That's why we're doing a good job of teaching. We need to increase the number of places in teacher training, improve the quality of teacher training, improve the conditions for teachers and their ability to run professional educational activities themselves, and we need less governance. Then we choose to listen to the profession. I think it's wise. Björklund in all honour, but you don't have all the answers, but sometimes it's actually those who work with this that might even have the wiser answers, although Björklund probably doesn't. But that's how it works. For us, it is important for the school to have resources in the form of more teachers, more adults – teachers' assistants for that matter too. We will make sure to support children from a very young age by learning to read, write and count. We need to discover them early – we cannot have the same as today that most individual contributions come in grades 7 and 8 and, above all, in grade 9. This may be necessary, but it would be better if you received more individual support in grade 1, grade 2 and grade 3. More support and a safer way through comprehensive school mean that more people actually pass comprehensive school in such a way that they enter a national programme at upper secondary school. I fully agree that it is not in any way okay that so many people do not pass primary school, but we will also see that a large part of this group are those who have come late to Sweden. It does not exclude our responsibility, but we need to see where we are going to put the stakes.
i-8384a545c818b405-769	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who investigated the proposal for a certificate and presented it – then the election came and the proposal was put in the drawer – was Metta Fjelkner. She was the former chairman of the National Federation of Teachers. Isn't that the profession? The teachers' union is probably part of the profession. There are certainly differences of opinion depending on who you listen to. The National Agency of Education said no. It was Anna Ekström who was Director General, and they said no, I know that. But I think there are different opinions within the faculty as well. Finally, we are responsible. It is not only possible to say that we are doing this because someone else is saying it, and then we have 171⁄2% that are failing. You can update your points of speech when it comes to an important thing, Stefan Löfven. I have heard Stefan Löfven say that there were fewer employees in school during our time, but there were 10,000 more employees in the school system – preschool, upper secondary school and primary school – during the eight years of alliance. There were 10,000 more. Stop saying there were fewer, because that's a lie.
i-8384a545c818b405-773	Mr President, I would like to We can stop arguing about this, but whether or not we should have more resources for school. That's what we're betting on. We need more resources for school. It is about teachers but also about school libraries, school health care and teacher assistants. The common denominator is more resources for school. We have made the biggest investment in school in many, many years, and we intend to continue to do so, because I think it is more important than reducing taxes.
i-8384a545c818b405-775	Mr President, I would like to Mattias has a disability and cannot speak for himself. When he gets pneumonia and has difficulty breathing, he goes to the hospital. It gives a decision on so-called treatment restriction. Care should now not, as it used to do, try to save his life if he gets worse – everything according to Ekot's review. Mattias's mother takes a fight, but it takes a day and a half before another doctor reverses the decision, which IVO's expert said was premature and wrong. Mattias was happy to celebrate his 30th birthday, but it feels like a lottery, says his mother. This is an example of the deeply worrying review carried out by Ecott of shortcomings regarding decisions on treatment restrictions in healthcare. The review shows that the lives of vulnerable and fragile persons are actually at risk. It is life-changing decisions and must not be wrong, but the review shows serious shortcomings. The decision to refuse life-support treatments is made without prior consultation with patients and without informing relatives. In one fifth of the cases examined, no justification is given even though this should always be the case. Patients are confused. Doctors save lives by trying out wrong decisions. This threatens trust in health care. What may be most worrying is that the review reveals indications of a slippage that threatens the principle of human dignity, and disabled and elderly people are valued differently. People's qualities play a role in decisions of this kind about life and death.
i-8384a545c818b405-780	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I cannot comment on an individual case. I think Forssmed understands that. I don't know anything about the individual case, but what I do know is that people should have care when they need it. That is a fundamental principle. What happens at every given moment that doctors or other medical personnel make decisions I cannot answer, but the care should be there when you need it. That is why we have given a great deal of time to Swedish health care. It has been a long time since Swedish health care received so much resources, and it must continue to receive it. Only in the few four years that I have been head of government has 13,000 more been employed in health care. It's to make it easier for health workers. We need more doctors, nurses, nurses and specialist nurses. That is why we are increasing education. Although our health care is one of the best in the world, we have different challenges. The common denominator is, in my view, the need for more staff. As for whether there may be a need for further discussion on ethical review and ethics in the course of review, we should of course be open to it, but there we also have bodies to constantly discuss what the assessments should look like. They should be the best at deciding, but there is no doubt that the basic principle of the Swedish welfare society is that when you need care you should receive care.
i-8384a545c818b405-783	Mr President, I would like to I gave an example from an examination of hundreds of cases. It's been on the air for days. The Prime Minister may have heard that. I'm sure he'll listen to Ekott. With regard to these treatment restrictions, Yngve Gustafson, professor of geriatrics, believes that older people are discriminated against and are wrongly denied life-support treatment. If it sneaks into thinking that means that we value man according to his qualities and not because he needs care, it is not the resources that are the problem. Then it is the ethical compass that needs to be put right. The government has a responsibility there, of course. If there is the slightest truth in the Ekot review, if they are right at all, then we cannot wait another day to ensure that this does not occur and to tighten up the rules and review the legislation. We need to see if this can be true.
i-8384a545c818b405-787	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why I said that if we need to have a discussion on ethical review in relation to different situations in healthcare, then let us have it. We already have bodies for this. There are forums for such discussions. Let us bring such a discussion to the fore. The basic principle in Sweden should be that when you need care you should get it. But what is to be done at any given time must the profession take a stand on. I'm open to a discussion about what's right or not. But I'm not going to go on about judging what's right at any given time.
i-8384a545c818b405-790	Mr President, I would like to Last week, the Pensions Agency produced a report showing that 245 000 pensioners have low economic standards. And a dominant proportion of them, namely 162 000, are women. We also receive reports that Sweden has a higher proportion of relatively poor pensioners than our Nordic neighbours. It is unreasonable that people who have worked their whole lives and who have contributed to society are forced to live under scarce economic circumstances. We agree on some important changes for long-term sustainable pensions in the Pensions Group. But my question to the Prime Minister is: What measures does the government intend to take to ensure that ordinary people receive a reasonable and secure pension?
i-8384a545c818b405-793	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the most important issues we have before us, Teresa Carvalho. We will ensure that the people who have been involved in building our country can live in security, also financially, during old age. That is why we have now taken the first steps to remove the unfairly higher taxation of pensions compared to wages. It is unrighteous, and it must be removed. Then we have also been able to reduce the tax on those with the absolute lowest incomes. As has been pointed out, the Pensions Group agrees that we should also strengthen basic protection. In addition, we want to make sure to raise, even for those who have worked a long working life and who still have too low pensions. That is what we propose, and we will have to include it in the Pensions Group. We must continue in this way. I believe that in the long term we must do even more with the pension system, so that everyone who becomes a pensioner knows that they can do so with financial security.
i-8384a545c818b405-797	Mr President, I would like to During the month of May we have seen record temperatures in Sweden. Drought causes major problems throughout society. We see an unusual number of forest fires. In agriculture, crops are in danger of drying up, and animals must be slaughtered in an emergency. Heavy heat waves can also lead to increased mortality, mainly among the elderly and the sick. It is not possible to link a single heat wave to climate change. But this type of extreme weather will become more common in the future.
i-8384a545c818b405-800	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that many people are thinking about exactly the questions that Maria Ferm is asking here. It has been an unusually warm early summer. Sometimes you can enjoy the warmth, but I think you're thinking a lot of time about what's wrong here, really. You don't just enjoy it. It is clear that we need to prepare for a change in the climate. We have put forward a proposal at Parliament's table for a national climate adaptation strategy. It includes, among other things, requirements for municipalities to reduce the risks in the built environment due to flooding, collapse and landslides – things that can be climate related. Now it is also a matter of ensuring that the climate legislation that we have adopted here is complied with, so that we can prevent as much as possible. We have a strength in that we have a structure for legislation and objectives – the overall objective and the intermediate objectives. It's important to keep gnetting on.
i-8384a545c818b405-805	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Some 3,000 Thai berry pickers come to Sweden every year. They pick between 15,000 and 30,000 tons of berries. They stay 30 to 45 days, and they are employed by the carrier companies. They do not take jobs from Swedish berry pickers, because there are no. The government now wants to tax the berry pickers. This means that they will not be able to be hired in the future. It will be negative for many workers and for companies in Sweden in the food industry and trade. This has caused concern among Swedish berry companies. Many are concerned about a competitive disadvantage in favour of foreign companies taking over the market. Will the government maintain this unilateral tax? No good comes from this. The government is now making an effort to expand small and medium-sized food companies and Swedish exports in rural areas.
i-8384a545c818b405-809	Mr President, I would like to I'll be honest with you and tell you that I don't know the tax laws for berry pickers exactly. I have to admit it. What we say when it comes to labour migration is that we should facilitate where we have a shortage. This means that if in this case we have a deficiency and cannot get hold of berry pickers in Sweden, we will make it easier. The legislation on how to tax them or not, I cannot go straight up and down. But in our country we have a general view of how income should be taxed. It is not unreasonable, then, that taxes should also be levied on this type of income. Mr President, I would like to I must admit that I do not know this in detail. I'm going to have to answer exactly as far as the tax on berry pickers is concerned. But we will generally make it easier for the workforce we need in Sweden.
i-8384a545c818b405-813	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago we could read about a preschool in Norrköping where there are small children groups that are completely without Swedish speaking staff. We are constantly being reached by reports that lack of knowledge of the Swedish language is a recurring problem in welfare. Many elderly people feel that they cannot communicate with those who give the elderly the care on which they are completely dependent. Swedish has a natural place in Sweden. And communication is a cornerstone for society to function. The policy pursued by the government and other parties is responsible for the development we are now seeing. It is a development that has been easy to predict. It is about time the government put forward proposals on language duty. But why does the government choose to constantly try to remedy problems afterwards rather than to prevent them from the beginning through the right signal policy?
i-8384a545c818b405-816	Mr President, I would like to Let us first note that I and Aron Emilsson agree that language duty is a good thing. It is of course important that when you go to a health institution, preschool or whatever it is, you understand each other. It's as simple as that. This is also our message in general terms in society. We need to develop it. But it also puts its finger on what the labour market looks like today. When SD talks about repatriation, or whatever it is, if you're going to send people back, you've got to think about it. We have about 1 million employees in Sweden who go to work every day and who were not born in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats should think about and understand that these people are doing a fantastic job for our country. The country would stay if they weren't here. Then we will make sure that everyone knows the language so that everyone can understand what is being said.
i-8384a545c818b405-820	Mr President, I would like to Last Tuesday, Minister Bucht visited my municipality of residence, Torsby. We visited the eco-tourist company Vildmark in Värmland. It is a family business that started 38 years ago with timber rafting on Klarälven and other nature experiences. The company is one of the first certified eco-tourist companies in the country. Ecotourism is based on a sustainable approach with gentle nature tourism. Guests from Europe and other parts of the world are often present. The company has well-trained nature guides who train their guests in public policy and how to survive and behave in nature. VAT has now been reduced from 25% to 6% for companies with natural tourism and nature guidance. But the IRS makes a very narrow interpretation of that decision. Many of the companies in the eco-tourist industry are now not getting part of the intended change.
i-8384a545c818b405-825	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that more and more people are visiting Sweden. I understand them, because there is so much beautiful to share in. Our nature is incredible. That is why we have reduced VAT on natural guides, just as the questioner says. The intention is that we will strengthen Sweden further so that more people want to visit us. This does not apply to all services offered by natural tourism companies. Among other things, we must relate to the EU's VAT rules. There will then be some problems with drawing boundaries. It is the Swedish Tax Agency that must assess what is the main purpose of the service sold. We cannot make an assessment there, but we must follow the handling of the Swedish Tax Agency. But the intention is to get more people to visit Sweden.
i-8384a545c818b405-827	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the many shootings taking place in our country. As far as I know, the last shooting was yesterday morning. It can be said that we are statistically high in Sweden, one of the highest in Europe. Most of the victims are teenagers and young adults. This must be stopped, I think we agree on that as soon as possible. We also agree that we should have more police officers, but it will take years.
i-8384a545c818b405-830	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is undoubtedly a social problem. Over time, the number of shootings has gone up and down. We have seen a rise, and we hope that progress will be broken again. It is too early to talk about a trend break, but over the year there are slightly fewer shootings. It's still too much, so we need to do more. It is for that reason that we must have more police officers, and the police must have better tools. That's why we're making it easier for cops to set up security cameras. It has proved to have a good effect. We've tightened the penalty considerably for gun crimes. This means that if you get arrested with a gun, you go directly into jail, and you don't come home in the afternoon, like you used to. I think five times more people are now in custody. That's where you belong if you go out with guns on you. It is a question of penalties, more police officers, an amnesty of weapons and, not least, cooperation between the authorities. We know that it will have a major impact on the criminal gangs if all the authorities work together.
i-8384a545c818b405-834	Mr President, I would like to Now that it is Stefan Lövven's last Question Time as Prime Minister, I have some questions. There has been a policy, and there has been a lot of work in terms of profits in welfare. I understand that this is the question of the Social Democrats. As a teacher for 15 years, I have seen the system from the inside, and I cannot help presenting the proposals that we have. I cannot understand why the Social Democrats cannot follow that line. We want to introduce a buffer to ensure that schools cannot be shut down, as has been done in the past. We also want to introduce permits, supervision and a nationalisation of the Swedish school. Then profit in welfare becomes a non-question. We also want to ensure that there is a mundaneity in Sweden instead of 53 authorities. Money should be added to the school, but it should not be thrown into a bathtub that is full of holes. We have to bet on the right things. With this, I am thinking about your open borders now coming back with full force, and you are handcuffed to this issue. Poor Sweden's municipalities are taking the fall instead. What is it like to wake up as a social democrat today?
i-8384a545c818b405-840	Mr President, I would like to Sorry, I didn't hear the last question. But we're taking the substance of this. Profits in welfare, how hard can it be? The Swedish democrats are fighting with everything they have to ensure that the profit draw is unlimited. That is what this discussion is about. We're fighting for a limited payoff. Of course, we should make sure that ownership testing and such things work, but the Swedish Democrats were not so fond of it either. You owe the answer. That's it. How do you get control of grade inflation? As long as a school company has the incentive to get school money, the risk is obvious – and it is a fact – that you also attract with joy certificates. You fool the kids. No, it's a matter of deciding, and we've made up our minds. Profits must be limited. We lost the vote, but we will return to the elections, and then the Swedish Democrats will remain in their position.
i-8384a545c818b405-846	Mr President, I would like to Urbanisation is a strong force, so strong that it sometimes appears to be a law of nature. This term of office has become clear that political will makes a difference. At home in Norrbotten we are pleased to have a government that cares that it will be possible to live a good life throughout the country, also in the large areas of our country that are sparsely populated. We welcome the government's offensive broadband initiatives and decisions on major investments in road, rail and maritime transport. We are also pleased with a clear agenda to decentralise Government Sweden and increase the state presence throughout the country. We can see that Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi goes around the country and inaugurates the service offices that have been decided to increase access to government services throughout the country. Last Tuesday, the Minister of Civil Affairs in my neighboring county was Västerbotten and opened an office in Sorsele. But now I wonder about the government's continued ambitions. When these ten offices have been established, what will be the next step for a vibrant countryside and to increase the state presence in all corners of the country?
i-8384a545c818b405-851	Mr President, I would like to First I want to say that it's fun to hear one with a hearty Scanian dialect talk about This is how it should be in Sweden. Ten service offices will be opened, and it will continue. I think it is extremely important that the state is really present throughout the country. Ten service offices are just the beginning. We have received a report proposing 27 additional offices. Now we intend to proceed with this and to link the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen's activities belong to the service offices. This is one way to be serious about the whole country living. Then, of course, we will ensure that there are training places around the country and that the infrastructure works. Colleges and universities are not community schools, they are for real. They're growth hubs around the country. Here we intend to continue to ensure that the whole country counts. The whole country should not only live, but the whole country should be able to grow.
i-8384a545c818b405-855	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Försäkringskassan is one of the country's most important authorities. It is of the utmost importance that all our authorities are managed in a good way that creates trust among both employees and the general public. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was a highly appreciated Director General of Försäkringskassan. She had broad confidence in her employees, which became clear when the government chose to fire her. Since the Prime Minister has extensive experience from the trade union movement, he will be aware that the Saco Association at the cash register described that the decision had grown contemporaneousness among the employees. The chairman of the trade union ST commented briefly on the fact that it is now an election year. Begler was allowed to leave because she did what the government had asked her to do, and when it came to criticism of that policy, the government chose to fire Begler instead of standing up for its own policy. Is it reasonable for the important task as Director-General to become a catapult chair and that you hux flux can be fired just because you have done what the government has asked you to do?
i-8384a545c818b405-859	Mr President, I would like to I think it has been trampled too long in the corridors here or not so much else if you think that a person who gets to keep the job as Director-General but move from one place to another with the same salary and the same conditions has been fired. No one out there would really describe it. The truth is that the government was not satisfied with the authority because we should have lower sickness rates. I think we all agree on that. No one's happy if we have high sickness rates, I'm assuming. But it is possible to do so in different ways, and it is not reasonable for people to be kicked out of health insurance without having been given a real opportunity to return. This is why the Government has in its strategy that Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen should have contact with the parties and health care. That's where it has to work. If the Social Insurance Agency does not function in such a way that it takes responsibility and is a partner, then something must be done.
i-8384a545c818b405-862	Mr President, I would like to Today we were able to read in the media that the narcotics police are taking a stand for a review of drugs policy. This is after Norway has amended its legislation so that the user of drugs can receive treatment instead of punishment in the first place. Sweden has a zero vision of a drug-free society, while the Liberals would rather see a zero vision for drug-related death and drug-related suffering. Sweden has the second highest mortality rate related to drugs in the EU. That is five times the average in the EU. Given that the narcotics police now want to see another drugs policy, is the Prime Minister prepared to initiate a review of drug legislation in the direction that the Liberals and now the police want to see in order to reduce mortality?
i-8384a545c818b405-865	Mr President, I would like to I think it is extremely important that we retain the zero vision. Drugs are not only a misery in the sense that people who become addicted to drugs are affected, but also an important part of organised crime and its income, so it is really a matter of being distinct and persevering. I am not going to say here that I am prepared to do one or the other on the stand. On the other hand, we must constantly try and see what we should do at every given opportunity to reduce drug use and the influx of drugs into the country. Always trying to reduce abuse is our political duty. This is a question we have to take with us the responsible minister of state. I do not know if there are any initiatives right here and now. But let's take it to the responsible minister, and let's see where the discussion ends up.
i-8384a545c818b405-868	Mr President, I would like to Dental care is a major problem for many people in Sweden. A lot of people can't afford to go to the dentist. The biggest problem is when costs run away, when it costs several thousand or even over 10,000 for large treatments. Of course, this hits low-income earners extra hard. Pensioners are a particularly vulnerable group because many pensioners have poor finances and also a great need for dental care. It is often at the end of life that you have the greatest need. Dental care is not part of the healthcare system in the same way as the care of the body in general. The teeth are exempt. Now this question is being investigated by Veronica Palm, but I wonder if the government can imagine that dental care in the future will become part of the healthcare system so that dental care costs as much as going to the doctor and more can thus afford to go to the dentist.
i-8384a545c818b405-872	Mr President, I would like to Just as Hillevi Larsson points out, this investigation is now working, and it must be completed. But there is no doubt that the point of the entire investigation is to ensure that the dental system provides a better and above all more equal dental care. Too many people cannot afford dental care, and it is not worthy of a welfare society like Sweden. In addition, we have already started with investments in dental care during this year. If I remember correctly, it will be the second year free of charge up to the age of 23. It is a great success, as well as that we have increased the dental allowance for the elderly substantially. We have to go on and make sure everyone gets the money to go to the dentist. Now let the investigation continue to work so that we can see what its conclusions are. But we'll have better dental care, and we'll all be able to afford to go to the dentist.
i-8384a545c818b405-876	Mr President, I would like to The lack of teachers in Sweden is evident and is increasing sharply. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, 80 000 teachers need to be recruited in the next few years, of which 28 000 are missing according to the Swedish National Agency for Education. After rising during the alliance years, the search pressure for teacher training is now falling again. Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats promised to reduce the administration of teachers. You would reward successful teachers. Conditions for teachers would be improved. It would change teacher training with increased admission requirements. New ways into teacher education would be opened up by opportunities to retrain more quickly to teachers. Of this, there was nothing. Every single electoral promise from the Social Democrats to strengthen the teaching profession has been broken. Instead, it became a wage investment that has torn the teaching staff apart. Wage increases to strengthen particularly vulnerable areas have not been achieved.
i-8384a545c818b405-880	Mr President, I would like to You hear it's an election year. I wonder where Erik Bengtzboe has been for the last four years. We've put a lot of effort into teachers. We have increased teacher training and improved the quality of teacher training with more teacher-led time. The bet on the teacher's wages is exactly that. It is said that we have given nothing to the teachers, that we have not paid any premiums. Yes, that's exactly what we've done. We have also done something else: we have made sure that the parties responsible for wage formation – and who I think are better placed to take care of it than politicians – have received an extra contribution for it. I think that's good. We say that we want to remove some national tests to reduce administration. The Moderates are unhappy then too, but we have. We have made sure that if you have, say, an engineering degree and have worked as an engineer, you can take an educational education to get into the teaching profession faster. We intend to continue, and we believe that now there are more teachers who want to return to the profession than in a long time.
i-8384a545c818b405-886	Mr President, I would like to Ill health and illness can all suffer, and this is not improved by poor economy. The government took one step this year to reduce the tax differential for those with sick and activity benefits. The Moderates have promised to remove this. In fact, we should go back to uniform taxation of all earned income rather than dealing with the trifle from different sources of income that the Moderates have invented, with the risk of pitting people against each other.
i-8384a545c818b405-888	Mr President, I would like to We now hear that the Moderates are also interested in removing the tax gap between employees and pensioners. Let's see what it's gonna be. It's a policy you've had for over 12 years, maybe longer than that. Let's see what you can afford. But we mean and have said that this tax, the so-called pensioner tax, is going away. We have to have a different order there. That is why we also have a plan for how this is to happen. In addition, we are now working together with the other parties in the Pensions Group to improve basic protection for pensioners. When it comes to the discussion on taxes in general, we will have to come back, but I think that the basic principle in Sweden should be that you pay equal tax on equal income. Let's see how we get there.
i-8384a545c818b405-891	Mr President, I would like to The election before us will be a referendum on Swedish welfare, said the Prime Minister yesterday. In several areas, changes are absolutely necessary. Sweden knows more, and Sweden needs better leadership. Sweden needs new leadership; it is clear. I note that the Prime Minister has the support of his ministers in this House. This is not logical given the need for many changes in society. But with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, the patient has been placed in a care queue and waiting room, not in the centre. The healthcare queues have doubled during the term of office – why, Prime Minister? Less than half of all cancer patients do not receive treatment on time — why? The number of children who have waited more than 30 days to get to the BUP has tripled — why?
i-8384a545c818b405-895	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the care queues, the vision is mixed. I think it is important that, when we discuss this, we look at the facts: what is it really like? It can't just be slogans. It's a little different. The work that the bourgeois government started, which I think was quite right, with standardised medical procedures for various cancer diagnoses, has now been completed. Now we have this because, I think, about 30 different diagnoses. This means that we have considerably shorter queues for cancer types such as breast, skin, head and neck cancers. Fewer people have to wait. Let's get on with that job. It is clear that we see a difference between regions. Halland is good, as is Östergötland. We see that Kronoberg and Skåne do better. Västra Götaland accounts for one third of the increased care queues. So it looks different. But ultimately, on a national level, it is for us to ask what resources we should provide health care. There'll be more.
i-8384a545c818b405-899	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the finest thing about Sweden is our strong democracy. We shall be proud of it and cherish and cherish it. But democracy is in question. There are undemocratic forces mobilizing now that the elections are approaching. The Internet and social media have brought great benefits. The distance between electors and electors has been reduced, and everyone has a platform to make their voice heard and find both like-minded and opponents to converse with. But the whole democratic conversation risks being poisoned by hatred, threats, polarisation and a climate of debate that makes ordinary people dare not express their opinion. Doomsday prophets, extremists, gapheads and bullies are spreading and creating a perversion of the world. People get quiet and scared. It is a danger to our fine democracy. What does the Prime Minister think about this?
i-8384a545c818b405-902	Mr President, I would like to Olle Thorell raises one of the more fundamental and important issues we have before us at the moment. We may disagree on a great deal, and that debate must continue. But I am very concerned about the climate of debate that we have in Sweden now. That is why I devoted a great deal of my speech on National Day to that very question. We need to be able to support each other in that this isn't okay. When young people form a club to engage in politics, they are met with the most terrible words on social media. They're forced to shut down their Facebook page. This comes from adults, who even have grandchildren and show themselves with them on Facebook. We as politicians must also take responsibility for what discussion we are having, not least in the electoral movement. Should it be intransigent or factual? It's our responsibility.
i-8384a545c818b405-906	Mr President, Prime Minister. The state-owned company Telia has stated that it wants to buy part of Bonnier, TV4, which would make the state completely dominant in the media market. This is not reasonable, and the Moderates therefore say no. From the government, it's been radio silence. Ministers Damberg and Bah Kuhnke have not answered the media's questions. The government owns 37 percent of Telia, and the government should be able to express an opinion. The stock exchange rules do not prevent the government from doing so. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Is the government for or against Telia buying TV4? Does the government think it is reasonable that the state could thus acquire a completely dominant position on the ethermedie market in Sweden?
i-8384a545c818b405-909	Mr President, I would like to I can't stand here and comment on a business that isn't up to date. It would still be a little illogical. Telia Company has sent out a five sentence press release in rather general terms. I would then stand here as Prime Minister and speak on something that is not relevant. If this should be the case, then we will have to discuss it. Then the owner can act as well. But the fact that one of the big owners would go out now, in advance, and act is not thought through. That's not how it works. Now the company's board has the task of running the company. Should they come back with a proposal, we will have a discussion that may concern both the accuracy of the deal and other perspectives. But I won't have it until it's actually up to date.
i-8384a545c818b405-912	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Prime Minister about health care for all of us who live north of Dalälven. We have learned new concepts: car birth and ditch birth. There is an exhibition, which I do not know if the Prime Minister has visited, that women who have given birth in cars between Kiruna and Gällivare have had during the spring. Today it is announced that intensive care in Kiruna will be closed. This means that it will be 100 miles [100 km] of driving for the most severely ill patients. In Gävleborg there has also been an alarm about major problems with accessibility this summer. It can be said that healthcare services throughout Norrland have warned against lack of accessibility and long care queues. I wonder if the Prime Minister shares my concern about health care for all of us who live in Norrland. What information does the Prime Minister give to those who need to seek medical care in Kiruna and are seriously ill?
i-8384a545c818b405-915	Mr President, I would like to Again – it is clear that those who are seriously ill should have care and that women who are going to have children should have the best care. Unfortunately, childbirth in the car is not something that has occurred only in recent years, but there have been a number of mothers forced to give birth in the car. This is not good, so we must, of course, do something better. Then it is again a question of the county councils being responsible for the healthcare provided in their area. That's the way it should be, I mean. I think this is important. The national mission must be to ensure that there are sufficient staff and resources. That is why we need to train more, not least midwives, as is happening. And that's why county councils need more resources in order to hire more people, which also happens. This is not done in a short time, but it takes time. But we now see that we in Swedish health care have 13 000 more employees so far. In the next term of office, we will have another 14,000.
i-8384a545c818b405-919	Mr President, I would like to The government has decided on the new infrastructure plan, which announces 100 billion in new, important infrastructure investments across the country. The total investment amounts to 700 billion. I think there are many important projects here, including the Norrbotnia Line, which were actually scrapped by the former bourgeois government. Now we see the opposite. What initiatives and environmental improvements does the Prime Minister see in the wake of the new infrastructure plan? Please also answer what happens if a new moderate-led government comes to power and changes the plan.
i-8384a545c818b405-922	Mr President, I would like to This national plan, as is said here, represents a substantial increase in ambition. This must be the case; it will be important for Sweden to stand strong. That is why I have also personally made it clear, for example, that Norrbotniabanan will be built there along the Norrland coast. But we can also make a big effort on the South East Link. This is linked to the fact that, in general, we need to improve transport opportunities in our country. We would like to move some of the transport from truck to rail, and then the railways must work. We must also ensure that we can export and that it works well. That is why we also want to strengthen the harbour of Gothenburg through the depth of the fairway. Then we give even better opportunities for exports to come out. There is therefore a lot to point out here, and it is now just to ensure that we continue so that we get better transport opportunities, more exports and more jobs to Sweden. That's how it's connected.
i-8384a545c818b405-925	Madam President, I would like That the media landscape is in constant change, we have talked a lot about both in committee and in this House. The media are slowly dying of soot death, and now the government, together with the other parliamentary parties, wants to perform artificial breathing in an industry that for a long time should have examined itself and been taught to stand on its own feet to a greater extent. One proposal, media support, aims to strengthen local journalism in areas that currently lack or have weak journalistic coverage. The second aid is what is known as an extension of innovation and development aid. The Swedish Democrats are of the opinion that the media must be given the conditions to exist in and monitor the entire society, even outside Stockholm and Södermalm. Unfortunately, local news coverage, especially in smaller cities and rural areas, is rarely particularly profitable. Local news coverage creates great value for locals and is ultimately good for preserving co-determination and democracy, not least in the home. The Swedish Democrats therefore welcome the proposed support aimed at assisting local news coverage journalism. As the need for media to develop modern, digital and innovative services is constantly increasing, we also see value in developed innovation and development support. It is therefore a good thing that the aid is made technology neutral and therefore, in practice, also includes platforms other than traditional printed press. However, the Swedish Democrats, unlike the government, are of the opinion that this form of support should primarily be given to local media that would otherwise have difficulty financing and developing innovative and future-proof solutions with their own resources aimed at reaching out to new and wider reader groups. Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes a 10% increase in operating aid for high- and medium-frequency newspapers and a 50% increase in distribution aid. Instead, the Swedish Democrats want to see a halving of pre-financing in the part relating to operating aid itself. However, the half-life does not relate to the distribution aid. Our ideological starting point is that, as far as possible, the media should be able to remain free of state aid and thus achieve a higher degree of independence. It is problematic when the one who is set to review power is dependent on support from it. At the same time, the distribution of printed media and news in rural areas is not always very profitable and may not be commercially viable. We therefore strike the balance that operating aid should be reduced and channelled towards rural areas, thus increasing the overall independence of the media from the state. At the same time, distribution support remains to secure printed media throughout the country. The original purpose of the pre-aid was partly to contribute to a comprehensive news journalism, where an individual political opinion would not be the only one prevailing. We disagreed about how this ambition turned out, but if the media had taken their mission seriously and reported on news in an objective, neutral and consistent manner, we would probably not even have had to stand here today to talk about increased pre-support. In fact, if the media had understood and respected their mission, they would probably have retained their customers today. To continue to throw more of the public tax money on the media that the same public has lost confidence in and abandoned is on the verge of provocation. The measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats in other areas, such as the reduction of sickness pay and the reduction of employers' contributions for small businesses, should make it easier for all businesses, and in this context, above all, for smaller editorial staffs who may not even receive pre-financing today. We believe that this is more appropriate in order to promote local and differentiated media presence than existing pre-support and the proposed increase in operating and distribution aid. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2.
i-8384a545c818b405-937	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! The audience and the press! Reviewing journalism is a democratic public interest. Journalism's mission is to review us and other powers, report news, broaden perspectives and deepen the debate on society. Free media and free journalism are a necessity for a free, democratic society. But we see how society around us is changing. We are in a troubled time and a troubled world. West, in the United States, we see Trump, who has made himself known for inciting journalists. As president, he has portrayed the nation's news media as enemies of the American people. Eastward, in Russia, we see Putin, whose regime is hitting journalists hard. They risk being attacked and killed when they do their job and review power. Since 1992, 58 Russian journalists have been murdered, according to the press freedom organisation CPJ. In another neighbouring country, Poland, the situation has deteriorated since the right-wing party PIS came to power. Journalists who do not sympathize with the government's view of the media have been fired, and the self-censorship, the silence, is spreading. Right-wing extremism is spreading in Europe, and with that threat to the free media. We also see it here in Sweden. The threats to journalists are increasing, and individual reporters are threatened with murder and harassed in their homes. Never before has Swedish right-wing extremism, even here in Parliament, been so well established. It has links to both the alt-right movement and Trump in the United States and to Putin's regime in Russia. On social media, hatred erupts. The hate storm could come at you any second. Organized accounts attack in swarms that violate and destroy. It is with horror that we see how representatives of this House also fit into the chorus. A while ago, Member of Parliament Linus Bylund, the Swedish Democrats, called journalists the nation's fie nder – frighteningly like Trump. Last spring, MP Hanif Bali, the Moderates, attacked one of Sweden's top security journalists. Mr Bali discredited his important reporting on Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea. During the days that followed, Bali lied about its links with the Russian regime's propaganda. Both Members, Mr Bylund and Mr Bali, have, after being called into question, made half of their prayers. But the fact remains: their aggressiveness towards the media is in line with the worrying developments we see in the outside world. Of course, it would have been just as serious if it had come from an extreme left. Madam President, I would like In the light of these developments, the Government proposal on journalism throughout the country and the report KU43 are of the utmost importance. In broad party political unity between seven parties, we have achieved this in order to protect, defend and create the conditions for the future of the free press throughout Sweden. This broad agreement provides good conditions for stability and continuity in an otherwise changing life for the industry's stakeholders. In the light of what is happening in the world around us, this is a declaration of strength, in the same way as the other major block-crossing agreements concluded under the terms of mandate. There have been over 20 such agreements between us Social Democrats and six other parties in different constellations, such as energy policy, defence, migration and parental insurance. When there are forces that want to tear us apart, we need to hook our arms and defend what matters. This report is a clear signal both for internal policy and for foreign policy: we stand up for free media throughout the country. Madam President, I would like We want to give the media concerned the predictability that many have called for. The Government's proposal and this report therefore mean an extension of current pre-aid with certain modifications. I'm going to go through that point-by-point. Firstly, new support for journalism is being introduced in areas that are weak or not guarded at all. It is crucial for democracy that investigative and independent journalism does not exist only in metropolitan areas. A new support for journalism in so-called white spots should be given to general news media that live up to established criteria. Secondly, technologically neutral innovation and development aid is introduced. It is a further development of today's development aid and emphasises a higher degree of development and innovation. Technology-neutral development and innovation support is also intended to be provided to actors who meet a number of quality criteria. The aim of both of these new media support is to strengthen democracy by promoting, through public news media with high quality editorial content, public access to independent news media throughout the country. Support is intended to be provided regardless of the form of distribution and is to be assessed and examined by the Media Support Board, the current Prestödsnämnden. Thirdly, we extend and increase operating aid. In order to create predictability and stability in the market, we have agreed to extend the current pre-aid system. Although digitalisation has a strong impact on the media market, there is also a need for support for the printed press. Operating aid for medium- and high-frequency newspapers is increased by about 10 per cent. Fourthly, we extend and increase the distribution aid. We need to create incentives for the co-distribution of paper magazines. It benefits both the economy and the environment. Together with the agreed amendment to the Postal Regulation, the distribution aid is therefore proposed to be increased by 50%. It will particularly benefit local journalism outside major cities. Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! When I was in high school there was quite often a newspaper on the breakfast table at home next to the milk and cereal. In the family, we took turns reading the various parts. We found out what happened around us where we lived, what was planned and why — or why not. I am pleased about that, and I wish more people could have that opportunity throughout the country. With the knowledge of what is happening around us, the opportunity and power will be able to influence our everyday lives and to exercise our right to participation. Local journalism – just like local democracy – is closest to us. Certainly, in an increasingly globalised world, local news may change form and span more areas, as what is happening on the other side of the globe also affects us locally where we live. This could be about the global economy, the climate or wars. But the principle remains the same: it's about what's close and that affects the citizen-- that affects you. With the help of free journalism and reviewing media, we get citizens' contexts and broader views. Power is held to account, and knowledge is shared. It is crucial for the functioning of democracy. For me, as a citizen, a minor and a social democrat, this is close to my heart. When I was a new Member of Parliament, the first question I raised in the speaker's chair about here in Parliament was precisely the question of local journalism and publicist diversity. I wanted to see an extension of the present aid and have worked intensively for it. And that is exactly what this report is about, among other things. It is therefore with great pleasure and pride that I, on behalf of the Social Democrats, call for approval of the committee's proposal. In conclusion, I would like to thank the other parties in this agreement for their good cooperation, and also my party friend and former KU colleague Berit Högman who represented us with Social Democrats in this but who left Parliament last spring.
i-3ntMGjDNJTSk3BcpPz7nCg	Madam President, I would like Like Mrs Naraghi, I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. On the whole, the newspaper industry is under strong economic pressure. Generally speaking, declining user revenues are seen in combination with lower advertising revenues. Digitalisation has brought great benefits but also challenges. The final report of the Media Investigation puts it this way: a social media has affected media ecology more in the last five years than any other change in 500 years. ..................................................... At the same time, 43% of citizens feel that there are often, sometimes or rarely, major changes in the neighbourhood without being sufficiently informed in advance when there was a chance to influence. Madam President, I would like Essentially, media industry actors must meet their challenges through their own efforts. In many media companies, extensive work is under way to develop organization, working methods and business models. However, the State can in turn facilitate the transition by means of measures to make it generally easier to run media companies, such as the abolition of advertising tax, and by targeted actions in the form of specific aid, such as pre-aid or what we now call media support. Just as Laila Naraghi told us, the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Left Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats from 2013 have broadly agreed across party boundaries on pre-support. Following negotiations, we have again agreed on media support that is intended to apply from 1 January 2019. We Moderates and the Alliance have been careful to wait for the opinions of the referral bodies and listen to them, not least regarding the need for predictability, the risk of subjective criteria, the importance of technology neutrality and other views on the final report of the Media Investigation. The proposal for media support, as Mrs Naraghi said, is essentially an extension of the current system, based on the bill State support to the daily press from 2015. Some modifications have been made in view of the developments that have taken place. In fact, to a lesser extent, we have relied on the final report of the Media Investigation. Our aim is to contribute to predictability and good, long-term conditions for investigative journalism across the country in a changing media landscape. The starting point is to create the conditions for the future of the free press. As Mrs Naraghi said, we are proposing four types of aid, two of which actually involve extensions of current aid, one is a partially modified aid and one is a completely new aid. According to the Institute for Media Studies, 73 municipalities have no physical editorial office, and 33 municipalities have no editorial presence. The ceiling for the new aid for white spots will be a maximum of SEK 1 million per area, which as a starting point should be a municipality. The aid is distributed as far as available funds are concerned. This proposal for new media support must be approved by the European Commission in accordance with EU state aid rules before it can enter into force. Through the government, we have entered into a dialogue with the Commission and have a good hope of approval. Our joint ambition across party boundaries is a media support that aims at predictability, stability over time and good conditions for reviewing journalism throughout Sweden in a new media landscape.
i-8384a545c818b405-971	Madam President, I would like Our media habits are changing rapidly and with them the prerequisites for news communication – so quickly that even though it is only three years since we in Parliament decided on a whole new innovation and development grant and also strengthened the pre-support rules in a way that has actually saved some newspaper from bankruptcy, we now need to further strengthen and improve the rules. The daily press struggles not only with a negative development spiral but with three parallel negative development spirals. First of all, there has been a rapid loss of advertising revenue as an increasing number of advertisers feel that they have a better impact with ads online, primarily Facebook and Google. Secondly, reading revenues are also being lost at a rapid rate, not least because growing generations take up news in other ways than by subscribing to a printed newspaper. Thirdly, lower reading revenues also mean lower pre-support, since today's pre-support is based on how much reading revenue you have. The overall economic consequence of this was clearly seen a few years ago in the form of a negative net business. It was therefore not only individual newspapers that went at a loss, but the total costs of the industry exceeded the total revenues of the industry. Now there are black figures on the bottom line again, a small positive industry net, based on the fact that the business has been adapted to the economy by shrinking and slimming the size of newspaper editors. Local management offices have also been removed and dismantled. Now 35 municipalities in the country are completely lacking a local editorial office. One can consider the conditions for maintaining a vital local democracy if there is no continuous news coverage in the area, unless there is a news desk that reviews the municipality, clarifies what is happening and can explain even complex issues to a public and at an early stage also bring up the issues that lie in a decision-making process so that people can react, engage in issues or at least make initiated elections to the municipal council. Pre-aid, or media support, is therefore not an industry support, but should be seen as investment to create the conditions for a vital local democracy. We are seven parties that are now making proposals for four reforms to strengthen the conditions for having local journalism throughout the country. Two of these reforms are about strengthening support under the existing pre-aid system: we are strengthening the operating grant by 10% for high- and medium-frequency newspapers, and we are strengthening the distribution grant by as much as 50%. The third reform is about broadening the new innovation and development contribution to include clean online newspapers. The fact that we did not do this three years ago cannot be explained otherwise than that it was a mistake. The fourth and most important thing is that we now introduce a whole new media support, aimed at those actors who establish news communication in the places where it is lacking today. This means not only that we are now creating the conditions for removing white spots from the map; it also means that we are breaking new ground and getting a completely technology-independent support that does not take its starting point in how news is transmitted but in what needs there are, and also looking at the existence of sufficient quality in editorial work. Someone may think that there are too little resources in the new media system. The important thing now, however, is to get it in place; if it turns out to work well, there is every possibility of increasing the level of funding in the future. It is surely not an unlikely guess that the interest in subscribing to a daily newspaper will continue to decline and that the reader's income to the newspapers will therefore continue to decrease, but with the new media support we have an instrument to face such a development. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations expressed by the Swedish democrats.
i-8384a545c818b405-986	Madam President, I would like We in the Constitutional Committee support the Government's proposal for the development of current media support and the approval of two new forms of support for newspapers. It is only the Swedish Democrats who are outside this agreement and who do not see what we see, i.e. the significance of journalism and the newspapers for democracy. The newspapers have a very important role to play in providing citizens with the social information and debate on social issues, locally, regionally and at national level, which is necessary for a functioning democracy. Citizens need to have knowledge of and interest in the social issues decided upon in the general elections. Not least in times of rumour and false news, the communication of news through journalists and newspapers is of fundamental importance for citizens to form an opinion on the opinions of the various parties. Unlike the media investigation set up by the government, the focus of the Center Party on media support has been that this should be based on the previous rules that have been in place for media support, or pre-support. If this were not done, the economic conditions for many media companies would deteriorate considerably and several newspapers would have to close down. As far as distribution aid is concerned, there is a proposal for an increase of 50%. It's good and necessary. A lot of newspapers, especially those with a large distribution in rural areas, have costs for the distribution of the newspaper that are higher than the entire production cost of producing the newspaper, i.e. for paper, printing, journalists and other staff. Some newspapers have tried to raise the subscription price to cover their increased costs, but this has led to a significant reduction in the number of subscribers. It has therefore struck against themselves and against what I think is important for democracy. In rural areas, too, many older people find it difficult to read the newspapers by reading them digitally rather than getting them distributed. The joint distribution of mail and newspapers should, as I see it, be an important way of bringing down the cost of distribution, both for the newspapers and for the mail. The decision already taken by the Riksdag regarding the two-day delivery of mail instead of overnight transport makes this possible. It is also environmentally good to coordinate the distribution of mail and newspapers. Unfortunately, however, there is a flaw in the Government's proposal. I understand that the attempts at joint distribution that have been successful, including on Gotland, unfortunately do not go further and that there will be none of what should be carried out throughout the country, as we in the Center Party had hoped it would be. The proposal increases the support for high and medium-frequency newspapers by 10%. This is needed in the economic situation in which the newspapers find themselves. We have support for white spots to create a better monitoring of what is happening in the municipalities. Local offices are now lacking, and it is, of course, an important step in implementing this. Innovation and development aid is being introduced, but it is not easy to create justice in this. It will be a task that the Media Support Board will have to try to clarify. From the Center Party, we regret that the media inquiry set up by the government and the Minister for Culture was not a parliamentary inquiry. It had a political reference group that did not have any influence on the investigator's proposal. After this investigation, it will take a long time before it is possible to re-assess the parties that agreed on their proposal in the PRS investigation about six years ago. Nevertheless, this proposal will now form the basis of the investigation and the decision that we are going to take. The weakness that we in the Center Party have highlighted in the Media investigation is precisely that it did not start from the economic conditions that the newspapers have. If you don't, there'll be problems for a lot of people to live on. This proposal and this report are called Journalism throughout the country. The whole of the country is an important concept for the policy of the Center Party. It is now up to us to monitor this and to ensure that the improvements contained in the proposals also become a reality. We must actively monitor this. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-8384a545c818b405-1000	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Liberals for their constructive cooperation across most party boundaries and with the representatives of the government in arriving at the proposal that we have today and on which we broadly agree. Thank you very much for that! Madam President, I would like Today's debate, which concerns the question of and the construction of a renewed, reformed pre-support system, is held under a very important – not to say almost fundamental – heading: Journalism throughout the country. The words a lot of journalism in the whole country are quite simple and self-evident in a democracy of Sweden's dimensions. The presence of the third state power together with the other two – everywhere, in all parts of Sweden – may seem self-evident. But, Madam President, that is not the case. In the best of worlds, state support for free journalistic scrutiny and media everywhere would not be needed at all. Media in that world would be such an obvious element that they would flourish and grow economically and deepen the democratic elements. But, Madam President, the harsh truth is exactly the opposite. Journalists' job opportunities and the media market in Sweden, as in many other countries and in a number of other industries, are in a very large and rapid transformation. Changing media habits mean that more and more people consume news digitally via their mobile phone, tablet or computer, or consume news in a completely different way from what most of us in this House may be accustomed to on a daily basis. Several media groups in Sweden have been forced to make huge savings. Local authorities, as previous speakers have pointed out, have been shut down, and the coverage is almost non-existent in a number of municipalities. According to some information, regular journalistic surveillance is lacking in over 70 of the country's 290 municipalities. In these municipalities there is no ongoing monitoring of the activities and decisions of the municipality, officials and politicians. There is no news of future decisions that affect people's everyday lives, so that you can have an opinion about them or try to influence them before decisions are made. No maladministration is revealed and there is no impartial communication about decisions to be taken or decisions to be taken. It is difficult for local residents to have insight into what power and tax is used for. Basically, the media shadow in these municipalities is a serious threat to democracy. Madam President, I would like So far, the pre-aid has been used mostly to keep other newspapers alive in many places. It is a very important support that has served its purpose well in times past for newspapers that would never have existed if the pre-aid had not existed. It has been good for allowing a variety of voices to exist in one place. But it has come to control more and more wrong. It has preserved structures that no one is serving anymore and in some cases has only become a rounding mark for very smart group builders. The new proposal for media support broadens support to the media in order to maintain surveillance in smaller municipalities. A new support is being introduced, as I said, for journalism in areas that are totally or partly unguarded. This is not only long-awaited, it is also essential for a living democracy. With the media support, which we now agree on and which we will decide on, a media house can receive up to SEK 1 million in support to ensure that a municipality is monitored. For us liberals, it is important that it is not a one-off, a one-off effort, but an ambition to create conditions and incentives for long-term journalistic presence and building up new journalistic presence throughout the country. It could be called a sustainability guarantee for living democracy everywhere. The proposal for new pre-aid also provides money for development and innovation, including this very good, although with the rather new system in this area we can probably discuss what innovative and innovative ideas really mean. It seems that all the ideas that someone else has hatched at the moment are innovative and innovative. But I guess we'll see where the progress goes. Support for other newspapers is also being increased, as I said, and guarantees that several localities may have two newspapers or two media left. The money will help the Swedish media to make a change in the reality in which we find ourselves. It must also be borne in mind, and it is an invitation to all the players in the industry, that we, as the state, legislators and state resource distributors, cannot do the work for the industry. It must do the work itself. It must itself come up with the ideas and create the new patterns. The changes aren't coming soon. The changes are here now. And we are going to help journalism make the transformation, but the leap, Madam President, the people involved must stand by themselves. It is with sadness, Madam President, that I can see that the probability is quite great that the paper papers will not last in the long term. I love the mess, and I love having some ink all over the place, both on my sheets and on the breakfast table. On that day when it's just about digital publishing, there won't be any problem running a completely digital business. But the rope trick is the trip there. The rope trick is when a media house will run digital development in parallel with a paper magazine. It is therefore a good thing that a large majority of the parliamentary parties agree to support the industry in the transition but not to do the job. In this way, the newspapers can live on for a while, while those who want to read digitally can hopefully get more developed products. The alternative is not so funny. Unless support measures are implemented, large parts of Sweden risk being without the media in the long term. As I said, in the best of worlds there is no need for support. But in our world, the new reformed media support is very good. This is much needed, so I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety and for the reservations of the Swedish Democrats to be rejected.
i-8384a545c818b405-1017	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal for a decision. I participated in the Presidium Committee, whose report was presented in September 2013. There we learned, of course we already had a general knowledge of, how bad things were for the paper magazines in particular and for the industry as such. The ads went increasingly to Google and Facebook, to digital advertising. The paper magazine was folding, and I who for years had given my one three children newspaper subscriptions in paper form to help them get started reading. My son then says to me, "Dad, I'm willing to pay to get rid of the paper paper." Of course a father won't be happy then. You want them to read. But then he said, "I read online." Then he listed all the news media he had there. That's the reality. It is a few years since the last report was presented in 2013, and now I am the same. Now I read almost everything online. Just as we each change and take on news in a new way, the industry must also change. All seven parties that participated in the investigation were fully united in 2013. We wanted general improvements for the entire newspaper industry and a modern support system. We had four main proposals: better and cheaper distribution by handing out mail and newspapers together, a pre-support with a more equalised support staircase, support for digitally distributed press and abolition of advertising taxes. All seven parties supported this. We may have done a good job, for it is this unity that is manifesting now. There have been some turbulence along the way and a few bumps, but now we all agree on the same seven parties. The article published on 14 February 2018 in Dagens Nyheter under the heading There we came up with new support for journalism in areas that are weak or not guarded at all. Today's development aid will be further developed and increased by 20 per cent from 1 January 2019. Technology-neutral innovation and development aid is introduced and current operating aid is extended and increased. Operating aid for medium- and high-frequency newspapers is increased by 10%. Here I would like to add that, as a Christian Democrat in a future, I would like to see support for low-frequency newspapers also increased. Today's distribution aid is extended and increased by 50%. This is good. That's what our joint investigation in 2013 came up with and something else. I would like to thank those who have been involved in previous investigations and, above all, the members of the Constitutional Committee. Members of the Committee on Culture have also been involved in negotiating this. Perhaps the conditions were not the very best, and it looked a little bumpy on the road. But we soon got up in the middle of the road and finished. For that I am grateful and thank those who have contributed to it.
i-8384a545c818b405-1025	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Constitutional Affairs' report KU44 A strengthened minority policy is inspired by comments that Sweden has received on minority policy by the Council of Europe, among others, and the report that came a few years ago from the two supervisory authorities Länsstyrelsen in Stockholm and Sametinget. The two authorities examined how the state funds received by administrative municipalities are used to support the languages of national minorities, access to culture and access to information from different authorities in their language. There were various shortcomings, which led the government to set up an investigation in 2006 to deepen this work, and last year the interim report, The Next Step, was presented. To this one-man inquiry was a parliamentarian attached, first me and then Hans Ekström. I shall make a few comments on what I think is important in the report. In all essential respects, the Moderates support the government's proposal, except in one respect, to which I intend to return. Madam President, I would like The first area is influence and empowerment. In this respect, the study, the proposal and the report highlight how the regular consultations take place with minority groups, particularly local and regional. I have a few comments on the national one, which I was going to take to the end. It has emerged that it does not always happen with the structure and systematics that are desirable for our minorities to have the opportunity to influence and influence the processes on which they depend. Here the committee sees the government's proposal as a very positive thing. The Government and the investigation have looked at the Norwegian model for consultation with the Sami. It imposes an obligation on national authorities, county administrative boards, municipalities and county councils to call for consultation with the Sami before a decision on matters that affect their daily lives. This is very positive. In Norway, preventive work on land and mining has proved to be a problem solver so that it does not, as many times in Sweden, become a confrontation. The fact that everyone is talking together in the face of a decision is, of course, a good thing. This is brought into the legislation with documentation requirements so that things come to fruition and it becomes clear, clear and traceable, which is a good thing. Madam President, I would like The second area is language. Every year we have motion reports on minority policy, and language is constantly the subject of this. After all, language is fundamental to the identity of our national minorities. The five minority languages are Sami, Finnish, Meänkieli, Romani and Yiddish. Problems are experienced in ensuring the right to education in these languages, and it is difficult to find staff who speak minority languages. This devotes much effort to the investigation because it is so central and important to preserve the language, transfer it between different generations and revitalize it by reviving it. The central elements here are that what has previously been native language education and has been outside the national hour plan is now being taken into the regular hour plan and will be called national minority languages. It is also brought into the school law and is thus given greater weight and legitimacy. It also imposes an obligation on municipalities to offer and inform, especially in the administrative areas, but also in other parts with minority residents, that this possibility of teaching exists. This applies in front of preschool, but also primary school, in fact, all forms of school. It's very important. Madam President, I would like The third area is care for the elderly. There's a bit of a difference of opinion, but not in substance. As an elderly person, one can forget one's second language and only have minority language left, and it is a human right to be able to express one's needs and thoughts in one's own language. The investigation proposes that this should be included in national legislation and the Social Services Act. The Moderates are here in favour of the Liberals' reservation. The government wants to wait for the investigation of the Social Services Act before it takes this into national law as well. We believe that this process does not have to stop because of it, but we can already introduce this right. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to make a contribution which is somewhat outside the report. With regard to national consultations, i.e. the government's own, the economic opportunity for minorities to be present in Stockholm has not improved. It must also be more forward-looking so that minorities can attend these meetings and have representativeness. In addition, we must be careful with the administrative burden. I request the approval of reservation 7.
i-8384a545c818b405-1044	Madam President, I would like My committee colleague, Annicka Engblom, well described the content of the report as a whole. I'm not going to repeat it, because I think she did it in a good way. When this matter was dealt with in committee some time ago, we stated that perhaps we did not oppose the government proposal in general but that we had concerns about the language of the bill itself. I want to say something about this. We in the Swedish Democrats stated that there are elements in the bill that we agree with. For example, it is obviously important that national minorities have empowerment and are involved in society. However, the bill, which is just over 130 pages long, contained relatively few concrete proposals. Much of what is proposed should have been formulated and proposed at least as clearly but with fewer words. Let me exemplify this by a quote from p. 39 of the bill: a minority policy must be implemented together with the national minorities, not by others for the national minorities. For this to be possible, influence and participation is a foundation for the entire policy area, and that is why, among other things, one of the three strands of minority policy is defined as "power and participation". ..................................................... A little later in the bill, we can read the following: a central point is that the form of influence aims to achieve participation in the decision-making process, both in order to take into account and meet the needs of the national minorities and in order to ensure that the public's efforts can be designed in an effective, effective and qualitative way. In this context, it is important to recall that national minorities should be given the opportunity to participate in order to exercise influence over their own situation. They must therefore have real and concrete opportunities to influence their situation and that of others. ..................................................... The absolute majority of national minorities should be able to live their lives with exactly the same conditions as the majority of the Swedish population and do not have the same problems of exclusion, language and cultural barriers as the immigrants who have come here recently or in the near future. It is therefore questionable whether the tone of the bill could not be adjusted on this basis. The real criticism, Madam President, makes me somewhat sad to actually have to raise. This is true of the ever-recurring power-fullness of the government's violence against the municipal self-government. We saw it in the instruction law, and here it appears again. Municipalities can voluntarily choose to join a minority language administrative area, and so far everything is fine. However, in this bill the government believes that it will approve a municipality's desire to withdraw from an administrative area only if there are exceptional reasons for this. The fact that majority relationships in a municipality are changed is therefore not strong enough. It must, of course, be up to the elected representatives of municipalities to decide on such a matter. The proposal therefore goes far beyond what is actually in the form of government, namely that a restriction in the municipal self-government should not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has prompted it. We have seen the perfection of power in the past, and now, unfortunately, we see it in this bill too.
i-8384a545c818b405-1053	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals are in favour of all the proposals in which we are present, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 4. Madam President, I would like Who belongs to a national minority? It is for each individual to decide whether he or she considers himself or herself to belong to a national minority. Because belonging is based on self-identification, society does not require anyone to prove their belonging to one or more national minorities. It is up to each individual to decide for himself. Underlying the concepts, a large number of people with different views on their identity and language hide behind the concepts of national minority and national minority languages. Regardless of the concept of identity, compliance with their rights must be ensured. It would be a long time before Sweden had a new minority policy reform. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the then Minister of State Erik Ullenhag and the Alliance Government for their diligent efforts to strengthen the rights of national minorities. The bill From recognition to empowerment – the government's strategy for national minorities meant several steps. Nothing had happened since the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention in 2000, and the proposal brought a number of improvements. It involved 18 municipalities joining the Finnish administrative area and 13 municipalities joining the Sami administrative area. Today, the number of municipalities is considerably higher – a total of 81. It now also includes 16 county councils. The Minority Act introduced provisions applicable throughout the country, including the obligation to inform national minorities of their rights and promote their ability to develop their culture. The possibility of influence and consultation was also introduced. Madam President, I would like The Government decided in December 2016 to commission a special investigator to identify the need for action in response to, among other things, the Council of Europe's criticism of Sweden regarding, for example, the teaching of the national minority languages. The report on a strengthened minority policy, with special investigator Lennart Rohdin, submitted its report in 2017. A major and important issue that has been raised in the investigation is that of follow-up at national level. The follow-up shows a number of shortcomings in compliance with the rights of national minorities and the current legislation, both at municipal and at state level. This means that the implementation of minority policies is hampered, and this picture is also confirmed in the current situational descriptions and evaluations that have been carried out, not least by the investigation. The proposals from the investigation are a comprehensive proposal. The proposals should be seen as a coherent policy to strengthen national minorities and minority languages. The government is moving forward with the proposals for legislative changes to strengthen the policy put forward by the investigation, but the bill does not say anything about all the other proposals that are also needed to strengthen national minority policies. Several of the heaviest national minority organisations have criticised the government's failure to act in the future. The study's assessment that measures need to be taken now to strengthen the transfer of minority languages to future generations is important to ensure that languages do not cease to exist in our country. Some of the measures addressed by the study include support for national minorities to cope with participation at local, regional and national level. It also proposes a new structure to strengthen the monitoring, coordination and promotion of minority policy, especially in the municipalities and county councils of the country. This applies not least to the fundamental protection of minority policy, which applies in all municipalities and county councils in the country. The study shows that the vast majority of municipalities still, eight years after the law was created, do not in practice comply with the law. The study also points out the need for language centres, awareness-raising measures on national minorities and minority languages – especially in the world of schools – and measures to strengthen access to staff with knowledge of national minority languages in preschool and care for the elderly. These are measures that, together with the legislative changes, are needed to strengthen minority policy. And what will happen with the proposals in Jarmo Lainio's study on the national minority languages in school, SOU 2017:91? Madam President, I would like The international framework for the protection of human rights is based on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. The Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities was approved and entered into force on 1 February 1998, and Sweden ratified the Framework Convention in 2000. In connection with the ratification, it was stated that the national minorities in Sweden are Jews, Roma, Sami, Swedish finns and tornadoes. Finnish, Yiddish, Meänkieli, Romani Chib and Sami were traditionally considered to be the national minority languages spoken in Sweden. The Convention aims to protect national minorities as well as individuals belonging to national minorities. Over the years, the lack of measures to strengthen their rights has led to criticism from the Council of Europe, which I have already touched on, and it would, as I said, be a long time before 2010 – under the alliance government – before the legislation was adopted by the Parliament. Madam President, I would like Minority policy is based on principles that are deeply rooted in key human rights conventions that Sweden is committed to. The Government's proposal in the bill h are the Liberals' views on. Like the investigation, the Liberals advocate clearer coordination between minority policy and other human rights and democracy issues. The government's proposal is not the same as the investigation's proposal. In the bill, the Government does not present any credible arguments for the change in relation to the investigation's proposal. Liberals believe that the investigation's proposals are more well-considered and allow for a broader approach. Madam President, I would like I noted at the outset that most municipalities outside the administrative areas lack objectives and guidelines. These could provide better conditions for the long-term nature of local work that is currently lacking in many places. It should also be stated in the objectives and guidelines how the activities are to be monitored. The study proposes that municipalities and county councils should adopt minority policy objectives and that they should be followed up. This is one of the most important points in the entire investigation. There is nothing in the Government's proposal to ensure that the objectives and guidelines are politically decided. As the objectives and guidelines aim to meet the municipality's minority political commitments, they should be decided by elected representatives. If this is to be done in the municipal council, the municipal board, a committee or another political body, local circumstances may of course decide. Liberals support the investigation's proposal that municipalities and county councils adopt targets and guidelines for their minority policy work. We welcome the proposed clarification of the concept of consultation. It is particularly important to always highlight the individual perspective of minority policy. It follows that dialogue with associations and other associations is of great importance. However, other forms of consultation such as user dialogue, parental and family surveys and broader citizen dialogues should also be used. The government should consider initiating additional support and information material to help administrative authorities and municipalities organise consultations in such a way as to reach out to all concerned. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals welcome the revision of the concept of mother tongue teaching. It's a concept that's tricky. For these languages, no requirement is made for the language to be the learner's mother tongue in the sense of daily social language. Neither does it require that the student has basic knowledge from the beginning. These are changes made by the Alliance Government. Liberals were a strong driver of work, for the consequences were previously that children did not have access to so-called mother tongue education. Perhaps the parents had changed their language. Perhaps the family had other languages or could not speak the language enough. At that time, it was not possible to learn a national minority language. But it has been excellent to read other languages. This extended right is an important part of the work of revitalisation and is precisely about the possibility of learning a language that may have been partially lost within the family. Madam President, I would like With reference to other ongoing legislative reviews, the Government does not currently propose a transfer of the provisions on care for the elderly to the Social Services Act. We in the Liberals believe that this should be done. Just as it creates greater clarity with regard to municipalities that the right to pre-school in national minority languages is transferred to the School Act, clarity would be increased if issues of care for the elderly were regulated in the Social Services Act. Madam President, I would like During many trips I have had the opportunity to visit various activities where there are people who are considered to belong to the national minorities, and I would like to share some stories about individuals. It is about the residents of a retirement home who can finally communicate in their own language and make themselves understood. You can get the apple that you couldn't communicate earlier that you wanted. Such things can make a big difference for the individual. It is about the war veteran I visited in a retirement home, who had lost sight but could finally gain quality in life by someone understanding what the person wanted. It's about the nice accommodation in Norrbotten that gives the opportunity to care with the culture present through food memories and beautiful music that sounds in the corridors. A conversation was about spring. The seasons can have the same importance for a person who has moved to a retirement home as for everyone else. The staff told us about the older person who remembered what it's like to sleep in a horny in the spring and finally hear flies banging against the canvas – a clear sign of spring. It's about the older man who puts on his coals for the feast. You can use it even though it is of wool and cannot be washed in 60 degrees and tumbled, because the staff knows how to nurture culture. All these knowledgeable and committed staff in the field of care, care and school contribute to and strengthen the opportunity for individuals to have access to language and culture. Their commitment and language skills should be better taken into account. They are worthy of great praise! Madam President, I would like Children's access to a language and culture is important. The fact that older people can choose care in a national minority language with culture present is important. The security, recognition, communication and joy of culture are important, regardless of age. Legislation matters. The rights of national minorities are about human rights and they must be strengthened!
i-6WUTVhtRKjjANnvugvveRw	Madam President, I would like This proposal proposes amendments to three laws: the Social Services Act, the National Minorities Act and the School Act. Why are these amendments proposed? I think that the proposals should be put into a historical context, namely the Swedish minority policy for a long time. During the period approximately between 1809 and the 1970s, the image of the unitary state of Sweden lived with almost non-existent national minorities. The unitary state expressed itself in racism, assimilation policy, measurement and coercion. I have examples from this House. A minister bore the name Östros but originally had a Finnish name. His family was coerced. A younger colleague's mother, who is about the same age with me, had to take coercive measures in the Torne Valley. Sweden does not have a proud history in minority politics. Gradually, we have realised that this is about human rights, that it is part of the fabric that is Sweden and that diversity helps to make Sweden richer. Gradually and with staggering steps, minority policy has developed. During the journey we have been subjected to international criticism. It has been investigated a number of times, and now another step is being taken. I do not mean that this is the final step or that the construction is finished. Many more things remain to be done, but it is an important step forward. One of the things proposed is that municipalities and county councils should develop targets and guidelines for their minority policy work. I think this is very important. Just putting the light on these questions frees up creativity. My own experience from my time as local councillor is that when we started looking at these issues we saw that in a city of 20 per cent Finnish speaking was quite easy to arrange special departments with Finnish health professionals. It was easy to introduce language choices in the selection of home care services. It was quite easy to organise pre-school education, to provide special support for Finnish school activities and to introduce a special choice in the municipality's switchboard, where you could directly get service in Finnish. In all administrations, there was someone Finnish-speaking who could take matters. Did this cost a lot of money? No, actually, it didn't. I think that if you raise the issues, creativity will come loose. Nor can it be very difficult for our county councils, when choosing a family doctor, to introduce language choices, where this is possible. It should be possible. Light on the issue thus leads to development. The linguistic rights in school and care for the elderly and the revitalisation of languages will be further developed by my colleague Ida Karkiainen. One issue that has been specifically investigated in the context of this investigation is the position of the Finnish Swedes. We had for a long period of years motions in which we insisted that the Finns should be recognised as a minority in Sweden. This investigation has found that there is no reason to do so. There is no long-term, special Finnish-Swedish culture in Sweden. It must also be put into the historical context that when a Vasabo came to Stockholm it was no stranger than when a Umeå- or Växjö did it. If we look in this house at the meeting room of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we can see that Arvid Horn is hanging on the wall. Where was he from? Yes, from Finland. Gustaf Mauritz Armfelt preceded by being kicked out of the Swedish Academy – it should be able to be taught now – and was Gustav III's favor. Where was he from? Yes, from Åminne outside Salo in Finland. It is clear that these people were Swedes. To then create a special Finnish-Swedish minority in Sweden becomes a bit strange, the investigation has landed in. However, there is reason to pay attention to the blind spot in Swedish consciousness about what Finnish Swedes are. How many people of Finnish-Swedish origin have not been told: How good Swedish you know! It's kind of like saying to a dalmas: Amazing what you speak good Swedish! It is clear that this indicates that there is a blind spot that needs more attention in school and in other ways, but it does not mean a minority status. As far as the various national minorities are concerned, different measures are needed depending on their situation. We have the Jewish group, which is a well-established and seemingly strong group, but which is always the group that is first oppressed when the social climate becomes harsh. It acts as a kind of lacquer mouse paper on the time spirit. When we see the threats to the Jewish Association in Umeå or how special protective measures must be put in place at Jewish schools, we all understand that special measures are needed for the Jewish group. The Sami, such as indigenous peoples, land rights and the intrusions of mining, wind and other activities, also require specific measures. The Roma, with a weak socio-economic situation and a weak civil society, also call for other measures. Then there is the numerically large Finnish-speaking group – between 700 000 and 1 million Swedes have Finnish-speaking roots. It is clear that Sweden must strengthen its work with Finnish. This is also important for the Swedish position in Finland. If we from the Swedish side have an interest in us being able to speak to each other over the Gulf of Both Finland and Sweden, it is clear that we must work to strengthen the position of Finnish. Of course, we want Finland's bilingualism to be safeguarded. I support the KU's proposal.
i-8384a545c818b405-1098	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the KU44, a strengthened minority policy. The report deals with a government proposal and two accompanying motions. The proposal includes, for example, as many here have done before, that all municipalities and county councils should adopt targets and guidelines for their minority policy work. This means that we are now getting strengthened basic protection. It is important, especially as we have seen in the evaluation that has been made that it really does not look like that today. This also certainly provides much stronger protection for the 81 municipalities that are part of the administrative areas, which strengthen the right to care for the elderly and to pre-school in minority languages. The proposals put forward are aimed at strengthening basic protection, but also at extending the rights of Finnish, Meänkieli and Sami authorities. In practical terms, these are also amendments to the Social Services Act, amendments to the Act on National Minorities and Minority Languages and amendments to the School Act. The amendments are proposed to enter into force from the end of 2019. It would be late until December 1999 for Sweden to have a minority policy after a unanimous decision in the Riksdag. At that time, Sweden finally acceded to the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. It decided on a minority policy and recognised the five minorities and their languages. The law was strengthened in 2010, and further steps are now being taken. The five recognised national minorities are, as many others have been, Jews, Roma, Swedish finns, Sami and tornadoes. The Sami have also been recognised as Sweden's indigenous people. These minorities are ethnic groups which differ from the majority population in that they have their own culture and language. The Jews also have their own religion. You have a pronounced relationship and your own identity. In addition, unlike other groupings, the country has been in existence for hundreds of years; in the case of the Sami, it is a matter of thousands of years. Through decisions on minority policy, the state wants to give minorities a chance to preserve, promote and develop language and culture from generation to generation. Today's decision now further strengthens minority policy. It will certainly not be the last decision we take in this area, but it is an important step in the right direction. I support the committee's proposal.
i-8384a545c818b405-1103	Madam President, I would like Several Members have made an excellent statement of what this proposal is about, and I am not going to repeat it. We support the proposals in the proposal and are in complete agreement with the majority in committee on the report. Otherwise, it happens quite often that the Left Party has slightly different positions on minority issues. That is because, in this context, we are talking, above all, about how minority policy should work rather than what it should contain. Objectives and guidelines should be set. You should be responsible in municipalities and county councils. But it's mostly a matter of doing it, not of what to do. It is a structure for the forms of strengthening the system of minority policy. That's where we're in complete agreement. We think it is important to do so. Objectives and guidelines in municipalities and county councils are good. The managing authority also makes it clearer that there is an information responsibility. The meaning of consultations shall be clarified. However, in terms of consultation, it is also necessary to come back to how to ensure that national minorities have the resources and opportunities to participate fully in a consultation process. In fact, it takes a great deal for all these forms of consultation to work. It is not possible to have just a small transparency council or so if there is to be an effective consultation. Then there will also be a need to provide resources for minorities. You'll have to come back to that in a different order. One important thing in this that also affects what you do is that you strengthen the children's right to their minority language, regardless of whether the parents have lost the language during the journey. It is a very important part of regaining the opportunity for the minority to live on. If action had not been taken here, it would not have worked in the long term. It is a very good and important effort, as well as, of course, to strengthen in the elderly area. There you will have to come back to what the legislation should look like. However, the fact that languages for children are part of the school and educational context and that this is where the law should be based is a matter of course, because it is a right for all young people who have a minority language or who should be given the right to it.
i-8384a545c818b405-1110	Madam President, I would like A strong minority policy is the basis for a strong and prosperous democracy. Around the world, minorities are being oppressed. They are expelled from their homes, colonized and murdered. Where oppression is taking place, minorities are seen as weakening the nation – a group of people with language, religion, or expressions that differ from those of the majority. Madam President, I would like Our country, too, has oppressed indigenous peoples and minorities. Some time ago, the Swedish Church presented a White Paper on relations between the Swedish Church and the Sami people, which describes the violations and wrongs committed by the church against the Sami population. And a few months ago the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund published a report about the state's abuse of Tornedalingar during the 19th and 20th centuries. It deals with the measurement of tornadoes carried out during the year of operation of the Rasbiological Institute. It is important that we tell them about this. It is important that we go through history and learn from it so that it never repeats itself. Madam President, I would like The existence of indigenous peoples and minorities depends on language. Language bears culture, and without culture there are no minorities. What colonialisation and the policy of repression did was to ban people from speaking minority languages and thus effectively stifle entire cultures and entire peoples. Madam President, I would like Everyone should be entitled to language. This is one of the four headline objectives of Swedish language policy. The 2009 Language Act states that the public has a special responsibility to protect and promote national minority languages. The public will also otherwise promote the ability of national minorities to maintain and develop their culture in Sweden. Children's development of a cultural identity and the use of their own minority language should be promoted in particular, says the Minority Act. We therefore have a political responsibility for these languages to live on. It is a question of safeguarding the right to use one's language in contact with authorities. It is about supporting initiatives to survive and revitalize languages. It is about public broadcasting programmes and news in minority languages. It is a matter of prioritising language teaching for children and young people. It is about supporting research, culture and civil society. Authors, poets and literature are crucial to the use and development of a language. I am therefore particularly pleased with the proposal in the bill on the right to preschool and other educational activities in minority languages and the right to care for the elderly in minority languages. Madam President, I would like I was born in the Torne Valley. People who still bear a shame at having Finnish or meänkieli as their mother tongue live here because of the then Swedish policy, which forbade people to speak Finnish in, for example, school breaks. I think this is one reason why my parents never spoke Finnish or meänkieli to me and my siblings when we were little. Their parents had grown up at a time when Finnish and Meänkieli were considered ugly and in schools were also associated with punishment. I would like to read an interview from a report written by Curt Persson together with the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund, on the subject of schooling. The interviewer asks a person what it was like at school. Then the interviewer answers as follows: 中 C: Yes, it was detention if the teacher heard Finnish, so it was. It was Swedish that was valid, nothing else was accepted. R: But if someone spoke Finnish, how did it go? Were there such terrible teachers here? C: They were hit with the index stick, and the ruler, in the head. And then you hit your ear with your fist. So I guess it was a hard treatment. I remember a substitute, he could beat so that... now that you think... he turned off the touchsticks. And then you'd put your fingers on the school bench and he'd hit the forestick on your fingers. ..................................................... I have often been angry about this. Growing up in Haparanda and Tornedalen without knowing Finnish or meänkieli is a major disadvantage. It becomes harder to make friends, harder to get a job and harder to live in a border town like Haparanda. But not only that: Being a tornedaling but Finnish and meänkieli as a fluent language makes you feel rootless, because so much of the culture is in the language – the lullabies, the stories and the memories. In this way it can also be said that the result of language oppression lives on. Madam President, I would like Today I meet a generation of young people, including myself, who are very interested in languages and want our minority languages to live on. "Ei se kannatte," says some, "but a kyllä see kannatte, "I say. This bill is a step along the way, but there are also many efforts to continue to have a well-functioning minority policy in Sweden. I support the committee's proposal.
