i-ec30513b5a2fee34-0	Mr President, I would like to In our country – one of the richest and most prosperous countries in the world – more and more children and young people are not feeling well. They may have a headache or stomach ache, but it may just as often be anxiety, anxiety, and depression. All these are signs of mental illness. Time and again we get reports that developments are going in the wrong direction. Few claim to know why, but what many know is that it is not their responsibility. Children and young people who are mentally ill are becoming increasingly difficult to get help. It may vary across the country, but nowhere does it work well. We see failing pupil health, closed youth clinics and month-long queues in child and youth psychiatry. There is one thing many agree: it is not their responsibility, it is someone else's. I've met desperate parents and young people who don't get help. However, I have not met them as often as I meet politicians, managers and health professionals who say that responsibility – thankfully – is on someone else's table. The Centre Party has requested this topical debate precisely because it is here, in the Swedish Parliament, that the responsibility lies. My hope and our hope are that this debate will lead leading politicians to say that it is their responsibility to ensure that fewer children and young people are affected by mental illness and to ensure that they get help on time.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-4	Mr President, I would like to A warm thanks to the Center Party, which has requested this special debate on one of the most important social problems of our time in Sweden. For a long time we have seen an increase in the number of children and young people who feel far too bad. No child should have to feel bad for a long time in the way we see today. No child should have to go without help. No child should have to wait for help in the way we see today. We know that this is not a matter of course today, but that is where we are going. The mental health of children and young people is a high priority for the government. It is not good enough that it looks as it does today, and we must work hard to reverse this trend. Yes, Anders W Jonsson – the responsibility lies here with us politicians to take. The proportion of children and young people experiencing mental disorders has increased sharply in recent years. There is a clear tendency for more young people and young adults to be depressed and anxious. Young people also use much more psychiatric care now than before. The fact that children and young people receive the care they need is, of course, a high priority for me and for the government. I am deeply concerned about the developments that we are looking at over the country, with growing queues in the specialised child and youth psychology. If we are to succeed in reducing mental illness in children and young people, we must be able to keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time. It is about much better prevention, more accessible first-line care and a high-quality specialised care, and it is all about this at the same time. That is how we reverse the trend and give every child the support it needs. It is also these different parts that the government is working hard on. We strengthen all the important parts of the work required to combat mental illness. Here I believe that the work on early intervention – ensuring that children and young people get the right help at the right time – is absolutely crucial, both for children and young people not to feel bad for a day too long and for the resources for specialised psychiatry for children and young people to be sufficient for those who most need them. Strengthening prevention and early intervention is therefore a crucial part of the solution to the problems of specialised child and youth psychiatry. But it is also about ensuring that we have the right person in the right place. Me and my colleague, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, very often talk about this particular issue. There are many common points of contact here. There are two areas which I would particularly like to address in this debate. The first mentioned Anders W Jonsson in his introductory speech. It is about the unique and important role of student health. The second area is the requirement for diagnosis that is often made for support from the school. Students' health not only has a clear mission to work preventive and health promotion, but is also one of the few activities that meet children and young people in their daily lives. Here, student health has a unique role and an extremely important task. This government has worked hard to strengthen student health, and we invest SEK 200 million more annually. This has so far led us to have 700 more employees working at school to strengthen children's and young people's health. They are needed, but even more needs to be done. I take far too often the stories of the specialized child and youth psychology that worries me deeply. The same stories come from teachers, parents and students. They are about requiring diagnosis to provide these students with support at school, despite the fact that the law is more than clear. This has consequences for children who do not receive support when they need it. It also has consequences in that the children who need access to the specialised child and youth psychiatry end up in long queues. We cannot have that – this must stop. If we are to succeed in shorting the queues for child and youth psychiatry, we must see the real problems: the shortage of staff, the lack of pupil health, and a child and youth psychiatry flooded by neuropsychiatric investigations, because schools often require a diagnosis to support these children. There are no easy answers to difficult problems, but we are investing a great deal of resources in health care and in staff to reverse developments. Not a single child who feels bad should wait a day too long for care. But it is above all to get help early, where you are, which is absolutely crucial.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-19	Mr President, I would like to I've never worked as a counselor or a psychologist. However, for many years of my life, I have been a high school teacher. Now it is a few years since I last stood as a teacher and responsible teacher in a classroom, but behind me I have quite a lot of experience in meeting young people at a difficult time in life. It is difficult because during puberty there is a hormonal war in the body, but it is also difficult in many other ways. There is no doubt that many children and young people feel very bad and that there are many reasons for it. But since the school is the place where we meet all the children, it is important that the readiness to meet the children in how they feel is there, and I would argue that it does too little. Today, our teachers take a big, big responsibility for meeting and dealing with children who live with everything from depression to strong outward, sometimes aggressive, behavior because they carry as much as they need to get out somewhere. I carry myself with me many faces that I see in this context and situations so if I have shared with these children and who have been extremely tough. For the vast majority of children it has gone well, but not for everyone. But the key is to get the right help and help at the right time. Mr President, I would like to The queues of child and youth psychiatry are growing and growing. Queues have tripled since this government took over power. This development is, of course, totally unacceptable. SVT Nyheter summarized the situation on 6 February 2018: Last year, no county council passed the government's goal that everyone should receive an initial assessment within 30 days. The last two years have led to major deteriorations – and coincide with the fact that the government has abolished the performance requirements for extra money. ..................................................... This, my friends, is quoted from SVT News on February 6, 2018. The government has, as in the case of the queue billions for care, removed the performance-based system and the effort imposed by the Alliance government to shorten the queues for child and youth psychiatry. The result is, if possible, even worse for youth psychiatry. The care queues have doubled, while the queues to the BUP have tripled. This can't go on. There are lots of children and young people who are getting hurt and who do not get the help and support they need in time. Moreover, more and more of the children seeking help from the BUP are worse off than they were before. This is shown by the children's and the target's answers to BUP questionnaires. Many have symptoms of depression — an increase of over 50 percent in just five years. Many have anxiety problems — an increase of over 50 percent in just five years. Many report bullying at school — an increase of 90 percent in just five years. And many have experienced violence and seen domestic violence — an increase of 19 percent in just five years. This reality is derived from Children's and Youth Psychology Västmanland, which conducts a research project together with the Centre for Clinical Research, Västerås. Mr President, I would like to We believe that if more children and young people who are vulnerable and suffering from mental illness are to feel better, more of this work in the future needs to be proactive. We need more cooperation between BUP, school health care, social services, the police, healthcare and the non-profit sector, such as sports associations. It now needs to become a reality – really become a reality. No more solemn words between senior managers about more collaboration at formal meetings or informal coffeetimes, without really substantial cooperation. We have a deep belief that children and young people can grow and develop with the right support and help. All children can and want to evolve. From the beginning, we all have the ability to show kindness and empathy. And we want more children and young people, as they grow up, to be able to make their own class trip for real. Children should not automatically inherit their parents' situation. All children and young people should be able to feel hopeful and confident in the future. Sweden should be a country where all children and young people should be able to experience freedom of prejudice and good opportunities for social mobility. One of the most crucial things is to ensure that all vulnerable children and young people pass school, because that is where it often begins. Mr President, I would like to Some telling facts about the development are the ever-growing queues for BUP. There the development across the country is very weak, but absolutely weakest in the county councils and regions controlled by S. We must, of course, take a strong approach to this, because it is important, as the previous speaker has said, that the right help must come, and it must come at the right time.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-31	Mr President, I would like to Many people say that one can measure a country's degree of decency based on how sick people, older people and children are treated. That is something that we should perhaps bear in mind when debating here today the serious situation in child and youth psychiatry. We should remember that Swedish healthcare performs good medical results once the patient has access to care, and that is something we should of course be very proud of. But too many people get caught up in the chronically long care queues around the country, which means a great deal of suffering for patients and their relatives. I would like to say that Swedish health care has become a bit like an answering machine that repeatedly repeats: Patient, please delay. It is, of course, very serious, and there is no exception in child and youth psychiatry. We all know how important it is at an early stage to catch young people who feel bad, so that they do not risk getting worse. Nearly 200 000 children and young people between the ages of 10 and 24 suffer from some form of mental illness. It is also worth noting that mental illness among children and young people has increased more in Sweden than in other Nordic countries. More than twice as many children suffer from mental illness today as ten years ago. It is therefore worrying, to say the least, that the queues for child and youth psychiatry are growing day by day. None of the county councils passed last year's goal that everyone in child and youth psychiatry should receive an initial assessment within 30 days. In some county councils it is really bad, for example in Västerbotten. There, only 37% of patients received help within 30 days. Of course, this is not good enough. It is a great betrayal of all children and young people who have suffered mental ill-health but also of their relatives. It should not be up to stubborn and combatable parents to help children. I think it is time to see mental illness among young people as the public health issue it is. Then there must be faster ways into the care. Mr President, I would like to Until 2014, the county councils that passed the reinforced health care guarantee received a performance-based state grant. The guarantee meant that children would receive an initial assessment of child and youth psychiatry within 30 days. But the compensation was removed with the argument that first visits were given priority and not follow-up care. But to be honest, everyone in here: for the individual child who is thinking about taking his own life, it's actually a pretty lousy argument. Not even being able to offer a first visit is extremely serious. You risk not catching up on those who feel very bad, because they are not visible in the care. It's actually a structural misconception. Of course, children's and young people's psychiatry must be strengthened, so that a first assessment can be given priority and then started treatment for those who need it. In addition, the UN Committee on Children's Rights has criticised Sweden for lack of access and great inequality in the care of children. Here the government needs to make clearer demands on the county councils, so that every child receives the care they are entitled to in order to feel good. That is why we have proposed stronger legislation in this area, both in the Health Act and in the Patient Act. We want to see legislation that lays down clear obligations and allocates the responsibility to comply with them. It should contain a concept of rights that clarifies what patients have the right to expect in healthcare. But more will be needed. A battery of measures will be needed to reverse the negative development of care. Mr President, I would like to Denmark is a leading country in several areas, not only in immigration policy but also in health care. One example is the standardised healthcare processes that we have introduced in Sweden, including within cancer care. It has its role model in Denmark in so-called pakkeforløb. In children's and young people's psychiatry, Denmark is also ahead. Something called forløb programmes have been introduced for children and young people who have suffered from mental illness. If we translate this into Swedish, the national flow program will be. This is something we will propose in our budget this spring. The reason why we want to introduce national flow programmes for children and young people here in Sweden is that these children and young people will then be offered a faster and more coherent help that means the best possible investigation and treatment. Mr President, I would like to In order to increase patients' transparency and help them with faster care, we also propose the introduction of national IT support, i.e. a portal where patients get an overall picture of waiting times and availability across the country. It should be possible for patients and relatives to see where the queues are shortest and be able to choose to go there. It will increase patients' choice by allowing them to compare different healthcare providers. In the long term, this will strengthen patient power. As I said earlier, there will be a need for a battery of measures, including the provision of skills in healthcare. The staff is a large part of the key to an accessible care. I will come back to this in the next speech.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-46	Mr President, I would like to Mental ill-health among children and young people in Sweden has increased from 1980 to today. Over the past ten years, there has been a doubling of mental illness in children aged 10 to 17 years. We also see a dramatic increase in the number of younger children treated with antidepressants. Here Sweden stands out in international comparisons with clearly less development than many other countries. Bris testifies to conversations with children that describe different forms of mental illness. It's about anxiety, stress, depression, depression, self-harm and suicide. Mental ill-health is increasing especially among young girls, but other groups are also distinguished in the statistics. Young LGBTQ people are a particularly vulnerable group. In a survey by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, a quarter of young gay and bisexual women say that they have tried to kill themselves, compared with 8% among young women who do not identify themselves as LGBT. Among young transgender people, the statistics are still gloomier. It is 40 percent of transgender people between the ages of 15 and 19 who have tried to take their own lives. According to a new survey carried out by Karolinska Institutet on behalf of the National Board of Health and Welfare, unaccompanied children and young people are also particularly affected. Long processing times, anxiety and insecurity about the future and trauma have caused young unaccompanied minors who have fled here to be particularly vulnerable. When it comes to treating mental illness, we know that early detection, effective care and good treatment are important in order to avoid long-term problems and that the consequences for both schooling and everyday life are too severe. Unfortunately, we also know that, when it comes to getting the right treatment at the right time, we currently have major shortcomings in child and youth psychiatry. Many county councils do not meet the set targets for how long it will take for children and young people to get help, i.e. that 90 per cent of children and young people who apply for care should have a first visit within 30 days. We see how the queues for child and youth psychiatry are growing. During the term of office, the Government has made significant investments in children's and young people's mental health. Since 2016, the Government has allocated approximately SEK 1 billion annually until 2019 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. Already in the spring 2017 budget, funds were added to child and youth psychiatry, including first-line psychiatry in primary care, to increase accessibility and strengthen support and treatment for children and young people. This year, this investment in children and young people with mental health problems will be increased to a total of SEK 250 million. In addition to this, SEK 130 million is allocated to municipalities and county councils to strengthen youth clinics' work on mental health – just to mention some of the initiatives that have been made in recent years. Psychiatry and mental health efforts will be further expanded in the coming years. Last January, the government also presented an investment of SEK 360 million to strengthen staffing in social care for children and young people. Adding money alone does not automatically solve the problems of accessibility. If there are not enough psychologists and counselors in child and youth psychiatry, our children and young people will not get help. There are major problems with staffing and skills provision. For this reason, the government has invested billions during its term of office to address the problems of staffing and skills provision in health care, including through professional billions and patient billions. Among other things, the Government invests in increasing training places to meet the need for staff. The Green Party wants to increase the focus on children's and young people's mental health. We believe that Sweden needs to improve its efforts to prevent mental illness in young people and note that financial vulnerability increases the risk of ill health. A crucial part of the solution to the problems of specialised child and youth psychiatry is to strengthen prevention and early intervention. Children and young people must be able to receive early support and help. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Welfare to improve cooperation between student health, health care and social services in order for children and young people to receive early and coordinated efforts. It is important that these efforts are made, but more needs to be done. This type of action needs to continue to develop. Not a single child who feels bad should wait a day too long for support and help. Despite significant efforts during the term of office, child and youth psychiatry and pupil health have found it difficult to keep up with the increase in mental illness among young people today. We cannot accept that children and young people do not receive the help they need in a reasonable time. More needs to be done.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-62	Mr President, I would like to I have met many reported youths, received emails from desperate parents, and read about young people who in desperation chose to take their lives. Yesterday I got an email from a father. He told me to tell you what he wrote. He starts with the words, and we did everything right, and yet it was so wrong. In his email he describes the terrible, a nightmare for each parent: how his daughter went from being incredibly warm and loving to suffering from dark and destructive thoughts. He tells us how the family struggled to get help, from school, from BUP and also through private caregivers. At the end of the e-mail he writes like this:中 It got better, but at the end of April 2017 Emma had a relapse and tried to take her life. We talked to the BUP and requested an emergency doctor's appointment. She got it in 25 days. On May 9, 2017, she killed herself. Emma was 14 years old. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to It is if Emma is involved in this debate. First of all, how can it be that not only Emma but many more children and young people in Sweden are affected? In one of the richest countries in the world, all children and young people should be well off. But here an epidemic rises. The number of children and young people suffering from mental illness has nearly doubled in ten years. Today, 190 000 children, young and young adults suffer from mental illness. Why, the big question is. We know that children and young people who grow up in homes with one or two parents who live in exclusion and do not have a job are more affected. But it also affects those who have parents with permanent jobs. We know that it affects more of the young people where school is not working, but it also affects young people with good school outcomes. Much indicates that the life that many young people live, constantly connected and without recovery for the brain, greatly increases the risk of mental illness. We know that there is much that we do not know and therefore much that researchers have left to give us knowledge of. But one thing's for sure. If we ensure that the split of Sweden is stopped and more adults come to work, fewer young people will suffer from mental illness. We know that if we get the Swedish school in order so that many more go out with approved grades, the number of young people with mental illness would be smaller. They would be fewer, but there would still be many who feel bad. It is a political responsibility to stop the split of Sweden and ensure that we get a school that works and where the students go out with complete grades. What is also clear is that if children, young people and young adults affected by mental illness could get help early in the process – quickly – it could stop further development of symptoms. The fire is always easier to extinguish when it just fires, before the fire has taken full speed. There's so much more you could do here. Today, those affected by mental illness are quickly referred to children's and young people's psychiatry, with long waiting times, instead of getting simple and quick help on the spot. There are a number of places in Sweden where it works well and there is access to quick, easily accessible help for those suffering from easier mental illness, but the problem is as usual in Swedish care that it is islands. In some municipalities it works well, but in the neighbouring municipality it does not work at all. That must not be the case. Young people who suffer from mild mental illness, regardless of where they live, should receive quick, easily accessible help to get on the right foot. It is a political responsibility. The greatest betrayal of those who, like Emma, have severe problems, who suffer from severe depression, anxiety and anxiety and who must receive qualified help, is that waiting times for the country's child and adolescent psychiatric clinics are totally unacceptable. When the 14-year-old who has tried to take his own life has an emergency time with a doctor 25 days later, it is nothing more than totally unacceptable. No one would accept that a 14-year-old who suffers from cancer should wait at home for almost a month to see a doctor. But in Sweden we accept that a 14-year-old who has suffered severe mental illness should wait 25 days for an emergency period. It wouldn't have to be like this. I am not the one who claims that the Alliance Government did everything right, but we managed to ensure that the queues for the country's child and youth psychiatric clinics were reduced. We set tough demands and targets, and in addition we chose to have a performance compensation for the county councils that delivered. The first thing the left-wing government did was to remove this allowance, and from 2014 the queues have increased every year to child and youth psychiatry. Now you sit passively and wait – wait for what, one might wonder. That we're going to train more psychologists, counselors and child psychiatrists? How many more will be affected before the government takes this issue seriously? Mr President, I would like to It is clear to me and the Center Party that there is a need for a new leadership in Swedish healthcare.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-76	Mr President, I would like to This debate concerns all of us. Some of us know children and young people who are mentally ill to varying degrees. Some of us have worked with children and young people who feel bad. Some of us have felt bad when we were children or young. Today we are going to talk about access to care in child and youth psychiatry. But it is not possible to talk about this in isolation; we must also talk about prevention, the role of preschool and school, health care structures and, not least, the view of welfare and the time to give health workers good wages and good working conditions. Society has an impact on life. The heat to perform in order to be able to go to good school, not get a permanent job but have to wait for a text message, not to get your own apartment or to have parents with substance abuse problems or with mental illness also affects the way it feels. Not fixing the school is a huge thing. We need a school system that does not rush to death the ambitious, a school system that accommodates also the young guys who do not fix school today and who do not have parents who can help them with school. It'll mean a lot if we make it. The good thing today is that many people talk about their feelings. It is a giant step forward, for the stigmatization around mental illness has been enormous. It's partially broken. All over the country there is a shortage of psychologists, specialist nurses and psychiatrists in psychiatry. The staff is the key to a robust child and youth psychology. There we have gone in together with the government and bet, because that's the thing in this. Never before have so many children and young people been helped in child and youth psychiatry as today, despite the alarm reports. It is a question of more and more people seeking and of the fact that there are shortcomings in the system. I will come back to that. When it comes to Mission Mental Health, SKL has done a deep dive in BUP and seen that it boils down to a couple of questions: staffing and recruitment. As far as investigations are concerned, all the clinics consulted have said that investigations are pouring in from the school. It's about wanting a diagnosis. This is something we need to look at. Half of the country's operations have a written assignment. At one end there is a risk of overdiagnosing children and young people, which can lead to overmedication, and at the other end there are children who do not get help on time. We need to develop a national mission for BUP. You on the right say everything's going to be great with a cue billion. We can look at what happened in Stockholm County Council. This is from a SVT report and another report that I have read. One way to make the statistics look better, and thus get more compensation, is to bring in as many new children and young people as possible within the 30 days of the health guarantee. Then the patients are put on ice, and they will have to wait forever for the next visit. This may be the case when politicians call for performance and pressure the systems and do not see the whole – the complex, personnel investments, training efforts, structure and so on. We need to find completely different entrances than child and youth psychiatry. It's about getting another open door. I think it takes national action to find a first-line reception for children and young people – an easily accessible first inje that is clearly identified. No breathing has this extended enough today to meet the needs that exist. It's a huge shortage. We also need a robust school health service. We also need to find risk groups for mental illness to do something much earlier, before children and parents knock on the door of the BUP. Concerns and stress affect children early. Children of addicts and children of parents with mental illness need extra support. How long have we been talking about this? For decades. It is evident that the worse the economy the family is reported to have, the more common is self-reported mental illness in teenagers. Equality is a good thing to invest in in a country. It prevents a lot. And then there's the lonely ones. For the group newly arrived and asylum seekers children and young people, the National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that 20-30 percent of those who come to Sweden suffer from mental illness. There are no patches here, but only amnesty helps here. Constant anxiety and insecurity lead right into psychiatry. You can follow that. There's a lot we have to do before the baby steps into the BUP. We need to review the structures, from grain to loaf. It is not enough just for children's and young people's psychiatry, but for us to look at the school, the preschool and what we can do before. We need to invest in welfare, in education and in staff. It's a basic question. You in the Alliance were in the government for eight years, and then it would have been good if you had put forward a long-term plan when it comes to skills and training provision and spending on staff, because that is the key. What you can say briefly is that tax cuts and a queue billion will not help.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-94	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to start with an email from a young girl I know: This was hard to write, Christina, so fucking heavy, but there has to be a change in care. No one should have to go through what I've been through. What I write is just a small, small part of everything. The words are Linn. She e-mailed me yesterday. She is an amazing girl, who in her email tells about her experiences from both outpatient care and inpatient care. She tells us about suicide attempts, probe feeding and restraint. But she also tells about S who in the outpatients saw, understood and alerted the HVB home, so that Linn was found in time. She wrote: The staff from the HVB home found me after several hours at the train track, with pills in the body, open wounds on the whole body, cooled and the alcohol bottle empty next door. Without her, I wouldn't be alive today. She engaged so much, and everything she did was for my own good. Why are Linn's words so incredibly important in this debate? It's because what she writes about so much is about treatment. The few flashes of light she tells us about in her email are about staff who saw her and who saw her as another fellow human being. Because of eating disorders, she was born. It was something that she experienced as terribly difficult and as a pure abuse – not only the actual force feeding, but also how it was done. She writes: I guess I understood deep down why they did what they did, even though I couldn't get it into my head. But why did they treat me like a vermin, a worthless failed pest? I'll never understand that. We are talking here about the BUP crisis, and this is the result of the BUP crisis. When there is no time, when staff turnover is high, so that few are able to stay, when it is difficult to recruit, then it is the children and young people who are in need of most support who suffer, those who are the most fragile and who suffer the most badly. Mental ill-health is one of the fastest growing public health problems, not only in Sweden but throughout the world. It is increasing in most age groups and in both sexes. Worst is it for children and young adults. It is mainly depression and anxiety disorders that are increasing. There are several reasons for this. Some are about that it is more ok to talk about mental illness. It is also about what was previously solved with family and friends – life crises – but which were not life crises before. That's everything from the fact that the girlfriend broke up with Grandpa. Another thing is about the society in which we live – about stress and getting the puzzle together. Another thing that we often talk about when it comes to children and young people is the Internet and that you are constantly connected and always reachable and that you are always being examined. At the same time, we know that there are socio-economic factors involved in mental illness. We also know that there are protective factors. The most important of them is the school. The chance to feel good is much greater for those who pass the school. We know that the level of education plays a major role in mental well-being. People with post-secondary education are the group where mental illness has not deteriorated in the same way as in other groups. But what is the chicken, and what is the egg? Of course, for those who feel bad, it is much more difficult to concentrate on their studies at the same time. Anyone who has a full focus on survival cannot at the same time be expected to take in equations and the battle of Lützen and to analyze poetry. We also see an increase in the number of so-called home sitters, students who have completely stopped going to school. Alarms come if children who do not receive support or who are not investigated when there is a suspicion of diagnosis. Reports from 2017 show that the waiting time for a neuropsychiatric diagnosis can be two years with an average of between six and nine months. It is about children who do not go to school for this long time. The fact that you do not get the help that you are entitled to and therefore cannot go to school is unworthy and really impossible to accept. Yet that is what it looks like. The approach to diagnosis is also very different. For some it is an explanation, for others it is a prerequisite for giving the right help and sometimes help at all. The latter is something that I have often met – the belief that it must be diagnosed for a student to get support and help. It's not like that. All students are entitled to the support they need, with or without diagnosis. This applies in school, it applies in preschool, and that also applies, of course, in social services. This fact that students must have a diagnosis also leads to the risk of overdiagnosing children. In the report How's the BUP? the risk of overmedication is taken instead. Children who would have needed an in-depth investigation and assessment do not receive the actions they need. We can see that there is a lack of interaction between school health care and county councils. This is important to coordinate. There are municipalities at the forefront. A particularly vulnerable group is the children who live in community care, either in family homes or at HVB homes. It is particularly important here that coordination and collaboration work well. We Liberals have often talked about Skolfam, which exists in many places and which needs to be developed more. We know that these children are particularly at risk of mental illness, both as young people and later in life. We need a well-functioning primary care and first line for children and young adults, a specialist care without queues and an emergency and full-day care that can offer a safe and high-quality care to the severely ill. If we do not get primary care in order at the health centres, we do not get the interaction between different levels in order and we do not get the order on who has what assignment, then we do not get the order of anything.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-115	Mr President, I would like to I hate that I feel so easily. I can't be sad without crying. I can't get mad without hitting something or throwing things. I just feel negative feelings. I don't know why that is. I can't have it like this. I can't stand to cry every day. So says a child according to Bri's report in the petition # psychbryt, one of all the children who themselves do not really know why he or she feels so bad. That's the case with a lot of the kids who feel bad today-- they don't know why they feel bad, and they don't know what to do to feel better. It is our responsibility that they find themselves in the situation where they are today. We have so far in this debate and will continue in this debate to hear when we politicians talk about what we are trying to do and what we have been trying to do since 1980. In fact, from 1980, mental illness among our children and young people has only worsened. Sweden is in so many ways a fantastic country. We have such good conditions. Yet our children and young people are in fact worse off than children and young people in other countries. We will not solve this through today's debate. But today's debate is important because we have a crisis in what is supposed to be the support when children and young people are already feeling bad. Few emails hurt as much as receiving a message from a father who says: Today, three years after we asked for help, we have had an appointment. This also applies to the other examples that we have heard in the debate today about parents who are desperate. In fact, sometimes things have gone so bad that the child was no longer able to live, where no one was able to break the suicide attempt. We have to do more. The Christian Democrats have proposals on how to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and how to ensure that the transition between BUP and adult psychiatry will work better, because many of the children and young people who feel bad are in their upper teens and will continue to feel bad when they enter adulthood. Sometimes it is precisely that unclear adult life, that uncertain future and that hopelessness that you do not know that the future will be light that makes you feel bad. We have suggestions on how to get a coherent child and youth health and strengthen pupil health, so that no kid at any school anywhere will be met by the sign: The school sister is here on Tuesdays at kl. At 11 a.m. to 12.15 p.m. Every day, every kid should be able to know how to get in touch with the student health care. We have suggestions that we should go in earlier and support the families. Somewhere, that's where we have to start. What are the reasons? What is it that makes us, as a country with such tremendous conditions, still have a situation that makes our growing generation feel so bad? We need to look at the foundation. What is lacking in our society? What makes so many feel that hope for the future is not there? We Christian Democrats are convinced that one of the important keys is family. It's only in the family you have the opportunity to get into a context where you're loved unconditionally– where nothing matters, because you're loved exactly for who you are. However, not all children feel that way in their family. Not all parents are able to give that unconditional love. Then society must support and be there, around the parents and around the children, and provide early support. We want it to be mandatory in each municipality to offer parents a parental support programme, and not just in those first years. We give pretty good support to parents when breastfeeding is going to get started, when teeth are going out and when it's whiny and colic and all that that can be pretty tough at the beginning of parenting. But when it comes to the tough journey of parenting teenagers, we are not as good at providing support. It is time to strengthen that support even more. All who become parents for the first time should be offered family counseling, and it should be something natural and something that everyone can share in. Mr President, I would like to We will continue to debate this issue today, and I hope that the social debate will continue on how we can have a society that actually makes it easier to be a child and grow up – so that more people can do it with joy.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the speeches that have been made today in the speaker's chair and for the commitment and seriousness shown regardless of which political party it is in the speaker's seat. We sometimes have different ways and suggestions on how to achieve what we are talking about here today, namely how to ensure that we can really identify the root causes of our young people's worsening and really make changes that can really make a difference. As far as the government is concerned, this has been one of the absolute priorities of its mandate. As several have said, over the past ten years we have had more than a doubling of children and young people who feel bad in Sweden. It is clear that it places enormous demands on the Swedish healthcare system – on child and youth psychiatry, on the specialized child and youth psychiatry and on developing a first-line psychiatry for children and young people that can be reached quickly. During this parliamentary term, we have doubled the funding for psychiatry. We have made a very special effort on student health for this reason. Today, we have 700 more employees in Swedish pupil health compared to the beginning of the term, so that it will be possible to catch early signals and follow children in a different way than we have been able to before. We've sent a quarter of a billion dollars a year to the youth clinics. Most county councils have used this money to hire more psychologists, curators and doctors. I have no confidence that money is what will solve all the problems, but I think we can agree that when needs increase it is much easier to solve complex problems with resources than without. However, I really need to be warned against an overconfidence that a performance-based remuneration will resolve the situation. You know, and I know it's not like that. We need to get to the root of the problem and not engage in cosmetic or simple political moves. I understand that a queue billion – or ten, for that matter – sounds good in political rhetoric, but you know and I know that it was deeply criticised by those who worked in these activities. It led to displacement effects and did not help children with the greatest needs. The increased inequality between county councils across the country. So let us bet on things that really make a difference! Now we invest historically large resources in more staff and better working environment in healthcare so that more people want and can continue working. If we do not succeed in this, ten billion queues will make no difference. We will continue the steps towards ensuring that we have a safe first-line psychiatry that will give those in need of specialist psychiatry real access to it.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-135	Mr President, I would like to In S-controlled Dalarna, fewer than one in three children's and young people's patients receive an in-depth investigation within the promised time. In S-controlled Kronoberg, the number of children in line for investigation and treatment within BUP has increased by just over 300 per cent in four years. In S-controlled Västmanland, fewer than one in three children's and youth patients receive treatment and in-depth investigation within promised time, and in S-controlled Västerbotten and Dalarna, even four out of ten children and young people do not receive an initial assessment within promised time. These are sad results, and there are children and young people with names behind the figures. Mr President, I would like to So that there should be no misunderstanding, I would like to say that even the alliance-led county councils and regions have not been able to live up to the objectives of the guarantee. It is only that it is the worst development in the regions led and governed by the Social Democrats. The development of growing queues for child and youth psychiatry must be broken now, and it must be broken throughout the country. It is possible to achieve a positive turn; it has already been established. The Swedish Municipalities and County Council compiles the development of waiting times in healthcare and psychiatry, and it shows, among other things, the following: In 2014, 16 of 21 county councils managed to offer a first visit to BUP within 30 days for at least 90 percent of patients. In 2017, 3 of our 23 county councils and regions made it. It cannot be a coincidence that the results have deteriorated dramatically after the government actively removed everything that reminds of stimulating and focusing on the results of patients' long waiting periods. We see triple queues to BUP and doubled care queues, and Sweden's care queues are among the longest in Europe. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to be part of taking responsibility for the situation. Children are so important that everyday political bickering must be put aside so that we can focus on what is important. I am concerned that our responsible minister yesterday in this House, in response to a question about care queues from my colleague Emma Henriksson, said: It is important that we can move forward together and take responsibility for the situation we find ourselves in. We Moderates are prepared to take responsibility. When we in the alliance government introduced the queue billions in healthcare and extra performance-based initiatives to shorten the queues to BUP gave it clear results. In 2014, 16 out of 21 county councils managed to ensure that children and young people received an initial assessment within 30 days, and now it is 3 out of 21 county councils. This is a fact. This is the truth. The Alliance government's strengthened care guarantee for more interventions for children and young people with mental illness produced positive results. With the other alliance parties, we want to reintroduce the reinforced performance-based care guarantee within the BUP. That's it. In our budget option, we have proposed a triple queue billion which this time broadens and also includes, among other things, psychiatry and return visits. But there are a number of other things that need to be done, and much has been mentioned from this speaker's seat. When we speak from the Alliance about what needs to be done in child and youth psychiatry, I want the Government to open its ears. The embodiment is just one of all the measures that we are proposing.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-142	Mr President, I would like to As we all know, there is a great shortage of health care staff, and child and youth psychiatry is no exception. There are several reasons why it looks like it does. One reason is that too many people feel that it is not attractive to work in healthcare under the current conditions. I can understand them. I myself have worked in health care for 25 years with shared tours and jobs every other weekend and at times that are difficult when you are going to make a normal family life go together. In addition, pay is relatively low. So I really understand them. But it doesn't have to be like this. With the right conditions, nursing professions can become professions that young people seek. They can become professions that healthcare professionals want to stay within and that you feel proud to work in. They can be a job that you can make a living on and with working hours that involve a working family life. But, of course, measures are needed, such as giving nurses and nurses the opportunity to develop their skills on paid working hours, making the assistant profession a licence profession, as it is in most European countries, and introducing modern working conditions as a full-time right and abolishing involuntary shift jobs and the shared tours. The possibility of phasing out the withdrawal date for health professionals should also be reviewed in the long term. If we are to cope with the skills supply in healthcare in the future and short-term care queues, the working conditions of the staff are absolutely key to this. Mr President, I would like to The situation in healthcare is referred to in the political debate as anything from an accident to a challenge. Of course, we may disagree on what is closest to the truth, but we can all agree that the situation in healthcare is serious when patients are not receiving treatment on time and when staff leave work because working conditions are poor. That, in fact, is what is happening today. During the debate, we have heard a lot of suggestions on how to solve the problems that exist in health care. That is good, and it is something that I and our party will take with us. I myself have put forward some of what we in the Swedish Democrats think needs to be done in order to get an accessible care. But I also know after all the years of care that you should not be so sure that you are always in prison with the answers and solutions to a problem. In fact, often it can be really valuable to listen to what others have to say. Mr President, I would like to Last autumn, Jimmie Åkesson and I invited all party leaders and health policy spokespersons to an unconditional discussion about health care and what we can do together at national level to increase the availability of health care and thereby ultimately reduce patients' suffering. All parties turned down our invitation, which I frankly thought was very boring – not for myself, but mainly for all the patients around the country who put their faith in us politicians to solve the problems that exist in healthcare. Is it not time that we put aside political prestige in favour of this important issue for the Swedish people? In addition, several parties have expressed that it is time for adult dialogue in politics. Our invitation stands for joint discussions across party boundaries on what we can do together, all parties, to improve the situation in health care. That's why I'm asking the question, our invitation stands firm, how do you feel about it?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-154	Mr President, I would like to In order to be able to meet the development with the increased mental illness, we need to have a holistic view of the problem. To achieve the long-term goal of reducing mental illness, we need to focus from the outset on preventive work, an accessible first-line psychiatry and student health and a specialised care with good quality. We want to strengthen student health and first-line psychiatry. Of course, the queues for the BUP need to be shortened, but we also need to ensure that children get the right support even before they need to visit the BUP. When pupils are affected by mental illness, they are affected throughout their lives. Well-being decreases, school results deteriorate and power over life shrinks. Therefore, the government has already invested in student health, and we are now investing SEK 200 million more annually. As a result, 700 more people work at school to strengthen children's and young people's mental health. No child in need of help should have to wait for support. The law does not require a specific diagnosis in order to be entitled to additional adjustments or special support at school. However, it is a problem that in practice such requirements are imposed, which increases the burden on child and youth psychiatry. The Green Party wants to invest more in student health and that student health should become more equal throughout the country. Investing in first-line psychiatry is important to increase the chances of getting help at an early stage before the problems have become so big that specialist care is required. By providing increased resources for primary care and youth clinics, they can be given the opportunity to hire psychologists and curators and quickly identify and treat easily to moderate mental illness, which in turn relieves child and youth psychiatry. It must be quick and accessible for children and young people. In municipalities and county councils, much can be done to improve the work against mental illness. In Stockholm City and County Council, the Environmental Party, for example, wants to offer education on mental illness among children and young people to school staff and associations. We want to increase resources to meeting places for young people and open more meeting places aimed at LGBTQ young people. We want psychologists and therapists with child skills at every health centre and expand the psychosocial range of youth clinics. Finally, if we are to have a well-functioning child and youth psychiatry where those in need of this specialised care will get it without having to wait in long queues, we need to take further action. Access to child and youth psychiatry must be increased. We want to see a reinforced care guarantee so that more young people get help on time. Increased resources will continue to be needed for child and youth psychiatry during the next term of office. The goal is and must be that no child should stand without help. Schools, social services and health care should work more together in identifying and helping young people in need of help.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-164	Mr President, I would like to I think that this debate shows quite clearly the differences in Swedish policy regarding how we view children and young people with mental illness, first and foremost in terms of prevention. There are two areas where we know we can prevent. One is about reducing exclusion and ensuring that fewer families and fewer parents are dependent on benefits. There Sweden is being split – the development is going in the wrong direction. This will lead to more children and young people suffering from mental illness. The second is to ensure that we get a school where more students go out with full grades. There, progress is going the wrong way today. More young people leave school with incomplete grades. This will lead to more people suffering from mental illness. This second area is about what we can do with those affected by mild mental illness. There, almost all the speakers have pointed out that it is important that we strengthen pupil health. That, too, was the entrance of the alliance government. We wanted to make sure to create a good what they call the first line child and youth psychiatry. We also contributed funds to student health. We also strengthened the requirements of the school law. We also invested money in trying to find good solutions in Sweden. We actually did exactly the same things the current government does. I think the amount we spent each year was 200 million. But it hasn't helped. Today it works great in some municipalities, but in others it doesn't work at all. Then we must be prepared to take a structural approach and say: Now we have to reform the system. ..................................................... Whether you live in a social democratic-governed municipality or in an alliance-led municipality, children and young people who feel mentally ill should have the right to quick and easy help, and that will be given to them the same week as they experience the problem. That is why the small problems will not be big and the anxiety will not develop into depression, anxiety and depression. The government could take a big take to make sure that it not only becomes islands but that it works everywhere. I think there would be a great deal of support for this in this House. Mr President, I would like to I get really worried when the government talks about the queues for child and youth psychiatry. They have tripled since 2014. But the government says that it has no responsibility but that the responsibility lies entirely with the alliance government, because it did not ensure that the welfare system received enough money. During our years, 100 billion were added. It is also said that we did not invest enough in education. But when it comes to queues in healthcare, it's not that simple. It scares me a little bit that the government's analysis is that the problem will be solved if we just add enough money and make sure to train more staff. When we look at the queue development in Sweden, in terms of health care and children's and young people's psychiatry, we can see a clear breakpoint. And that's 2014/2015. Then the queues began to pull away in a completely unacceptable way. Mr President, I would like to I wish Minister Strandhäll would visit Qulturum in Jönköping, for example, that she would book two hours with Sweden's top experts on accessibility and that she would ask: is it as simple as I try to say, that it is enough just to train more staff and add money? Is it so easy to shorten the queues? ..................................................... The answer she would get is: There's a need for money, and there's a need for staff. But there is also a great deal more to be done. ..................................................... When we started attacking the queues in child and youth psychiatry, there were BUP clinics where each employee met two patients a day. So it is not just about money and staff. It is also about streamlining the way of working, finding new methods and ensuring that you get good help. Restore performance-based compensations!
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-177	Mr President, I would like to When we have negotiated with the government, one of our tracks has been precisely mental health and child and youth psychiatry. For example, we have negotiated 650 million for this year and 1.15 billion for 2019 and beyond, in order to strengthen BUP and low-threshold options. That's what I'm going to talk about. We have also gone in with funds for youth receptions, which can be seen as a first line and which need to be strengthened. Then you also need to take more national action to do that. Youth centres need to reach more young people and become more accessible. Because they're there. In Sweden there is currently a lack of easily accessible call support, a first line, to catch young people with mental illness. To get it, you need to hire more psychologists and curators. That's why we've been negotiating funds and getting it through. We're happy about that. It is through the low thresholds and the broad competence of psychologists, psychiatrists and nurses that young people can be picked up early. Emphasis on new initiatives may also be placed on self-employment, which is now taking place in several parts of the country. Young adults who feel very bad can themselves request to be admitted. It's important. It also means that they don't have to get so insanely sick. Today there are no alternatives between outpatient care and psychiatric inpatient care. As has been said, patients who are in very poor condition end up in inpatient care. And it is largely about newly ill young adults. We must do much more there. Some localities have today invested a little more in young people who live in social vulnerability and in youth receptions, among other things. We know that young people living in social vulnerability are at risk of poor mental health. There is a clear link there that needs to be looked at more. I will mention some examples in Sweden where good work is going on. Often they are islands. And I, like many of you in this House today, want to take a greater national approach to these issues. It is necessary to talk about the structures. Youth Health in Umeå offers targeted parental support to parents with home-sitting young people aged 16 to 25. Home - sitting youths are a very common and growing problem. And it's hard for parents to know what to do. The youth clinic in Örebro County has a first line for several years. They receive and offer support and treatment to young people with mild and moderate mental illness. We need to do much more to create a first door to knock on for all those who need someone to talk to. But then another thought is needed when it comes to welfare. This means long-term efforts and not tax cuts that drain welfare. More national muscles are needed on these issues. The first line cannot be a freely chosen work for county councils. The left wants to see national action here. The Centers, which have demanded that we have this debate, want to reduce taxes by SEK 30 billion. This compares with all child benefits in the country, which cost 25 billion, or the salaries of 66 000 nurses. The right is happy to talk about the health crisis, but tax cuts and queue billions will never be an answer. You have to look at the bigger picture. We must invest in welfare and in an equal society. It is only then, and when you work with several knives in the box than a queue billion, that we can move forward. It's about prevention, it's about school health care, which I'm going to talk about in my last speech, and it's about catching up children and young people early. You can only do that if you have an expanded welfare.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-189	Mr President, I would like to In my own county, Örebro, BUP conducted 643 investigations in 2017. That's great. But at the same time 500 children are in line for investigation, and the need is growing every year. We have also been told that children and young people are being cared for in adult wards for lack of safe places in inpatient care. However, there are also good things. Here in Stockholm they work with YAM, which is a preventive effort to improve mental health and reduce suicides among school students. And in Örebro there is something called the Deplift. It's about implementing guidelines for depression. For four years Örebro County has gone from being in the top three for suicide among children and young people to being the lowest in the country in 2016. These are good examples that need to be disseminated nationally. We Liberals want to strengthen school health care. The task of student health is to promote and prevent, and we need much more of that. On the other hand, the student health mission is not to cover up for what health centres should do. That is in many respects one of the major problems, and that is where the shortcomings are. The lack of clarity about assignments and the lack of collaboration mean that health centres do not do what they are supposed to do. They are the first line in terms of psychiatry and should take care of children and young people with mild and moderate mental illness. The BUP is and must be a specialist level. That is why we Liberals are investing a great deal in primary care in our budget. As a liberal, I'm souled by the school. It is the basis for most of the time. Because if the school works, most things work. For those students who already feel bad, a messy classroom is impossible to handle. This applies not least to children who have neuropsychiatric problems. They're hit extra hard. But for the school to work, the rest of the chain must also work. And it's not the school's mission to treat children. The school must be able to trust that when you pass children on within the chain there is help to get there. Above all, children need to know that there is help available. I spoke in my first speech on Linn. And yesterday it was six years ago that another Linn, whom I knew, couldn't live any longer. 13-year-old Linn sat in front of the train, because she didn't think there was anyone in the adult world who would listen to her and help her when she had been subjected to terrible abuse online. By telling us where to turn, we are also increasing the chance that more people will turn there. We need to strengthen children's rights to be able to seek health care ourselves. Young people can avoid mental health care when there is a risk that the guardians will find out. This is where the internet is very useful. We often talk about the risks of the network, but there are also good examples. There are apps, meeting places and pages where children and young people can seek help and get in touch with child and youth psychiatry. This applies not least to children and young people who live in different ways on the outskirts of society or who are simply not included. There is also something as simple as what we Liberals have proposed, that student health should ask about exposure to violence. It would reduce stigma and show that it is something that we simply do not accept and that children have the right to receive help. In the same way, we can work with mental health. This shows not least the trials with YAM, which can be likened to a way to learn first aid in the case of mental illness. The more we talk about something, the more we show that there is help to get, the more children and young people will want and be able to seek help and know where to turn.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-198	Mr President, I would like to The reason I feel bad is unknown to me as well. But it may be that there is not one big reason why I feel bad, but that there are several things that are based on it all. For me, it feels like it's better than it's just a big deal. It was another quote from another child in Bri's report. I think this is the way it is. There are many different reasons. It also means that there must be many different solutions that you need to seek in order for more children and young people to avoid starting to feel bad and for more children and young people, when they feel bad, to get the help they need. It is clear that political decisions here play a major role. I find it sad when we hear in the debate: you just want to reduce the tax. Yes, the Christian Democrats have a smaller tax charge from the citizens of our budget. At the same time, we have 150 million more in this particular area than the government. I don't want to stand here beating my chest and saying that our 150 million would solve this problem. I don't think that would be true. We know that more money is not enough. That says the survey where you have looked at how BUP works around the country, Mission mental health. There we have tried to find out what we need to do and how to work better. At the same time we can see that in quite a few places you actually work worse. Over the past few years, it has become worse at meeting needs, and it is serious. It cannot be waved away by saying: yes, but we want to do other things. What you're suggesting here doesn't work. No, it doesn't work alone, but we know that when we focus on every kid who needs help getting it right away, then more people get help right away. We need to spend the money better. We need to work better to help children and young people. One important thing that we did during our years in government was to think differently about support for children and young people. We set up umo.se, the youth reception online. We saw that some youths did not want to go to the physical youth clinic. You got better help if you could use the channels you were connected to – sometimes a little too much of 24:7. However, it is important that it is available on children's and young people's terms. But then we have to get back to what is the basis. What is the reason why, although we are doing so well, are we feeling worse and worse? Then you have to look at the first few years of life. What do we give our children and young people for opportunities and support? What opportunities do we give them to just be children and do as they are? How do we enable them to develop into safe individuals? There, support for parents is crucial. The size of children's groups in preschool is also crucial. Preschool is very good for many children. There are children who feel better with another form of care, but preschool is what most children go to. And there are the groups for the smallest children too big.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-206	Mr President, I would like to We're going to have a really good specialized psychiatry for kids and young people. But the vast majority, unlike today, must be able to get good help without having to get there – at school, at the health centre or at the youth clinic. The specialist psychiatry should not be the first stop. We must all be able to agree on this. This must be the case in order for those who really need the specialised psychiatry to be able to get there and for the resources to be sufficient. I'm not gonna stand here and score cheap points on kids and young people who feel bad. My goal as Minister of Social Affairs is to pursue a policy that really solves the basic problems. I'm not going to go into cosmetic whale propaganda. We basically have a health care that is not built for the ill health that we see in Sweden now, which is dominated by a mental illness. Health care in Sweden today focuses more on pain in the body than on mental illness. There we must rebuild and invest more, not less, in welfare. I can get tired of the simplification that I hear in the debate here from Camilla Waltersson Grönvall from the Moderates. Gotland, Kalmar, Östergötland and Skåne are S-led county councils that sometimes collaborate with C and L. These measures have been best met in terms of accessibility. That is not what this is about; it is about us having to do the right things now, in the light of what we really know. And there's not a queue billionaire road.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-210	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone who has listened to this debate has been able to fail to hear that the Moderates and the Alliance want to reintroduce a performance-based cue billion. Furthermore, we propose to Moderates that it be extended to tripled. But we need to make a number of other efforts as well. We want, among other things, to develop a national strategy to strengthen psychiatry and reduce mental illness, not unlike the one introduced by the Alliance when Sweden's first comprehensive national cancer strategy was introduced. We also want to give priority to health promotion and disease prevention. We want to improve the conditions for more cooperation between psychiatry and other somatic care, school health care, the police and social services. We want to re-establish medical management responsibilities in psychiatry. We want to strengthen the continuity of psychiatry. Most patients experience increased safety and quality in their care if there is a regularity in who they meet as a patient. We also want to encourage greater cooperation between psychiatry and the non-profit sectors, such as sports associations and the cultural sector. In addition, I would like to press the student health care once again because I have a lot of experience from it. Another example is the first line. I would also like to stress the importance of pre-school education and the need to look further at the BVC and so on. Mr President, I would like to It is somewhat frustrating that such a debate about triple queues for child and youth psychiatry should even take place. But I think the debate has been good, and I would like to thank all the co-debaters for their great commitment. I think we have had very little of the cheap points, but instead, as I said, a great deal of commitment. Let us make this debate a starting point for joint action now to meet all the children and young people who feel very bad, which one should not have to do in Sweden!
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-217	Mr President, I would like to None of the county councils in Sweden reached last year's goal that everyone in child and youth psychiatry should receive an initial assessment within 30 days. As we have heard, the queues have grown above all in the last two years, and this has led to major deterioration for children and young people. The situation with growing queues is similar in the rest of the health care system. This makes me very concerned, and surely you too. As I said earlier in the debate, you should not be so sure that you yourself are in prison with all the answers and solutions to the problems. Usually it can be really good to listen to each other. Others may also have good suggestions that can be learned from. I am absolutely convinced that all representatives in here from all parties and from the government want the best interests of patients. But once again, it is a question of putting aside political prestige for patients' right to a high-quality, accessible care. To conduct politics in ways other than listening to each other does not benefit patients. We have a responsibility towards patients in this country to ensure in every way that they receive the best possible health care. We do not do this by pushing our foreheads against, or perhaps even throwing untruths at each other. Rather, we do it by listening to each other and conducting conversations in an adult way. This is probably something that we should all think about when we leave the Chamber after the debate. Patients in Sweden, young and old, should be entitled to an accessible care of the highest quality. It is our duty as politicians to deliver it. Anything else would be a betrayal. I would like to thank everyone involved for the debate. I think we've kept a good note.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-223	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, 35 000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden. Since then, they have been affected by extremely long processing times and have had to wait for information on residence permits for several years. Many have been 18 years old in the meantime and are therefore more likely to reject their asylum applications than if they had been dealt with in a reasonable time. Concern and insecurity about the future of being rejected to one of the world's most dangerous countries and traumas have caused young unaccompanied minors who have fled here to be particularly vulnerable to mental illness. A survey carried out by Karolinska Institutet on behalf of the National Board of Health shows that mental illness is very widespread. Last year, 12 unaccompanied young people took their lives. This is a very big problem and we need to act. The government has so far taken a number of measures to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors, such as the establishment of a national knowledge centre for unaccompanied minors up to 21 years old. The centre is located under the National Board of Health and Welfare and will work with the dissemination of knowledge. It will gather and disseminate up-to-date knowledge, clarify how laws and regulations are to be applied and make visible efforts to develop collaboration between social services, healthcare and schools. The government has invested extra in trauma care for asylum seekers and new arrivals and is also working on a new unaccompanied team that will allow most unaccompanied persons from 2015 to have a new chance to stay. The Green Party wants to see how the situation of unaccompanied young people can be further improved. This applies not least to mental illness, suicide prevention and increased right to care. The growing mental illness is a waste of human and financial resources. For the Green Party, it is self-evident to work to ensure that everyone has the chance to live a socially sustainable life. Every young person's right to life and health should be highly valued. Thank you for the debate.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-228	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say a few words to Karin Rågsjö from the Left Party. It is not as simple as that if you raise the tax you get more money and if you lower the tax you get less money. During the Alliance's time in power, the tax was reduced by 140 billion, but 100 billion extra came to municipalities and county councils to perform well-being for. I also have a few words for Maria Ferm of the Green Party. The unaccompanied are a group that is extremely hard hit by mental illness, but they have become so because of decisions made by the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. Never forget it! Finally, I would like to say a few words to Annika Strandhäll from the government. I think there are some areas in which we can make a broad agreement that could benefit children who have suffered from mental illness. It is first and foremost a question of first-line child and youth psychiatry. I am absolutely convinced that it is not enough there to dunk state subsidies and such measures. Both the alliance government and this government have tried it. Structural approaches must be found here to find a model that works across the country. We must take a national responsibility for this, as the Alliance and the government could do together. It is also clear to those who see the development of queues in Swedish healthcare, not least in children's and young people's psychiatry, that a trend break occurred when the performance-based compensations were removed. I do not think for a moment that it will solve the whole problem if they are reintroduced, but it would be a simple measure that would help to make things a little better. However, other things are also needed. We could have a much better debate if you could accept that you did the wrong thing in 2014– 2015. Do it again, do it right! It would not remove the queues, but they would be considerably shorter. Thank you for the debate.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-234	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to make some suggestions along the way. Investigate a cohesive child, pupil and youth health care! This would lead to more equal access to health promotion throughout childhood, regardless of place of residence, choice of school or health care provider. There is a need for a comprehensive child and youth health system with a joint mission for the school, social services and health care. Introduce national commitments for first-line psychiatry! This cannot be freely chosen work in county councils. Psychiatry should work with standardised care in areas where national guidelines exist in the same way as in other healthcare services. We need a long-term action plan for the area of mental health with measurable targets at national level. Review the conditions for expanding and strengthening primary care skills to meet the increasing mental illness! It is time to review the county councils' diagnosis of adhd. It's different between them. We need to see how this affects aid and support measures at national level. Children of parents with mental illness and substance abuse problems should be guaranteed their own help. A national self-selected approach shall be ensured.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-242	Above all, we must invest in staff, through training, good wages, good working hours and power over their jobs. Strengthen all incentives for equality! Increased gaps mean increased mental illness. Several entrances are needed to this entire area. The sad thing about this debate is that the queue billions of bourgeois people are number one. It's a total flaw, I think. I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-246	Mr President, I would like to Knowledge and research are needed to meet vulnerable groups. I think of children in community care as well as LGBT people and disabled people. This also applies not least to children who have been on the run: asylum seekers, unaccompanied and hidden. There is also a need for knowledge of what forms mental illness takes. Self - injury through sex is more common than many think. What teenager brings it up? We have to do it. In order to prevent what we are seeing today, where young people's mental illness is increasing, and to ensure that it is not an avalanche, we must work preventively. We need to get a primary care that works. We must succeed in getting staff to both apply to and stay within the BUP. Knowledge of mental illness must be increased at all levels of society. The fact that a disease is not visible on the outside does not mean that it does not exist. A broken soul needs care the same way as a broken body. I will end with Linn's words – the Linn who, thankfully, is still alive, because she was found: Why can't you treat people like humans? Why do young people clot hard drugs because it is much easier than helping them? Why are you being treated so badly because you're sick? Why is my human dignity reduced because I am mentally ill? Why does everyone think that everything you do is done to get attention, just because it is not visible on the outside? Why? I would like to thank you for the debate. I want to thank the Center for inviting it. I would like to thank the Government who participated and everyone else. I do not think that the debate is in any way over just because we are leaving the Chamber today.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-251	Mr President, I would like to I can't deal with myself anymore, I don't even know who I am. It is my third quote today from Mr Bri's report on children and young people who turn to them because they feel that there is no closer to them that they can, want or dare to turn to. It says something about where we have to start digging to break the development that we have seen going in the wrong direction for decades. This debate is a good one. It is important that we talk about how big, complex and comprehensive the problem is. It is an incomprehensible paradox that we are getting better and better, but that those who grow up in all this are feeling worse and worse. I have mentioned in the debate some of the many proposals made by the Christian Democrats. I have mentioned what we have done in the past and what we will continue to do to break the trend. Perhaps one of the most important proposals is that we should – it sounds very bureaucratic – set up a national action plan and set up a proper investigation to find the causes. I think that's where we have to start. We will continue to invest in strengthening pupil health, strengthening child and youth psychiatry, supporting up in preschool and supporting the parents of those who feel bad right now to get help right now. But in order for us to deal with the developments we have in the long term, we need to be better at finding the causes from the day we are born. We will do that to make you feel so good that you say like a woman I met a few weeks ago: I love getting old! To love to grow old, you must first love to live. Thank you very much for today's debate.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very good debate, and thank you for your commitment! Although we want to make a number of different efforts, we are all jointly committed to this issue. We agree that we must do everything we can and use our entire toolbox to prevent, prevent and provide rapid support and do so at the right level. I would also like to thank the staff working in psychiatry with children and young people. They're seeing more people today than they've ever done. They meet more and do more, but the needs are increasing faster. Here we have a responsibility. The government is making major investments in this area. During our term of office, we have doubled our efforts to improve mental health. We specifically target support and special resources for children and young people. It is important for children and young people to feel good and get help here and now. Now we are building up a first line of care, which is largely lacking today, for children and young people suffering from mental illness. We strengthen specialized psychiatry so that the children who are in the worst state can get help quickly. But – and this is crucial – we are also working hard on both preventive work and early interventions against mental illness. That's how we work to make no child feel bad one day too long. It is a crucial issue and a high priority for the government. I do not believe in simple solutions to complex problems. I also accept with a warm hand the hand that has been stretched out of the alliance parties to see what common ground we can find ahead. Thank you for a very good debate.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-267	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation if he believes that major industrial efforts can be carried out that create thousands of new jobs in northern Sweden, strengthen local forest owners and give us a leading position when it comes to using the forest to produce renewable materials. Helena Lindahl has also asked if the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation thinks that investments in biorefineries are important and what the Minister and Government will do to ensure that the state can secure the supply of Swedish forests to these industries. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Sweden will show leadership in implementing the Paris Agreement, the Convention on Biological Diversity and Agenda 2030. Sweden will demonstrate that it is possible to combine ecological sustainability with welfare, justice and development. Swedish industry should be the leader when climate change, globalisation and digitalisation require a rapid transition. The Innovation Council's collaboration programme has initiated a number of initiatives to ensure that Swedish industry will develop tomorrow's attractive products and attract foreign investments. The transition from a linear and fossil-based to a circular and bio-based economy is one of several measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to meet common targets and commitments. The development of new biorefineries is one of several measures in the conversion process. Innovations will enable new bio-based products to compete with fossil counterparts. Forests in Sweden have a major role to play in the transition to a circular and bio-based economy and a fossil-free Sweden. In a growing bioeconomy, we need to ensure sustainable yield of forest raw materials that also ensure biodiversity and social values. Forestry is one of Sweden's basic industries that together with other economic activities contribute to the country's overall prosperity. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. There is a need to develop both of these elements. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and to phase out fossil energy. The Swedish Forest Board has estimated the highest sustainable felling volume at around 95-100 million cubic metres per year for the period 2020-2029. At the same time, the level of felling over the last five years has varied by between 86 and 93 million cubic metres per year. Under current conditions, there is limited scope to increase the level of felling. The Government considers that the process of developing a national forest programme in dialogue with all forest stakeholders will have an impact on the development of and conditions for forestry. The vision for the forest programme – and the green gold – will contribute with jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country, as well as the development of a growing bioeconomy, will guide us in this. My hope is that the government's combined efforts in the field of forestry, not least through the national forest programme and the efforts to protect forests, will make positive progress towards the equal goals. The government prioritises climate work and jobs. The government has also adopted strategies with measures for smart industry and increased exports. The government therefore welcomes investments that contribute to a fossil-free future that creates jobs throughout the country.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-276	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. Replacing oil and other fossil raw materials is a prerequisite for achieving environmental objectives and achieving environmental change. In Domsjö outside Örnsköldsvik in Västernorrland there are plans for how it could be done. That's where you want to build a biorefinery. It is estimated that it will cost 15 - 22 billion. Conflicting signals from the government about logging have led to the fact that the design has now been put on ice. If you in Domsjö cannot take out 8 million cubic metres of additional Swedish forest each year, you cannot carry out the initiative. according to the site manager Lars Winter, at least not in Sweden. It is unfortunate not least because such an effort would contribute to a necessary shift from a fossil to a more climate-smart society with products based on forest raw materials, such as fabrics and fuel. In addition, the initiative would provide several thousand jobs. As the Minister for Rural Development knows, such opportunities do not prevail in northern Sweden. Today, for example, there is an increased demand for textiles. There are different ways to go here. Either an increased production can take place via, for example, a fossil-based polyester or you can use a sustainable fibre on raw material from the forest, i.e. cellulose. Do you know that washing clothes containing polyester creates microparticles? They eventually enter the oceans. In the oceans there is already a large amount of plastic, which is frightening. Yesterday while I was preparing for the interpellation debate, I read in the online magazine Fiskejournalen that 8 million tonnes of plastic end up in the oceans every year. If man continues to spread plastic in nature at the same rate as we do now, the sea will consist of more plastic than fish by 2050. Is it not right, then, to replace polyester if we can now do so, for example from the forest? In view of what I have said, I would like to ask the Minister: Do the Minister and the Government think that we should increase the forest set-aside in Sweden in order to switch to a more sustainable society and to be able to invest in biorefineries such as in Domsjö, for example?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-282	Mr President, I would like to The Domsjö project is a very interesting project. I'm familiar with it and I'm going to come back to it a little bit. It requires a lot of raw materials, but it also requires an enormous amount of capital. There are many different parameters that need to fall into place in order for the project to go to the finish. Biomass can be taken to some extent from agriculture and to some extent from the sea. But it is mainly in the forest biomass is available. If we are to become the first fossil-free welfare country in the world, which is the ambition of 2045, we need to have a greater yield from the forest, get the biomass from there and use it not only to build with. It is about using the forest for plastics, textiles and composite materials. There are a number of new products made today from oil that can be made from forests. As far as property rights are concerned, I would like to state very clearly that it is constitutionally protected. It is protected in Government form 2 Kap. Section 15. If you take something from someone, I've learned since childhood that you replace it. The government is behind this and nothing else. It is a very harsh wording about the ownership of the constitution we have. Then there are other legislation that affects how to act on these issues. The previous government had a bill, Forest Borders, which was presented in 2009. At that time, it confirmed that the permit requirement in the Forest Protection Act for felling in mountain forest would remain. Here you could have changed it, but you chose not to. Now we stand there that we have a number of legal proceedings going on, and we have authorities looking at how to deal with the issue. As a minister, I cannot go into those processes when they are going on. However, should it turn out that the legislation is contrary to the Constitution, I am prepared to act and change it. I would like to point out that we are in broad political agreement in Parliament and in Parliament's parties that we should protect another 150 000 hectares. We still have 90 000 hectares to protect. It is a commitment that the Center Party hopefully still supports.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Development, for the clarity about increased withdrawals from the forest and ownership! I believe in the Minister for Rural Development and possibly the Social Democrats. But I doubt that this would be the view of the whole government. I'll tell you why. According to the newspaper Dagens Industri, more and more planned fellings are being stopped. It is a forestry policy that is in fact quite incompatible with the plans in Domsjö, for example. As I said earlier, the plant would consume up to 8 million cubic metres of timber per year. This means that the yield from the Swedish forest, which is currently around 85 million cubic metres, needs to increase by about 10 percent. If you look at the growth of the forest, that is quite possible. But the question is: is there the political will of the whole government? It is clear that the plans in Domsjö are politically charged. It seems that there is a conflict between the S and the MP on environmental policy. Prime Minister Löfven himself has visited Domsjö. He is well aware of what is planned there. In addition, he has stated on several occasions that he is in favour of an increased harvest of forests. The policy pursued by the government as a whole and implemented by its authorities points in a different direction. Some fifteen forest owners from my own home county Västerbotten from the inland can now not decide over their forest as the state has pointed out that there are high natural values in their forest that they want to harvest. Unfortunately, they also do not receive any compensation from the State. It's been customary. But apparently it doesn't seem that way anymore. Kammarkollegiet does not want to pay compensation and claims that there is no ongoing land use in those areas. But please, it takes 80 to 100 years for the forest to grow up! Then there would be no land use anywhere in the area of forests. This has now resulted in forest owners suing the state. This is precisely the kind of thing that helps you not dare to go further with the investment of, for example, a biorefinery in Domsjö and that causes many forest owners to worry. The government's internal battles on forest issues create uncertainty for forest owners. It has gone so far that the huge billion-dollar investment in a huge biorefinery in northern Sweden, as has been said, is now on ice. Here the government has a responsibility. It does not hold that the Minister for Rural Development promises that forest owners will feel safe and that more withdrawal from the forest will be possible when we have an environmental minister who says the opposite. She says that the state should be able to stop just as many repercussions as you want without paying compensation if the money is not enough. You are a government, but you agree with double agendas that are incompatible with each other. In fact, you'll have to agree on what's going to apply. Therefore, my question is: what is the government's overall message here?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-296	Madam President, I would like The forest has historically meant a lot to Sweden. Looking back to the beginning of the 20th century, you can see that Sweden was one of Europe's poorest countries. What happened after that was that industrial development, not least the forest industry, lifted this country to become one of the richest countries in the world. This is how it must continue; we have not made it through now. Sweden is an industrial nation. We are an industry nation with research and work a lot with innovative solutions. We must move forward and use the forest in a smart way, and then we must also have raw materials from the forest. There, ownership is an important part, for more than half of Swedish forests are privately owned. This is the view of the government. We follow the Constitution and the form of government and nothing else. As far as the legal proceedings are concerned, Mrs Lindahl knows that I cannot go into them as Minister of State. Nevertheless, Madam President, I would like to make you aware that when the Alliance Government got the law in place in 2009, something else could have been done. I am also standing here and saying that if it turns out when the processes are completed that this is contrary to the Constitution, I am prepared to change the legislation, but I cannot go into this yet. Madam President, I would like I think it is worth noting that the proposal on the objective of forest protection was presented to Parliament by an environmental minister and a rural minister, both of whom were centre parties. Now the honourable Member and the centre party, Lindahl – and I have even heard party leader Annie Lööf do so – are accusing us of dealing with this in an unspeakable way. I think there are reasons for some self-criticism.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-300	Madam President, the Minister for Rural Development. Kammarkollegiet said in 2016 that the affected forest owners in Västerbotten inland would not be paid. It's been over a year. It was then decided to sue the state. If the government is clear about property rights, as the Minister says, why is ownership being eliminated by authorities that the government can be clear about and write regulatory letters to? If the money is not enough to dispose of all the land, you simply have to choose the jewels in the crown. Just as Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said in his previous speech, I am also taught: You feed your mouth after your lunch. You can't scan yourself more than you can afford to pay for. In an interpellation debate with my moderate colleague from Västerbotten, Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog said that more land with high natural values must be set aside. But she also said, note well, that the state would not be able to afford to replace all landowners for this. This means in practice that forest land is confiscated, and then I think the common line that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that the government has broken down. It's cracking. My question is: does the Minister agree with Karolina Skog on this? In regional newspapers in Västerbotten, the Minister's colleague Isak From speaks of ownership and says that it should be protected. He points out that it is important for the Social Democrats that forest owners should receive compensation if their land according to the state is to be disposed of. How does that fit with what the Minister for the Environment says? It's for me a riddle. It is important that the Minister is clear with his answer, perhaps not for my sake but for the forestry industry in Sweden.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-304	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is trying to give a picture of the importance of compensation for landowners, and that is it. That's why the government has raised the compensations from 1.5 billion you to just over 1.7 billion. The Centre Party's budget bill has a half billion less in compensation over the next two years. At the same time, you stand here and say that it is important to replace the landowners – when you spend less money! It does not stick together, Madam President, to act in this way. There are two different messages you leave here. The investment on Domsjö is a very interesting investment. But it is also extremely capital intensive. It is up to 22 billion to invest, so it will not only take raw materials but also a substantial amount of money to do this. I know that the raw material will be available; it will be able to be extracted from the Swedish forests. We have a growth in our Swedish forests of about 125 – 130 million cubics annually, and we are far less affected than that. If we are to be able to enter a bio-based economy, we must also include biomass, and we must take it from the forest.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-306	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me if, in view of the fact that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's annual measurement of retirement homes across Sweden, I have shown that private actors in the care of the elderly work better than municipal authorities, I am prepared to proceed with the proposals proposed in the Welfare Investigation even though this would have a huge negative impact on the private actors. It may be assumed that Lotta Finstorp in her question refers to the National Board of Health and Welfare's unit survey on elderly care and municipal health care from 2017. The National Board of Health and Welfare does not make its own assessment of whether the quality is better or worse in either form of operation, but rather that some indicators have a higher value for one form of government. It is therefore not possible to draw such far-reaching conclusions from this study that private retirement homes would be better than public ones. There are a number of comparisons that have been made between public and private activities that show relatively small average differences in outcomes. In the school system and in the care of the elderly, the measurements show that municipal managers often have higher values of structural measures such as staff density and level of education among staff. Municipal comparisons between employment terms and salaries in private and municipally driven care for the elderly from 2016 show that municipal managers have fewer temporary employees and fewer part-time employees and pay higher salaries compared to private actors in elderly care. Even non-profit-making companies in the sectors tend to have a higher staff density than profit-making companies. In Famna's Quality Report 2017 on Quality Work in Care for the Elderly, the analysis results show that nursing staffing is significantly higher in the idea-based sector compared to commercial operators, while the public sector has significantly higher staffing of nursing staff than the commercial sector. However, in some areas, private-sector activities have higher values for different process measures such as the existence of quality management systems. The existence of routines alone does not automatically mean that an activity has better quality. However, the routine can be part of the quality system that improves the ability to follow that part of the process. The Government intends to ensure that public funding is used for precisely the activities for which it is intended and in such a way as to benefit children, pupils and users. The government has made it clear that individual actors will continue to be part of the welfare system. By ensuring good financing and reducing the presence of short-term profit interests in private welfare, the Government estimates that the risk of future business closures is reduced. In the long run, therefore, predictability in the sector can increase, which benefits owners, employees and users, whether they are women or men. As I mentioned earlier, in recent years' reports on staff density and care salaries show that private operators generally both have lower staff density and offer lower salaries than public-run operations. Reinvesting the bulk of a possible surplus from public funds in the business creates the conditions for developing the quality of operations and improving the conditions for those who work in the welfare sector. The surplus can be used to increase staff density, to increase continuity and to improve salaries and other conditions for employees, instead of disappearing into other ways, such as dividends to owners.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In the answer, there are many questions, I think. For example, the Minister writes that there are relatively small average differences in outcomes between publicly operated and non-publicly operated activities. This raises new questions, because what is the problem then? It would be good if the Minister could come back to that later. I chose the National Board of Health and Welfare's inquiry, because it is an authority and therefore should be objective in what is highlighted. I thought that we could then have a discussion and a debate on the issue that is not about the truth of the survey and what figures have been used and so on. It was entirely conscious that I chose the National Board of Health and Welfare. I can also note that there is a lack of national principles on how quality should be measured and reported, which is actually a problem in itself, because then it is the case that different studies are handled in different ways. I look at the healthcare companies, who have produced quality declarations so that every welfare company can openly account for the quality work of the business. One might imagine that somehow it was made even clearer at national level for those who want to choose school, care for the elderly, etc. The fact that healthcare, school and care work and offer high-quality activities is important for us citizens. It is with our tax money that these activities are run, whether in public or non-public. Care queues, lack of places and long waiting times create great suffering for many and also create costs that could be avoided. Now I have noticed that the government has lifted the healthcare sector because, after analysis – I take it as my starting point – it has discovered that there would be major problems if they were to put this profit cap even on private-run health care activities. What I would like to highlight is the National Board of Health and Welfare's study which shows that the quality of housing is higher in non-publicly operated businesses. In 18 out of 27 quality parameters that have been measured, the private alternatives are more assertive than the municipal ones, and that is exactly as the report says: there is no way to draw big gears on what has come out here. I think that the actual debate on welfare gains has focused more on money than on quality. Many studies show that those who use these activities and, for example, go to a free school or live in a privately driven retirement home are satisfied with the treatment and quality they receive. I would have liked the government to have focused more on quality than on the ideological part, which is about companies not running welfare activities. Today I read on Facebook about a woman, Helena Dyrén, who for eleven years has run a popular preschool in Strängnäs municipality. She is incredibly concerned about what would happen to her business and about perhaps going bankrupt if your proposal becomes a reality. What does the Minister say to all the people who are skilled in running non-public activities? And what does the Minister say to all the worried parents and children and to those who have an elderly care run in an alternative form? What does the Minister say to all these people who are very worried?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the issue, for the debate and for the commitment to welfare issues! We have debated these questions several times, and at every opportunity it becomes clear that Lotta Finstorp and also other representatives of the Moderate Coalition Party are so careful to distinguish the issue of quality in welfare from issues relating to employee conditions. This is contrary to the research available in this area. It is not possible to separate the question of the condition of nurses from the question of quality in care for the elderly. If we want good care for the elderly and high quality of our homes for the elderly and in home care, we must ensure that the nurses and the other staff groups working within the businesses have the best possible conditions. These conditions are affected by salaries, other conditions of employment and staffing. Both me and Lotta Finstorp understand that if you want to maximise profits in an operation where around 80 per cent of the cost consists of personnel costs, you reduce staffing, and that is exactly what has been allowed to happen. Who pays the price for lower staffing, Madam President? In addition to the staff who are allowed to work under tougher conditions, it is ultimately the user who gets the quality affected by a prize hunt in elderly care. My duty and that of Lotta Finstorp to the citizens and taxpayers is therefore to ensure that we get the most out of the tax money that we force them to pay into the state and the municipality. Do we have tools for that today? No – unlike the rest of the Nordic countries, the rest of Europe and the Western world, we do not have a regulatory framework that ensures the right use of resources, but actually allows unlimited withdrawals from schools, preschools, elderly care and social activities. We allow commercial operators to enter, we allow them to reduce staffing and we allow them to remove tax revenue from the business. Is that good? No, that's not good. Is it me and Lotta Finstorp who pay the price for this? No, it is they who work in the business, the nurses who, at low wages, work every day and make Swedish welfare possible. These are the users who rarely have a voice in this House. They have no lobby organisations, Madam President, which release reports after reports. The voice of dementia sufferers from our retirement homes is not heard in this debate, but it is the lobbyists who set the tone. My duty and Lotta Finstorp is to stand up for the public interest. We will take into account the perspectives that are not heard in the lobbyists' agenda and ask ourselves what we can do to make the dementia sufferer at the retirement home in one of our municipalities a little better and so that the assistant nurse who has seen her colleagues can get fewer can get a little better conditions and a few more colleagues o r. Is it so provocative, then, that this government is determined to put forward a proposal for this House to take a position on the idea of investing more of our tax money in nurses? Is that so provocative, Madam President?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-334	Madam President, I would like It is so obvious in this debate that there is a dividing line between Social Democrats and Moderates. To be elected by trust means precisely to protect those from whom you have been entrusted. It is the people out there, the children in free schools and municipal schools, the elderly who live in different types of retirement homes that are run by different actors – one, the third and the fourth. To then become so firm and paint into a corner ideologically, as I feel the Social Democrats have done, is sad. I would like to read out what the Swedish National Audit Office has written in its opinion. It is astounding that it is premature – as the investigation does – to dismiss the possibility of setting clearer and more detailed quality requirements on companies as an alternative to profit limitation. In addition, it appears that the investigation has not sufficiently analysed the public financial impact of the proposal. It is premature that you do not try to look at whether it is possible to measure quality instead. It would help many municipalities, regions and county councils if measured. Although the proposal exists, it is to be hoped that non-public activities will remain. Now there are investigations that show that there will be few such a thing left. The signals from the Reepalu investigation have led to a radical decline in female entrepreneurship in Sweden since last year. I'll show you statistics later. This must be taken into account because many of the welfare companies are women. It's all connected. The signals you send out mean that a man as a woman, of course, thinks about– it is often we who think a step further when we start a business– if you will dare to start the business. You might say, as she who owns a preschool in Strängnäs will say, that you do not know if you dare to continue or start because you will not make it financially. Those are the signals you're sending out. It is premature that you do not look at the possibilities of setting more detailed quality requirements. That is exactly what the common people want us to do, not act so that mother's retirement home cannot remain because you ideologically do not want it to exist. We must find tools, as the Minister says, that measure quality so that tax money can enter that business. We all agree on that. No one wants tax-fifflers to run welfare companies. That is the point you should have looked at instead. This is preposterous. Some nurses have started a home care company, and they call me and say they don't dare bring in any more employees. They say that if the Reepalu investigation becomes a reality, they cannot continue with the company. Are those the effects you want? How will municipalities and county councils manage to take over all those patients, pupils etc. who today have unpublicly driven care or school? How will municipalities and county councils manage this? There are huge numbers of people to be accommodated in the public sector. I've always been a protector of municipal self-government. You've got so much whip on this proposal! I think it is the Law Council that is taking up the fact that you are also putting municipal self-government out of play. The municipalities cannot choose for themselves who should be the performers.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-342	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by reminding Lotta Finstorp that her party has pushed through legislation in this House which is called forced-LOV. This means that we force our county councils to implement a certain form of establishment and organisation of primary health care. It is definitely a radical restriction of municipal self-government. When the government wanted to investigate the effects of the forced-LOV and the restriction of municipal self-government, the parliament – with the Moderates at its head – prohibited that question from being asked. Through announcements, the Riksdag acted in order to get the government not to investigate the question, not to ask the questions – some kind of thought ban. This is how the majority of Parliament today relates to municipal self-government. The issue is not so complicated, Madam President. Should there be regulations to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on welfare and on care for the elderly, that if the surplus arises, the money is reinvested in the staff, our nurses, or should we allow commercial companies, in order to maximise profits, to reduce, for example, the workforce in the care of the elderly and to withdraw tax money from the business? For the government, the answer is self-evident. We have a duty to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on what it is intended for. We do not have the regulations or the tools today to ensure this. It shouldn't be a right-left question. It is also not a right-wing – left-wing question in the electorate. A majority of moderate voters want to severely limit the benefits of welfare. It is not liberal-conservative to protect waste in public activities or leakage from public activities. It is a little strange that the Moderate Assembly Party has ended up in a position to defend the waste in the NKS and want to continue to allow leakage from the care of the elderly. Private companies have a tremendously important part in our well-being, social development and economy, but that cannot mean that we politicians should allow private companies to take money to go to elderly care and nurses and distribute it in profit. That is not the purpose of collecting tax money from the citizens. We are taking in tax money to jointly and severally finance some of the services that are important to citizens, including elderly care. Then we can't defend leaks from the care of the elderly. A majority of moderate voters want to limit welfare gains because they remember the Caremaskan Valley, the JB bankruptcy and the reports of maladministration due to the lack of the regulatory framework we are discussing. Should we turn to the users and staff and say that we are failing to deal with the problems that have been brought to our attention for decades? Or should we be able to take the step and stand up for the public interest against all lobbyists who are now fighting for us not to limit profits in welfare? The Swedish people deserve a parliament that is on their side when it comes to the use of their tax money. The Swedish people deserve a parliament that recognises that we in Sweden have been too naive in the view of profits in welfare. This naivety has had great and negative effects. It is time to put an end to naivety and make relevant political decisions.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-350	Madam President, I would like In the minister's world, it is the obbyists who are opposed to the Reepalu investigation and this proposal. When I read the referral, I see that almost no one is in favour of your proposal, not even the idea-driven activities. The Forum supports the idea, but it also states that the proposal makes it impossible to pursue private welfare, whether it be profit-sharing or non-profit-sharing, and that, in the short term, the idea-based organisations cannot assume responsibility for what is currently being done by private profit-sharing companies. If they say they won't do it, how will the public sector do it? The proposal is incomprehensible to all people who have chosen a care provider or a school on the basis of quality criteria, just like any entrepreneur who protects good welfare quality every day. What does the Minister say to all satisfied care recipients and school or ever? What do the minister and government say to all hardworking entrepreneurs and their employees? Will the government present the bill despite the harsh criticism, where the Law Council has sawed the proposal? It's rarely something you see that gets so completely sawed. The Swedish National Audit Office saws the Welfare Investigation. Who wants this more than the Left Party?
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this debate! It is a debate that clarifies the differences in Swedish politics. The Government has a balanced and balanced proposal that does not go as far as the rules supported by the Moderates' sister parties in the rest of the Nordic countries. Unlike the Conservatives in Norway, Denmark and Finland, we do not want to impose a profit ban. We are taking a pragmatic step in saying that we can have profits from private capital but that there must be some limits to how much of our tax money is leaving the business. In contrast to the liberal conservative parties in Europe, we can therefore think of profits from welfare, but we say that those profits must be limited. Madam President, I would like What we have now heard from Lotta Finstorp and what we are hearing from moderate representatives on this issue is a struggle to allow unlimited profits from welfare and school. It is a struggle to defend unlimited profits from welfare and school. There is nothing liberal-conservative about defending the waste of taxpayers' money. It's a betrayal of taxpayers. It is a betrayal of trust in our society. Should we be able to have joint and solidarity funding for elderly care, as the Swedish people want, we politicians have a duty to ensure that taxpayers' money does not leak from the business. We do not live up to that obligation. It is time to change the regulations, and the government will propose this to the Riksdag.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-358	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me whether I share the view that the new rules on labour law in procurement do not allow the requirement that the contracting provider be bound by collective agreements. He has also asked me what general measures I would take to clarify this to contracting authorities. The new rules in the procurement legislation mean that even a supplier who is not bound by a collective agreement can meet the requirements of the contract if it applies the same conditions as in an applicable collective agreement. The Government has stressed in the legislative case that the rules do not require suppliers to be bound by a collective agreement. The Government has given the Procurement Authority a clear mandate to work towards legally secure, efficient and socially sustainable procurement. For the purposes of applying the provisions on labour law conditions, the Procurement Authority supports contracting authorities and entities. The information on the Agency's website shows, among other things, that it is not permitted to state as a condition that a supplier must be bound by a collective agreement.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is so clear in his reply and that he shares the opinion of the Procurement Authority that it is simply not allowed to impose requirements for the use of a specific collective agreement in public procurement. The fact that requirements can be made in accordance with existing collective agreements is another matter. It only sets a level of labour law requirements. However, as the Minister says, a specific collective agreement must not be required. What concerns me, however, is that there does not seem to be agreement in the government on how to look at the new legislation. Our Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist recently appeared in the media, where he said that he himself, together with trade union representatives, has taken care that in the municipalities and county councils where the Social Democrats are involved, demands – specific requirements – should be made for collective agreements in public procurement. This is a requirement that is contrary to current legislation and which is also contrary to the image and interpretation of the law expressed by the Minister of Civil Affairs here today. I would therefore like to know what the Minister of Civil Affairs thinks that parts of the government in the media are expressing that there are to be illegal claims that are contrary to the bill that the government presented as late as May last year.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-365	Madam President, I would like Thank you to my colleague Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin for an important interpellation! I would like to reconnect with the previous interpellation debate, which is related to this. Words matter. It matters how leading Social Democrats express themselves, both locally and regionally as well as nationally. It matters when a minister goes out and says things. The consequences of that, Madam President, have been seen this week. We see that the start-up is diving in Sweden despite the boom. We see a sharp decline in the number of welfare companies in Sweden. It's very unfortunate. Earlier we had a rise, a very good rise, from 2006 onwards. Now it dives. I think the rhetoric used on collective agreements is worrying. That is why I signed up for this debate. I find it worrying that leading representatives of the Social Democrats, LO, Building and others express it as saying that companies without collective agreements would have worse employment conditions than companies with collective agreements. In fact, it may be directly wrong. I've had the privilege of working in a business organization for many years. In that role, I've asked companies to be members. In my hometown of Gävle there was a large company with many employees, and I thought it would be natural for the entrepreneur to be part of a business organisation. But it turned out that this was not possible because the occupational pension solution in the collective agreement was so much worse. The employees of that company voted whether they wanted collective agreements or not. I do not know whether it was 99% who voted against or whether it was 99, 9, but there were a lot of people there who simply said: No, we do not want the collective agreement's occupational pension solution, because it is so much worse. This is how it is, Madam President, often. Many companies that do not have collective agreements can have better employment conditions and better pay benefits than companies with collective agreements. I believe that the collective agreement discussion should be seen as a matter of power. I listened to LO's chairman in Ekot's Saturday interview. He made it clear that this is about power issues and not about employment relationships. He was asked by the Swedish Radio how he sees the number of members of LO and some other associations dropping so sharply. In some unions, the union does not even represent 25 per cent of employees in this area, such as a restaurant. Then he said something like this: It does not matter that we lose so many members, because thanks to the collective agreements we have the power as a trade union organisation. Then it is clear that it is not about the terms of employment but about the power relations. I have noted what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin highlighted here: Buildings in Dalarna and Gävleborg have, at least in Dalarna, managed to get through demanding collective agreements in procurement. I have also noticed that Peter Hultqvist and others have said that in S-controlled municipalities and county councils in Dalarna they will probably demand collective agreements. I am pleased that the Government is so clear that that requirement is not legal. It would be interesting to know what the government intends to do about municipalities that are demanding collective agreements that are clearly in breach of the law.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-375	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would just like to remind Members of Parliament that I am taking part in this debate as Minister of State and not as representative of either the Social Democrats, the Landsorganisation or the Building Workers' Association. I represent the government and the government's position on this issue. I look forward to other debates where we can discuss these issues more partisanly. The government's assessment has been that the legislation that we should have in Sweden in matters relating to social dimensions in public procurement should be based on a principle of equal treatment in accordance with EU law. This means that we make demands on conditions in accordance with collective agreements, not on adherence to collective agreements. It is based on the interpretation that we have made of the scope for EU law. It may be that there are municipalities and county councils that make a different interpretation of the scope for EU law. It is not uncommon for this type of litigation in procurement-related situations. I remember, among other things, that the municipality of Nacka was involved in developing a check system which was then challenged legally but then resulted in the law on freedom of choice. Sigtuna Municipality opposed current practices regarding animal welfare requirements and, in connection with the procurement of meat, demanded that the meat should have been produced in accordance with Swedish animal welfare standards. This was considered illegal. They ended up in court and, if I remember correctly, lost at first instance in the administrative court but won in the administrative court. It is therefore not at all unusual for contracting authorities to be involved in developing practices and enforcement. On these issues, EU law is not static. Views on EU law, not least the relationship between EU law, the law of action and labour law, are being developed thanks to the fact that contracting authorities have different questions examined, ultimately by the European Court of Justice. As a member of the government, I am unable to express my views on ongoing legal proceedings. I will honestly admit that I do not know if there is any such process going on. I cannot rule out the fact that there are legal proceedings going on in which these kinds of labour law issues are examined in connection with public procurement. However, the Government's interpretation of the legal situation is very clear from the proposal that was discussed by the Riksdag a short time ago. It shows that we have made the assessment that the legal scope we have allows us to make it mandatory to impose conditions in accordance with Swedish collective agreements. The obligation, following an agreement with the Christian Democrats, has been limited to pay and two other working conditions. It is possible for municipalities and county councils to make more stringent demands, but our assessment is that adherence to collective agreements is outside the legal scope of EU law.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs. Again – it is beneficial that the Minister for Civil Affairs is so clear about the legal situation and the meaning of the new legislation. It should be borne in mind, however, that the Social Democrats and the Government previously pursued a more offensive line and wanted to make it possible by law to impose specific requirements on collective agreements. However, there was no majority for this in this House, and then, as the Minister also mentions, a new proposal was drawn up under which it is not permitted to impose specific collective agreements. What becomes constitutionally tricky is when other government ministers travel around the country and urge municipal politicians to break the law and make demands for specific collective agreements in public procurement. According to the Government's Government instruction, a minister is always deemed to be on duty. Thus, the statements made by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist on this matter may be considered to be contained in the course of his duties. The question then arises: what does the Minister think about the government talking with such a split tongue on this issue? There is no doubt that the Minister for Civil Affairs today says that it is not possible to impose a specific collective agreement on public procurement. But what does the Minister think about others in the government going around and conducting some form of private campaign and urging municipalities and county councils to violate applicable legislation? It must of course be regarded as highly constitutionally doubtful. For the sake of clarity, it would be beneficial if the Minister of Civil Affairs for his colleagues in the Government, who have obviously not understood the scope of the legislation in force, were to make it clear once more that it is not permitted to impose specific collective agreements on public procurement. What the Minister of Defence has said in Dalarna, for example, gets rings on the water. I had a debate in Borlänge City Council with a chairman of a board there, who said that after Peter Hultqvist's statement we will now make demands on collective agreements. I informed the person that according to the Procurement Authority it is not allowed; it is contrary to the legislation in force. He replied in principle: "We don't care about that. So what the government's minister says in such contexts has signal value in the country. It is clearly inappropriate that individual ministers, contrary to the interpretation that both the Procurement Authority and the Minister for Civil Affairs themselves make of applicable legislation, go around and say that municipalities and county councils should break the law.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-389	Madam President, I would like I, too, look forward to the answer from Minister Shekarabi. Does he think it is appropriate for a member of the Swedish government to ask municipalities and county councils to break the law? That'll be interesting to hear. It would also be interesting to hear from the Government whether we can agree that there are very many companies today that have good employment conditions, regardless of whether they have collective agreements or not. Can we agree that companies generally protect their employees? There is no municipality and no county council that does not have a collective agreement, and we look at the effects we can see where the sick leave rates are highest. The rates of sick leave are significantly higher in municipalities and county councils than in small private companies. That is why this crusade against enterprise becomes so incomprehensible. It would be logical if the Government and the Government protected small businesses in Sweden and had a rhetoric that was to encourage people to start businesses and say positive things about small businesses in Sweden. Instead, it is just as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin describes. I myself have seen statements from both Bygg i Gävleborg and Minister of State in the Swedish Government, where you blame and speak ill of companies. I find this very unfortunate, because words matter. The effects of this behaviour have been seen: New business in Sweden is diving, as is entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. I and many others think that this is a major problem. We will have increased entrepreneurship in Sweden – we need that.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-393	Madam President, I would like There will be very clear discussions in this House today, which will clarify the differences that exist in Swedish politics for the forthcoming election movement. I note that Lars Beckman sees the demands for collective agreements as a "crusade" against entrepreneurship. It is quite far from the social and labour market model that we have in our country, which is based on the fact that collective agreements have a very important role in maintaining security, growth and the balance of power in Swedish working life. The collective agreements have also been very important because we have been able to have real wage increases in Sweden in recent decades, unlike other Western countries, where the working class has received lower wages. So it is clear that collective agreements as a phenomenon are worth defending. Our way of organizing our society and our way of life is worth defending. We now see that there is a threat because there seems to be a presumption that collective agreements involve a crusade against entrepreneurship. This is a foreign approach to Swedish conditions and the Swedish way of organising the labour market. This, with constitutional boundaries and possible questions about relations between freedom of communication and the obligations of the government in accordance with the form of government, is very far removed from my remit. I do not have detailed knowledge of these issues either, but that is definitely outside my remit. There is a special arrangement for dealing with such issues in this House. The government's starting points on these issues have been very clear. They are, as I said, reflected in the bill. There I also have to correct Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. The original proposal, which fell into this House, did not require the accession of collective agreements. The only difference with the legislative proposal that was passed was that the original proposal required occupational pensions and insurance to be compulsory. This fell away through the agreement with the Christian Democrats. Another difference was that the original proposal covered all procurements, while the proposal that went through and is now in force concerns procurement above the thresholds. Otherwise, these questions have been carefully investigated by the government's investigators in view of the fact that the government presented both proposals to the House.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-399	Madam President, I would like I now choose to quote the Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist :中 In order to achieve this, Bygg Gävledala and the Social Democrats in Dalarna agree on a common handshake that states the following; that collective agreements are required in public procurement. This is a line that social democraticly governed municipalities in Dalarna and Gävleborg will operate. I see Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi as being very clear in this debate in his statement that this is a requirement that is not compatible with Swedish law. It may be that the Minister for Civil Affairs is unable to comment on what other ministers have spoken about, even if they have done so in the course of their duties. Of course, I must respect that. However, if I understand correctly – he is welcome to confirm this – we can at least note that the line he has expressed in this House today, namely that it is not compatible with current Swedish law to require a specific collective agreement in public procurement, is also the government's line.
i-ec30513b5a2fee34-402	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Bohlin and Lars Beckman, for this debate! It has again given us the opportunity to clarify the differences in Swedish politics. I have explained the government's position on this issue. It is also reflected in the proposals submitted to the Swedish Parliament. I have also stressed that legal developments in this area are ongoing. It is municipalities, county councils and contracting authorities that make different types of requirements. Sometimes the requirements are the subject of a legal process. In the end, these issues could end up in the European Court of Justice. Through the issues raised in, for example, procurement situations, we are involved in developing EU law in this area. It is not possible to say exactly how applicable the law is. The government interprets proposals and decides on them. However, current EU law is constantly under development. It is the questions that arise, including when contracting authorities impose requirements, that drive development. It may also lead to the possibility of the European Court of Justice changing the room for manoeuvre. This has happened when it comes to requirements in, for example, the field of labour law, the social area and the area of environmental law. I am pleased that there were municipalities in our country, including in Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin County, which went against applicable law and wanted to demand that meat purchased by the municipality be produced in accordance with Swedish legislation. It was controversial and provoked a lot of reactions from lawyers, but thanks to hard work the legal situation changed through legal developments. We shall of course welcome this type of development. It remains to be seen where this debate goes.
