i-ad28066bb58a3106-6	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid has asked me whether I and the government will act on aid to the Palestinian Authority in the same way as the government acted on aid to the WATC and that other organisations in the Palestinian territories do not advocate terrorism and anti-Semitism. Over the past few months, the government has answered a large number of questions about Swedish aid to Palestine, including such related to terrorism, both in the form of parliamentary questions and in the parliamentary foreign policy debate on 14 February. I myself have answered no less than five written questions relating to aid in Palestine over the last three months. I would therefore like to reiterate, first of all, that no Swedish aid goes to the financing of terrorism. The organisation mentioned by Julia Kronlid, Women 中 s Affairs Technical Committee or WATC, received previous support through the so-called MR/IHL Secretariat, which is a donor collaboration where Sweden joined together with Switzerland, the Netherlands and Denmark. The WATC, in turn, supported a women's centre which was not itself funded by the secretariat. It was later discovered that after the completion of the project, the local village council chose to name the centre after a person who committed terrorist acts in 1978. When this became known, Sweden, together with the other donor countries in the MR/IHL Secretariat of the WATC, stated that the naming was contrary to the Secretariat's basic principles that all partner organisations must clearly distance themselves from hate speech and sedition. When the WATC did not distance itself from the women's centre's naming, Sweden and the other donors within the secretariat decided not to extend the support to WATC. In accordance with the decision-making process within the project, the decision was taken jointly by all donors. See answers to parliamentary question 2017/ 18:814 on the same issue. Sweden's aid to Palestine has a overriding purpose: to contribute to a democratic, independent, coherent and viable Palestine that will exist side by side with Israel in peace and security. Sweden calls for good control and respect for human rights, anti-corruption measures, gender equality work and continued reform efforts in the implementation of the aid. The Government's ambition is that Sweden's assistance, in addition to its stated goals, should contribute to counteracting hate speech and sedition. If irregularities in aid are detected, Sweden reacts and takes the necessary measures. Following a recent mid-term review of aid to Palestine, Sida has noted that the strategy for Sweden's international development cooperation with Palestine in 2015 – 2019 remains relevant and that the combined support for Palestinian state-building is an effective approach to strengthening the possibilities for the implementation of the two-state solution. No Swedish aid goes directly to the Palestinian Authority's budget, but it is channelled through international organisations such as the World Bank and the UN and then in accordance with the regulations of these organisations. Sweden's development cooperation with Palestine has been going on for a long time and has, over the last few decades, been aimed at assisting the Palestinian people in sustainable democratic state-building with the aim of bringing about a two-state solution. A well-functioning Palestinian authority is a prerequisite for this, including democratic progress, anti-corruption, non-violence, respect for human rights and increased influence on women and scope for civil society.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Development for the initial answers to my questions. As the Minister for Development, a decision was taken not to extend aid to WATC after it became known that Sweden indirectly supported a women's centre in the West Bank named after Dalal Mughrabi, who participated in an act of terror in Israel in 1978. Following this event, both Denmark and Norway and some other countries have set their feet and tightened the conditions for aid to Palestine. Denmark, for example, will reduce the number of host organisations. However, we have not yet seen that the Swedish Government has allowed the incident to have any further consequences despite information on irregularities in other organisations and within the Palestinian Authority. Minister for Development Isabella Lövin believes that money does not go directly to the Palestinian Authority's budget. No, we are aware of that too. However, with regard to the women's centre in the West Bank, indirect support was sufficient to avoid continuing aid. It should then be sufficient for Sweden to indirectly provide assistance for activities within the Palestinian Authority to take action. The Minister for Development's reply makes it abundantly clear that in all cases part of the aid to Palestine is aimed at Palestinian state-building and not purely humanitarian aid. At the same time, it has been known for a long time that the Palestinian Authority is paying large sums of money to people in prison for committing acts of terrorism in Israel and killing innocent people, including Jews. In addition, there is pure anti - Semitic propaganda, and under the authority schools cultivate hatred of Jews all the way from childhood. The Minister for Development lists a number of requirements for human rights, corruption, gender equality and so on, which is a good thing. The Minister for Development further expresses that the Government's ambition" is to contribute, among other things, to counter hate speech and sedition. I take this as meaning that today there is no objective in the government's strategy of putting an end to hate speech and sedition. No, it's just a parenthesis. This is very remarkable and may explain the fact that aid continues this year after year despite the fact that so many abuses have been highlighted. What is at issue here is sticking to principles and being clear, and here the government is not consistent. I am fully aware that money does not go directly to pay out to terrorists. The problem is that Sweden supports, if it is indirect, an authority that rewards terrorism and has values contrary to all human rights stand for. Therefore, it will be nothing more than double standards and hypocrisy when the Swedish government says it wants to combat terrorism and anti-Semitism. The Minister for Development also expresses the view that if irregularities in aid are detected, Sweden will react and take the necessary measures. My first question is whether the Minister for Development can acknowledge that the government is fully aware that these large pay-out payments to convicted terrorists are ongoing within the Palestinian Authority and that anti-Semitic propaganda is present in its activities.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-20	Mr President, I would like to Abraham is buried in Hebron. The most sacred is divided between Muslims and Jews. The synagogue and the mosque are separated by a wall; it is the same building. Half his coffin is in the mosque and the other half in the synagogue. This is a sacred place for at least three religions. At feasts, the wall can be removed, and then you borrow from one side to the other and vice versa — side by side. On both sides there is an enormous fatigue in this conflict. You can walk around town, in any city you want in Israel or Palestine, and ask anyone. Everyone says they want an end to it. If you want to do this more systematically, you can ask the Palestinian Centre for Social Studies, which recently conducted a study showing that people on both sides want peace and live with each other. Extremists on both sides are given far too much space in the debate. It is therefore important that Sweden, which is one of many donors in Palestine, is also there to provide aid. Sweden provides aid not because the area is perfect, but because it is needed. In the event of anti-Semitism or violence propaganda, assistance shall be terminated. And if anyone knows that such things occur, it should be reported to Sida. It is an obligation you should have, especially if you are a elected member. Report the projects, and Sida will take care of the matter and act. Swedish aid goes to children's schooling and to ensure that there is workable electricity and clean water. In addition, I know how important it is to have many small projects going on in the area. For example, a doctor Moussa has a psychological clinic where you have conversations with families where family members have either been killed or imprisoned. Calls instead of stones are a method that I believe in. I've read Julia Kronlid's interpellation very carefully. She does not mention in one word that Palestine is occupied or what occupation means for a population. I recently met a family in Betlehem. It was after a service in their church. They told me that earlier it took their daughter 20 minutes to go to school. Then a roadblock and a fence were set up. Now it takes over two hours for her to get to and from school every day. This is just one example. There are thousands more examples of what occupation means, but Swedish democrat Julia Kronlid does not mention this in a single word. The interpellation that the Swedish Democrats have asked raises some questions that I would like to ask:
i-ad28066bb58a3106-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid. Let me start by clarifying a few things. There is much to be critical of how the Palestinian Authority acts. Sweden has a very direct and clear dialogue with Palestine, as with other partner countries where we are major donors. We are also very critical of much of what is happening in South Sudan, Cambodia, Myanmar and a wide range of other countries where the assistance of Sweden and the international community is needed to support people in urgent need of help. There we need to support both state-building and democratic institutions that can actually take development forward, but also women's opportunities and democratic movements that make it a more sustainable future. That is exactly what we are doing in Palestine. Sweden currently provides around 6% of the total support from the international community to Palestine. As we heard earlier, this is the result of Palestine being under occupation and having great difficulty in having a good development under the extreme conditions that prevail. Today, 2.5 million people in Palestine need humanitarian aid. Aid in Palestine aims to become a stable democratic state with freedom of religion and respect for human rights. It has been the guiding principle of Swedish Palestinian aid for decades. There is no difference here from the Palestinian aid of previous governments. Let me give you some examples of what we are doing. We support water management in Gaza, which is now under blockade. We just opened a sewage treatment plant in Gaza. Our support has gone to four water reservoirs and 36 kilometres of water pipeline networks that have been renovated. We have overcome water leakage and rehabilitated wells and water networks even in the West Bank. The problems are due to the fact that groundwater, which is Gaza's only water resource, is in principle no longer usable as drinking water due to pollution and increased salinity. Therefore, many families buy drinking water at a high cost, often from private operators. This is intolerable for a population that is already under very heavy pressure. If we do not help with such a basic thing as water supply, we are pushing people to resist the occupation in desperation. This also drives the spiral of violence in a direction that I assume Julia Kronlid does not think is good either. We support Palestine's counterpart to the Human Rights Ombudsman, who examines, among other things, new legislation and the human rights situation in Palestine. We support access to mental health for people living with trauma because of violent events related to the occupation. We support small businesses, with a focus on female entrepreneurs, to give hope for the future to the people living during the occupation. We see that over 80 000 children have suffered from psychosocial trauma requiring psychological support. Of course, as mentioned earlier, it is better for all parties if children are allowed to go to school and do not end up on the street. If we strangle the aid, as Julia Kronlid apparently wants, what does Julia Kronlid mean is the result?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-37	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to respond briefly to Anders Österberg's questions. I have also met people when I visited Israel, both Palestinians and Jews, who are tired of the conflict and want peace. There are good examples of organisations working for this. But what I am critical of is organisations and a Palestinian authority that is working for the very opposite: sedition, hate propaganda and anti-Semitic propaganda that cultivates hatred instead of peace. We are against this. Are kids going to school? Yes, very much, but they will learn the equal value of all people and not, as there have been examples, that Jews are pigs and are to be killed. It does not contribute to peace. Freedom or occupation? I do not think the question is so one-sided and simple. I want to see a sustainable solution for both sides, where Israelis also live in peace and security. To Minister for Development Isabella Lövin, I would like to say that the only answer I received regarding whether you can admit that these salary payments are ongoing was that there is a lot to be critical of. Yes, there is much to be critical of in many countries, but I still have no recognition of the full awareness of wage payments. As I also said earlier to Anders Österberg, there are absolutely good examples of activities and purely humanitarian aid in Palestine. This is not, above all, what we are criticising. I was also on a visit to Israel where I met an organisation working in cooperation on water, where both Jews and Palestinians were allowed to sit down at the same table. There are good examples. However, precisely in the case of aid channelled through organisations to institutions within the Palestinian Authority, the government must put its foot down. According to the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, which has translated the Palestinian Authority's own budget, the compensation for a terrorist sentenced to 30 years can amount to $3 000 a month. Of the Palestinian Authority's total budget, these salary payments represent around 7%, which, by comparison, represents about 30% of the aid received by the Agency. In addition, these people are further rewarded when they come out of prison and perhaps even receive services within the Palestinian Authority. The Times of Israel reports that the Foreign Minister asks whether families should starve if they do not receive this contribution. But it is not a social benefit for survival but a clear signal that terror and the murder of Jews are something that pays off. There the government must put its foot down and say that it is unacceptable. Abbas himself has in a clip that is to be seen on Youtube expressed: We welcome every drop of blood spilled on Jerusalem. One of the terrorists entitled to pay under the rules of the Palestinian Authority was sentenced in 2004 to 67 life sentences. He was convicted of being the brains behind a series of suicide attacks with a total of 66 dead. There are many such examples. In addition to acting against irregularities in the Palestinian Authority, we believe that the government should review aid to other organisations in the Palestinian territories. For example, aid from Sweden has sponsored the Freedom Theatre in Jenin and a play called Belägringen, where, among other things, terrorists put bombs around a Christian church and celebrate that they killed Israelis. Then it is not humanitarian aid for survival; then it is political propaganda, hate propaganda. If the government really wants to contribute to peace, I think it does not have the right strategy. You contribute to the wrong things. My next question is whether the government finds it acceptable that terrorism is rewarded and hailed and that purely anti-Semitic messages are spread from organisations and institutions that the government directly or indirectly supports with Swedish aid and Swedish tax funds.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-49	Mr President, I would like to Today, over 400 children are in Israeli prison. Two thirds of them say that they have been subjected to some form of physical abuse. How does Julia Kronlid feel about that? The former Foreign Minister of Israel, Avigdor Lieberman, himself lived in occupied territory of the West Bank. Among other things, he has said that Israel should fight Hamas in the same way that the United States fought Japan during World War II, that is, with atomic weapons. Naftali Bennett, who is former Minister for Economic Affairs and has a new ministry in the government, has said that he will do everything in his power to ensure that the Palestinians never have their own state. He has also said that he would refuse to carry out an order to evict Israeli settlers from Palestinian land. For this he got so severe criticism that he backed off. Julia Kronlid says that the issue is not so simple that it is just about whether it is an occupation or not and that she wants to see a long-term, sustainable solution. Then my question to her is: what is the solution of the Swedish democrats? For us, it is simple: Palestine has been occupied for 50 years. The right of all peoples to freedom — the peace of the whole world.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-53	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Julia Kronlid, it is unacceptable to spread hate speech. Here we are absolutely clear. As I explained in my first reply, we interrupt cooperation or support where such things are revealed. Julia Kronlid did not answer my question: What is the strategy of Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats? Instead, she asks if we have a strategy. The answer is yes. Since the start of the Oslo process in the 1990s, the international community has coordinated its support to Palestine in order to facilitate a democratic state building and a two-state solution. This is the strategy that Sweden continues to pursue. We have done so ever since under various governments. We are cooperating with the rest of the international community. Only in recent days has Sweden participated in three donor coordination meetings. On 13 March in Washington DC, Sweden participated at the invitation of President Trum ps advisor Jared Kushner and M ellanösterbekbud Greenblatt in a meeting on concrete measures for economic and humanitarian action in Gaza. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, together with her colleagues from Jordan and Egypt, hosted a ministerial meeting in Rome on UNRWA's funding on 15 March. Some seventy countries were involved, as were UN Secretary-General Guterres and EU High Representative Mogherini. On 20 March, Sweden took part in the AHLC meeting in Brussels, where the US and other donor countries, together with the UN, the EU, the World Bank, the IMF and both Israel and Palestine, coordinated efforts to strengthen institutions, infrastructure and other social development in Palestine. I would like to emphasise that Israel – the Palestine conflict is a very difficult context and also very politicised. I guess that's not news to anyone, nor to Julia Kronlid. In several countries, there are reasons for domestic politics to assert this, rather than the other. There's a lot of disinformation. This means that we must all be very critical of sources when we take part in the debate. The government takes all the information we get seriously. If we find irregularities, we act. I noticed that Julia Kronlid was referring to hate speech in schools. In this context, the Palestinian Authority's curriculum is also used in Israeli-administered schools in East Jerusalem, which are under Israeli occupation. This is a fairly clear sign that what we support is not met with objections from Israel. The irregularities detected are to be dealt with, but the support we give is that children should be in school and not on the streets. Children should feel that they have a future and that there is a movement towards independence side by side with Israel. Unfortunately, the developments we are seeing today are going the other way. I would also like to mention here, unfortunately, the demolition of humanitarian structures by Israel. This also applies to things that are funded by Sweden, the EU and other donors, and also to schools. This year two classrooms have recently been destroyed, which means that many children cannot continue to attend school. Julia Kronlid, what's your strategy? What do you think we should do to get a peaceful two-state solution?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-63	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answers, Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin, although I am not satisfied with everyone. It was clear from the Minister for Development, which I appreciate, that incitement to violence, the spread of anti-Semitism and the reward of terrorism is unacceptable. Good, then we have a deal. Then I expect that the government will continue to act when such things are revealed in organisations to which we provide assistance and that the Swedish Government will say that the payment of rewards to terrorists must stop, otherwise the aid will be cancelled. I expect that. What, then, is our strategy? Our strategy, of course, is precisely to impose clear conditions and requirements on aid. Our strategy can also be to support organisations that promote peace and good relations between Palestinians and Jews, where both sides pursue the same goal – not to support a theatre that celebrates terrorists who put bombs around a Christian church. We should not support such things. This is not part of the Swedish Democrats' strategy. The conflict itself is not the subject of the main debate today. However, I think that both parties must be given a chance to agree on a long-term solution without us, who are not parties to the conflict, pre-determining the limits to apply and so on. In any case, all of this makes it clear that it is time for the government to put its foot down and for the government to make a clear condition of aid. Fundamental democratic principles and human rights within the Palestinian Authority should also be respected. It's also a very big risk.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-68	Mr President, I would like to Then I got a clear answer from Julia Kronlid. Julia Kronlid says: When Sweden operates in difficult environments and human rights violations are committed, we should withdraw the aid to those people who are victims of abuse and who are unable to take advantage of their human rights and the opportunity to develop and emerge from poverty. It is in that way that we operate in very difficult political contexts. But Julia Kronlid says: If there is a mistake or a mistake on the part of the Palestinian Authority, the aid should be strangled. However, I wonder what Julia Kronlid really thinks about the Israeli Authority having demolished two classrooms in a Palestinian school in the Bedouin community Abu Nuwar, east of Jerusalem, in the occupied West Bank on 4 February this year, affecting 26 children in grades 3 to 4, and that this structure has been constructed using humanitarian funds from the West Bank Protection Consortium, which is co-financed by eight EU Member States. Of course, in this conflict there are errors and abuse on both sides, but Julia Kronlid describes the matter with one-sidedness. It will be innocent children and citizens who suffer if we are to act in the way that Julia Kronlid advocates. It's not responsible. In this way, unfortunately, we will have to cancel the whole of Swedish aid. Maybe that's what Julia Kronlid thinks.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-71	Mr President, I would like to Christina Höj Larsen has asked the Minister for Migration and the Deputy Minister for Justice whether the Government considers it acceptable that asylum seekers' children are not treated in the same way as children with a residence permit when it comes to the right to support, care and treatment and what measures the Government intends to take to reduce the number of suicides among children and young people in the asylum process. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Mental illness in children and young people has increased over time, which is a major social problem. In the case of children and young adults, we need to strengthen the early efforts to avoid them getting into a long-term problem. We know that there are notable differences in mental illness between different groups. One of the vulnerable groups is unaccompanied minors and young people. I understand very well that many asylum seekers, not least unaccompanied minors and young people, find themselves in a difficult situation. It is important that all children and young people who feel ill, whether physically or mentally, have access to the care to which they are entitled. Asylum-seeking children are entitled to the same free healthcare as other children in Sweden. Many of the children and young people who have made their way to Sweden carry traumas, which can, among other things, express themselves in self-harm behaviour. There is a great need for community intervention. The preconditions for health care to meet this need need need to continue to be strengthened. As the group of unaccompanied minors and young people is particularly vulnerable to mental illness, the Government allocates SEK 50 million annually to improve access to healthcare to combat mental illness in asylum seekers and newly arrived children and young people. The Government has also allocated funds during 2017 – 2020 to increase access to care and treatment for traumatized children and adults who are asylum seekers and new arrivals. The Government allocated more than SEK 1 billion in 2017 for interventions in the area of mental health. The Government assessed that the mental health initiative needs to be further strengthened and therefore adds SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work with SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. The initiative is aimed at strengthening first-line care and specialised psychiatry for children and adults. In the 2017 spring change budget (prop. 2016/ 17:99) was added SEK 100 million for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people in primary care in county councils and regions. This effort will continue in 2018 – 2020. In this year's agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the government has chosen to have a special focus on increasing accessibility. The target for accessibility remains 30 days to the first visit and 30 days to the in-depth investigation. The National Board of Health and Welfare has established a national knowledge centre for unaccompanied children and young people. Through knowledge development and knowledge transfer, the work with unaccompanied children and young people in social services and health care is strengthened. Efforts for a developed collaboration between municipalities and county councils to highlight professionals in schools, including student health, health care and social services, to ensure children's and young people's schooling. A risk factor for mental illness, which has been identified by the National Knowledge Centre, among other things, is that in many cases young asylum seekers need to move from the municipality where they live and go to school when they turn 18 or are registered in their age. The Government has allocated SEK 390 million in 2017 and SEK 195 million in 2018 in municipal grants to enable municipalities to allow unaccompanied young people to remain in the municipality during the asylum process. Overall, I believe that the measures taken by the government in this area will contribute to better access to care for unaccompanied minors and young people. The signals that unaccompanied minors and young people are deteriorating are, of course, worrying signals, and the government's actions should address this.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. We are standing here today because the situation is urgent. We have received reports from the network # we do not stand out, from CIs, from Bris and from BO that show not only that the mental ill health among unaccompanied minors is great but that young people take their own lives. In KI's report, we see that at least twelve young people killed themselves in 2017. In 2015 no one did. It is a terrible development, and this means that it is at least nine times as common to end your life in that group as in the corresponding group of young people who were born here in Sweden. Up in the gallery are some of those who have long paid attention to the emergency. There are friends, family homes and support staff around the young. They're the ones who comfort and hold hands. They are the ones who try to get young people to cope with school and to cope with life one more day. They are the ones who are fighting at the side of their comrades. They're teachers, good men, classmates, friends... those who are now family here. We should be very grateful that they exist, because without them many more young people would have let go. Of course, every suicide is a tragedy. That is why we have a zero vision of suicide in Sweden for a long time, and we know a lot about how to prevent suicide in Sweden. It is about security and predictability in general. The KI report highlights some of the crucial safety factors. It is about safe and stable housing, about schooling with activities and stability and about a social safety net, what you now call your new family. It is directly protective for people with depression: a safe environment without violent elements, that people close to the youth are trained to discover these things, to restrict access to alcohol and drugs, to provide treatment and therapy with a formulated long-term security plan. The gap between these descriptions of prevention and the reality of young people is great. The reality in which young people live is not safe, is not predictable. The KI report concludes with the need to put in place all-emergency preventive measures to stop this epidemic in the group. In his reply, the Minister highlights important initiatives in psychiatry regarding children's and young people's mental health. It is investments that I know well, because the Left Party has pushed through at least one of those dealing with mental illness among young people. That's great bets! However, this is not just a question of psychiatry, and that is why I put the question to the Minister for Migration. It is about the conditions and conditions for young people in the asylum process and in the legislation. Psychiatry is important, but unfortunately it is not enough to prevent what we are seeing right now.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-87	Mr President, I would like to We can see that I share the view that this is an extremely serious situation. We have taken note of Karolinska report, and we are following it closely. At the same time, I would like to be very clear with the honourable Member: there is no doubt that both the Government and the Minister for Migration are happy to debate the issue of asylum law and migration. However, the question of asylum and migration must then be raised. In this interpellation it is very clear about suicide, mental illness and health care. That is why it will be my responsibility to answer the question. Nevertheless, I believe that during this interpellation debate we can hopefully have a dialogue in which I can tell you a little more clearly about the various efforts that are being made. It should also be said very clearly that I, too, am incredibly aware of the amazing efforts that a lot of people are making on a voluntary basis today, or on the basis of their commitment, to contribute to a safer situation for a group that is very vulnerable in Sweden. Thank you for that. I told you in my answer about the SEK 50 million we provide each year to improve access to health care. The Government also has since 2017 an effort to increase access to care and treatment for traumatized children and adults who are asylum seekers and newly arrived. This initiative runs between 2017 and 2020 and amounts to SEK 40 million per year. Among other things, we support the Red Cross in a project aimed at psychotherapeutic, physiotherapeutic and psychosocial treatment of adult refugees and migrants. There is also some support for children and young people. Vårsta diakoni is another player who has benefited from these funds to develop a trauma centre for asylum seekers and new arrivals in Härnösand. We have also made a commitment to the Red Cross of 1.9 million in 2017 for the development and strengthening of health promotion activities for new arrivals and asylum seekers. In the interpellation to me, reference is also made to student health. It is an incredibly important area to continue to strengthen. There we have made several efforts during this term of office, and we can see that today, compared to when the government took office, we have about 700 more staff in student health. More needs to be done, however. It is about continuing to take steps in the right direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to raise the extremely serious issue of suicide, which we see so clearly increasing in this particular group. Since 2015, the Swedish Public Health Agency has a special mission from the Government to coordinate suicide prevention work at the national level. I'd like to describe it a little more later. An important part is that there are now two national collaboration groups, one of which consists, for example, of non-profit actors. We can see that there has been a huge increase in commitment. In 2017, the national coordination and the number of actors in the group increased to more than 30, of which approximately 10 were non-profit organisations. I am happy to tell you more about the work that is going on there in my next post.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-97	Mr President, I would like to Partially, the interpellation is about the right to care and support. I will come back to the question of aid, because it has not been answered. It is mainly about the psychiatry of the Minister's response. The second thing is what to do to reduce the number of suicides. There, as I mentioned before, in the preventive work, it is much more and more than psychiatry that is crucial in an acute situation of suicide risk. When you look at the reality of the group when it comes to security and predictability, as I was talking about, it's a huge gap! What's it look like for them? We have the temporary legislation which has removed important grounds for protection and which means that one cannot be reunited with one's family. We have legal uncertainty about age assessments that, frankly, have been hair travelers, where young people have been written up here and there. As by magic, they have lost their right to housing and placed with adults. We have long, long waiting times, something that CIs point out as one of the particularly dangerous risk factors. The Finnish Immigration Service is moving people around in the middle of their schooling. Bris and BO point to major differences and shortcomings in the right to care and support. And then there's the magical 18th anniversary, either that you turn 18 or that you're written up when you're old. There it is very different from the other young people in community care. One loses one's good man, who is at least partly part of that important, crucial social network that is needed and necessary in such a situation. You're being moved to the adult shelter. The social services end the special support and placement you have had, and then it is up to the municipality to assess whether you need it. All the factors I've talked about – legislation and practice itself – are a retraumatising of young people. The right to daily allowance and accommodation may be lost once the deadline for voluntary return has expired. What we are talking about then is homelessness; one is uprooted with the root. It's about environments where there's a lot of drugs. All these things we know increase the risk of suicide, and that is why the situation looks as it does today. So we are in a situation where both legislation and the asylum process and all other realities go directly against what we know about suicide prevention. What does the government want to do about it? It can't be solved just with psychiatry. It must also be resolved by looking at the legislation that affects the young person. We need to do something about age assessments. We must do something about the long waiting periods. It's an overall picture. What does the government want to do?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-106	Mr President, I would like to As I said initially in my previous speech, I know that the Member of Parliament is well aware that when it comes to those parts that are not my responsibility, we have a Minister of Migration who very often stands in this House debating precisely these issues. With regard to the legislation relating to the area of the Minister for Migration, as well as the age assessments and other elements, these questions must therefore be addressed to the Minister responsible for those questions. On the basis of my part in the responsibility for the situation of unaccompanied minors and adults, I will answer the questions put by the honourable Member. The questions put by the honourable Member are very much about suicide, suicide prevention and what the government is doing to strengthen the situation of unaccompanied minors and young people who feel bad. The questions in the interpellation are asked from a strict health care perspective, and I am happy to answer them. The honourable Member also knows very well that the government has made great efforts in the field of psychiatry during its term of office. Compared to when we took office in 2014, we today devote twice as much resources to strengthen psychiatry in Sweden. It is because we see that it is needed in today's situation. We have also made a number of efforts during our term of office, especially in the case of unaccompanied minors and adults, because we see the situation described by the honourable Member here. In my previous reply, I tried to tell you, on the one hand, what the government is doing within the framework of the funds currently allocated, and, on the other hand, about the specific work on suicide that is going on and has been started during the parliamentary term. It is about taking a national hold through the mission to the Swedish Public Health Agency. It is a question of increasing the resources of organisations active in suicide prevention. A positive part of this is that they are actively involved in the work that is being done at the Public Health Agency, and they are able to benefit from the increased resources. In the context of these descriptions, which I am sure Christina Höj Larsen will hear, and which I also hear from time to time, one feels powerless as politicians. At the same time, we know that we are the ones who are sitting on so many of the keys. We must continue to monitor the situation and make efforts to increase access to preventive measures for unaccompanied children and adults. They must be caught early so that they can quickly access the specialised child and youth psychology. We know that, in many places today, waiting times are far too long. This is also why an important part of the efforts made by the government in the group, which still amounts to nearly SEK 100 million per year, has been about improving access to healthcare and increasing access to healthcare and treatment across the country, through our traditional channels and through the initiatives that take place, for example, via the Red Cross and the Vårsta Diakoni.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-112	Mr President, I would like to I'm worried if the government feels powerless. It is you who have the power, and it is you who have the responsibility. We are in a situation where the government has changed the law and made a temporary law. The government has tightened up so that it loses the right to housing and compensation in the event of rejection. We are in a situation where the government has changed the regulation on what will apply when you turn 18 if you have been in society's care as an asylum seeker. This is the government's responsibility. Feeling powerlessness does not belong here, but it is the government's ability and power to change that situation. I appreciate the things that are done in psychiatry. They're important. But if reality is such that the conditions are impossible, what do we do? I meet a lot of people from child and youth psychiatry who say they can't help these young people. There is no medicine in the world or anywhere they can put these young people that makes their problems go away. What young people need is security, a residence permit – an opportunity to continue their lives. For the Left Party, the answer is clear. An amnesty is needed for these young people. This cannot continue. An epidemic where young people no longer choose to live is not worthy of a country like Sweden. We need to do something. We have the power. Take it!
i-ad28066bb58a3106-117	Mr President, I would like to I hope the honourable Member understands that when I use the concept of powerlessness, it is a question of powerlessness and frustration over every single child who, in this case, loses his life. The efforts that have actually been made since 2015 may not be enough, but we must do even more. This powerlessness can also be felt and allowed to speak of by a politician. The government is doing some things in this area, and we will follow this issue closely. The government has commissioned the report that has been produced, which points to the situation regarding suicide among unaccompanied minors. This is done, of course, because the government wants to know what it looks like. We want a basis so that we can invest the resources and take the necessary measures to improve and strengthen the situation of unaccompanied minors and young people. I will, of course, respond on the basis of what is my responsibility in the government. Another thing that the government has done during its term of office is that we have clearly said that all county councils should offer health examinations to asylum seekers, unless it is quite clear that for one reason or another it is unnecessary. The state replaces the county councils for this. It is then possible to quickly catch up with children and young people who need support. Every child or young person who takes his life in frustration, and where we have somehow broken along the way, is a child too much. So does the government. We are also prepared to take steps to improve the situation and support the group.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-122	Mr President, I would like to Margareta Larsson has asked me how the Swedish Medical Products Agency can be strengthened in its role for increased knowledge and security and also reduce corruption in the pharmaceutical industry. In the review report Safe and efficient medicines – how does the state deal with the influence of the pharmaceutical industry? ( RiR 2016:9), published on 9 June 2016, the Swedish National Audit Office reviews how the state handles the pharmaceutical industry's influence over state drug control and knowledge management. The reason for the review was that the Government and the authorities, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, have a difficult task to promote several different good values that sometimes conflict with each other. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that rapid access to new effective medicines and reliable knowledge of drug effects are values that sometimes resist each other. The promotion of public health and the promotion of business can sometimes also be difficult objectives. In the review report, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that it is mainly pharmaceutical companies that fund and design large clinical trials. The pharmaceutical companies thus have a great influence on how the tests are carried out and what results are to be passed on to the outside world through research articles and marketing. This gives the pharmaceutical industry an information advantage vis-à-vis other actors in the pharmaceutical sector. In the review report, the Swedish National Audit Office makes three recommendations to the Government: The Government should not involve the MPA in its innovation policy. The Government should give the MPA clearer incentives not to prioritise down the purely safety-oriented tasks. The government should commission the authorities to work together for a more producer-independent governance with knowledge. By the Government's letter The Swedish National Audit Office's report on safe and effective medicinal products (p. 2016/ 17:39) shows that the Government does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments regarding the recommendations to give the Swedish Medical Products Agency clearer incentives not to prioritise the purely safety-oriented tasks and to give the authorities the task of collaborating for a more producer-independent governance with knowledge. The background to this is set out in the letter. With regard to the recommendation not to involve the MPA in its innovation policy, the Government makes a different assessment, which is also stated in the Government's letter. The development of pharmaceuticals, medical technology and information technology is important for modern and efficient healthcare. Collaboration in the life science sector between industry, researchers and health care is of great importance for the development of healthcare. The government believes that through new drugs, treatment methods and medical technology, an ageing population, new threats in the form of spread of infection and pandemics and antibiotic resistance can be met. This does not mean that LV's innovation promotion work is of greater importance than some other parts of the business. As the Swedish National Audit Office writes, the Swedish Medical Products Agency is mainly a control and supervisory authority, and the Government wrote in its letter that the Swedish National Audit Office raises important issues. Therefore, the Government commissioned the Swedish Medical Products Agency and other relevant authorities – the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Government's preparation for medical and social evaluation, the Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency and the Swedish Public Health Agency – to take stock of current procedures and working methods and, if necessary, revise them to ensure a control system that manages the risk of undue influence. The reporting by the authorities on the tasks mentioned above shows, among other things, that there is a joint group of authorities that includes all five authorities. The Group agrees on the design of conflict declarations, and the National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for revising the form in accordance with agreed proposals. The group has also produced a number of other government-wide documents with a view to providing guidance to the individual expert. The group is also an advisory body for the authority seeking advice on a matter. As far as the MPA is concerned, the Agency's report shows that the inventory has shown that the existing control systems work well and are appropriate. However, some improvements have been made, or are planned to be made, in connection with the government mission. When it comes to threats and harassment, for example, the authority has decided to provide employees with clearer information on how incidents involving threats, violence and harassment should be handled. With regard to corruption, the MPA has made it clear in its internal guidelines that zero tolerance applies to all forms of bribery. The MPA also reported that they intended to introduce regular internal sample checks to ensure compliance with the work's procedures for handling employees' claims. Furthermore, the practical handling of judicial declarations on the Agency has been done in a uniform and centralised manner. The Government has confidence that the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Authority's management will take the necessary measures if necessary in this area as well as in others. The Government does not consider that it needs to take any specific measures but follows the Swedish Medical Products Agency's work on this and other issues through ongoing dialogue.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-139	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its clear answer. My question in this debate is: how can we strengthen the MPA in its role in reducing corruption in the pharmaceutical industry? The Government responds: No need. I think that's a strange answer. Generally speaking, it is interesting that the pharmaceutical industry as a whole seems to be completely free in this House from condemnation or proposals for action. The MPA's main task is to be a regulatory authority vis-à-vis the pharmaceutical companies. However, it will be difficult to pursue an innovation policy at the same time. It is also difficult to be objective when almost entirely financed by the pharmaceutical companies. There is zero transparency in how the tests are carried out, and the pharmaceutical companies are training doctors themselves and paying well for their promotional campaigns for preparations, called lectures. Furthermore, employees walk back and forth in employment between the Medical Products Agency and the pharmaceutical companies. We can ask anyone on the street if they believe that this system is patient-proof. I can put a month's salary on that almost everyone would say no, unlike the government. It would actually be interesting to do such a market survey to find out what people really think about this model. Mr President, I would like to I do not want to believe that it is the Council's own views that are put forward in the answer, and I understand that it must be tough to stand here and defend this. The red-green government is generally opposed to profits in welfare, but the pharmaceutical industry seems to be completely free. Why not take on board the Swedish National Audit Office's report, which presents concrete facts? They have seen in their review how the Swedish Medical Products Agency has recently abandoned its actual mission of being a supervisory authority. Mr President, I would like to Initially, pharmaceutical works were started worldwide to protect the public from harmful medicines after the Neurosedyn scandal. Had the U.S. Agency functioned as it would not have killed hundreds of thousands of people in the opioid crisis. France has more civil courage. There their drug works were recently reorganized after thousands of deaths due to a harmful diabetes medicine. A large number of officials were prosecuted. In addition, the Swedish Medicines Agency is not financed to the same extent as in Sweden by the pharmaceutical companies. However, the Government does not want the MPA to prioritise the safety-oriented tasks. Why? The government does not want the public to have access to producer-independent information but is fully satisfied with the pharmaceutical companies' own manipulated data. Consultants paid by these companies have a decisive influence on the treatment recommendations made by the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. How can this be considered reasonable?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-147	Mr President, I would like to In a letter to the Riksdag and also in my interpellation response, the Government has clearly explained in quite a detail why we have made the assessments we have made in different parts. The development of pharmaceuticals, medical technology and information technology is important for modern and efficient healthcare. Collaboration in the life science sector between industry, researchers and health care is of great importance for the development of healthcare. The Government believes that Sweden has a high level of knowledge and expertise in development and production. We also have a high-quality healthcare system that covers everyone. We also have a tradition of collaboration, a collaboration that needs to increase to meet the societal challenges that exist around health today. The government believes that through new drugs, treatment methods and medical technology, an ageing population, new threats in the form of spread of infection and pandemics and antibiotic resistance can be met. Our overall assessment is that the objectives of health policy, public health policy and innovation policy need not be contradictory. On the contrary, we believe that the interaction between these different policies is of great importance in meeting the societal challenges that I have just spoken about. Of course, the Medical Products Agency has an important role to play in this work. This does not mean that LV's innovation promotion work is of greater importance than other parts of the business. Just as Margareta Larsson says, the MPA is mainly a supervisory authority. Its objective is to provide the individual patient and healthcare provider with access to safe and effective, high-quality medicines where the benefits outweigh the risks, and to be used in an efficient and cost-effective manner. It is against this background that the Government considers that the goal of innovation work should also remain in the Swedish Medical Products Agency's regulatory letter. At the same time, I am not saying that nothing needs to be done or that we have done nothing. In my reply, I explained that the Government has given the Medical Products Agency and the other relevant authorities a clear mandate to take stock of current procedures and working methods and, if necessary, revise them to ensure that the control systems we have also deal with the risk of undue influence. I described the joint group of authorities working together on these issues. I also described the MPA's specific report on the inventory of existing control systems – that they work well and effectively. I described that there is zero tolerance to all forms of bribery. This is, of course, unacceptable. But with that said, I think it is incredibly important that you do not have a picture where the starting point is that the pharmaceutical industry in general is made up of villains and nothing else. I see challenges. But the difference between us is perhaps that I do not see this as black or white and where the pharmaceutical companies are by definition villains. We need them, too.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-157	Mr President, I would like to Doctors and industry have two different interests. Doctors want to help patients. The pharmaceutical industry wants to make money. This doesn't always make sense; most of the time it doesn't make sense. The Government must therefore see the truth as it is: the pharmaceutical industry is the world's most profitable industry, and those who submit to the directives have very good opportunities to make a career. What we can see in concrete terms is that approximately half of the Swedish Medical Products Agency's investigators have previously been involved in pharmaceutical companies, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's own conflict declaration. So we are dealing with an industry that distorts statistics, doing studies designed to arrive at the desired results and research that is not published if it does not produce the desired results. In fact, the industry is like a criminal. The media have brought up cases of bribed doctors, and I can mention some high-profile cases. Professor Elias Eriksson was commissioned by the pharmaceutical company Lundbeck to do PR for antidepressants by claiming that they were not suicidal, although the opposite was proven. All his contacts with the manufacturers were hidden away, the Treasury was involved in financing his study through the Swedish Research Council and the pharmaceutical company made him promise not to publish anything without their approval. Finally, it was revealed that there was no real study. Senior physician Håkan Jarbin at BUP received 80 000 SEK to promote psychopharmaceuticals. As a result, sales rose by 331 per cent in the 10-14 age group and by 140 per cent in the 15-19 age group. To thank him for his help, he collected a total of 600 000 kronor. Then he was appointed expert and responsible for writing treatment recommendations for the National Board of Health and Welfare. The Psychiatrist Ylva Ginsberg went from promoting, on behalf of pharmaceutical companies, the prescription of adhd drugs for adults and was then employed as an impartial, objective and expert expert at the National Board of Health and Welfare. Several pharmaceutical companies have paid her to give lectures and do PR for all these different adhd preparations. There have been amounts of 115 000 SEK, 34 000 SEK and 18 000 SEK – all of this according to the Swedish Medical Products Agency. Confidentiality agreements with the pharmaceutical companies aimed not to disclose sensitive information about the studies without express approval from the companies. Isn't this really like prostitution? You still seem to have quite a few customers.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-165	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear. Although there are definitely problems and challenges related to the pharmaceutical industry – we should of course be vigilant about it, handle it and not be naive – I simply do not share the dark picture that Margareta Larsson paints here. The pharmaceutical industry also contributes with new and effective medicines that make Swedish healthcare better. But we should not be naive, and that is also why the government gave these special assignments and in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter has followed up the issues that existed. Our assessment today is that the authorities are working together on conflict declarations for their external experts. They have a common structure for dealing with this. SBU has also started working with other Nordic countries to get a larger base to hire experts from. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare also has a Nordic cooperation in this area. The Government considers that the authorities are aware of the risk of bias in published data and that they are also developing cooperation in this regard, and that the ongoing cooperation of authorities, within the framework of the Council of Governance with knowledge and within the framework of the national pharmaceutical strategy, can also be expected to lead to a generally strengthened cooperation with the authorities, which I believe will be very good. Medicines should be safe and safe. We will, of course, ensure that they are constantly evolving, so that care is smarter. Sweden must have a high level of knowledge and competence in the development and production of medicines. It has its own value. It is clear that the state, health care and the pharmaceutical world must cooperate well in this regard. But we must also make clear demands and not be naive. But we must also see the importance of the good that the pharmaceutical industry can also contribute to strengthening the quality of Swedish healthcare. At the same time, we must have control and enforcement systems that work.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-169	Mr President, I would like to In any case, it is attractive that this minister dares to admit that there is a problem. It's good to hear there's a small opening there. But it is worrying that there is still no real political will to clean up this dirty business. I think it's cowardly. It also helps to put citizens of that country at risk, while at the same time damaging the credibility of both health care and public authorities. I therefore feel that the government's position on this issue is irresponsible. With regard to these declarations of violence, which the Government mentioned earlier, we have clearly seen that they do not really care what is in them. So far, it has not been bothered that the experts who have had a decisive impact on the treatment recommendations have conducted studies with the pharmaceutical companies. However, there are confidentiality agreements with the companies to keep quiet with sensitive and harmful information for the companies. The experts have received hundreds of thousands of crowns to popularise the companies' preparations, which the experts in the next second recommended for higher prescriptions in the recommendations of the Medical Products Agency and the National Board of Health and Welfare. As recently as last year Svenska Dagbladet did a review where it was shown that experts at the Swedish Medical Products Agency have hidden their income from the pharmaceutical industry. The Authority's own control had not demonstrated any conflict of interest. But Svenska Dagbladet's review shows something else. What do you do? Yes, you do as you always do and acknowledge that there are shortcomings and promise to review routines. You always do. This is what is called institutional corruption. In the people's mouth, it's called banana republic.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-173	Mr President, I would like to It can be noted that the requirement for assessments and the relationship between benefit and risk is a common thread throughout the pharmaceutical legislation. It is also a requirement based on EU directives, as this is one of the areas that is harmonised. One can say that one of the essential requirements of pharmaceutical legislation for a new medicinal product to be authorised for sale is that the relationship between risk and benefit is favourable. I believe again that it is important to emphasise that patient safety issues, including, for example, the proper functioning of side-effect reporting, are generally important issues for the government. This is also reflected, among other things, in the national pharmaceutical strategy and its related action plan that we have been working on during this parliamentary term. At the same time, the government feels that the governance of the authorities is also based on trust, which is why we do not like to go in and give commissions for prioritization of instructional tasks. We have an ongoing dialogue with all our authorities. We have clearly informed ourselves about how the work looks and how it continues, in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. We have also explained in detail the government's position on these issues, which there is every opportunity to take part in, and we have explained this to the Riksdag. However, I have to get back to this: yes, I see challenges, but the question is not black and white. It cannot therefore be said that all pharmaceutical companies are villains and that everything else is in a different way, but it will be about balances and having adequate control and enforcement systems in the future.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-179	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge has asked me what measures I intend to take to clarify the definition of overall social composition in the fields of school activity. One of the fundamental principles of the Swedish school system is that all children and pupils have the right to an equivalent education. A serious system weakness that the School Commission points out in relation to the Swedish school is the increasing school segregation. This is written in SOU 2017:35. Differences in performance between schools are widening, and this increase is largely explained by the increase in differences between school pupil compositions based on family and migration backgrounds. The composition of student groups, with regard to pupils' needs and conditions, affects schools' ability to live up to the school law's goal of an equivalent education of high quality. The legislative proposal referred to by Ida Drougge aims to reverse this trend. The proposal in the Council of Law referral Collection for School introduces in the School Act (2010:800) a specialization clause whereby the head of the school forms preschool class, primary school and secondary school should actively promote a comprehensive social composition of pupils in their school units. The Government considers that the Vice-Chancellor of the above-mentioned school forms should also have a responsibility to promote a comprehensive social composition of teaching groups within his/her school. The directional provision implies an obligation to demonstrate that it is working systematically and forward in order to achieve the objective of a comprehensive social composition. On the other hand, the provision does not aim to require the State to regulate in detail how this is to be done. In its report, the School Commission states that the concept of "universal social composition" is not suitable for being defined in a constitutional text, but should be given more specific meaning in the light of the circumstances in which the principals operate. As the School Commission's report shows, the wording focuses on student groups with different socio-economic backgrounds. As stated in the legislative referral, the Government shares the view that it would not be meaningful to define in law the concept of, or to specify the precise circumstances that would prevail in order to achieve the objective. Instead, it should be up to each principal to decide on the basis of local circumstances and needs within the framework of the current regulatory framework. The starting point must, of course, be the reality and demographic conditions that apply in each municipality. I note that there are several examples of principals, for both municipal and independent schools, who are already actively involved in organising their activities in such a way that the composition of and between the principal's school units will be more comprehensive. These could include strategic planning of new schools and different models for schools' catchment areas. There are also interesting examples of principals who work with, among other things, outreach activities to guardians and students. The legislative proposal aims to promote such initiatives and clarify the responsibility for the issue. In the Government's view, it is of the utmost importance that the necessary expansion of the school that Sweden is facing in the coming years, due to the increase in the number of pupils, is done in a way that promotes equivalence and reduces segregation.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-186	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Gustav Fridolin! I would like to start by saying that segregation is obviously not a good thing. It is therefore not good that we have schools with great segregation and that there is a big difference between students and pupils' social backgrounds. That is not something we should be seeking, but rather something we should be counteracting. However, my view is that we need to go at the heart of the problems that create segregation. This is housing segregation, and the key to it lies in the basic problem of parents in exclusion. This shows all the research in this area. The Swedish National Agency for Education also released a report this week that points to the fact that parents' background and whether they have a job or not play an incredibly big role. We need to attack that. I have visited many schools, and I think that the Minister can recognise that when you meet schools that have managed to reverse their performance – which are in difficult conditions but have managed to reverse the results – there is one thing all these schools say. It is that they have stopped seeing students as an excuse for the low results and instead focused on the effects that research says increase the results. It is about skilled teachers, and they have made use of the career service system where teachers can be paid extra for working in a vulnerable area. The municipality has acquired the conditions through more resources. If you have a more difficult challenge, you need more resources, and you have got it. It is about more teaching time with skilled teachers and about order and order so that there is studyo and the opportunity to focus and concentrate. When you have done this and systematically worked with the quality work, the results have turned around. As long as you see the students and student composition as an excuse for low results, however, I think we are unfortunately not going anywhere. That is the great risk I see with the Government's proposal – that it further weakens the excuses we unfortunately all too often see and use in Swedish schools. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he views this and whether he sees no such risks. I understand that you don't want to print out what the term should mean in detail. I respect that, and I understand the arguments. I can also agree to some extent with them. But then, as the Minister expresses himself in his reply, one places a great responsibility on municipalities and principals to develop and work on this – to put time and energy on it. As I said, there are many other things that we also need to spend time and energy on in Swedish schools – and other things that we know affect the results more than this.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-193	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for raising the question, Ida Drougge! I tried to listen carefully, and this time I actually don't think there was anything in the interpellier that I disagree with. I think we have fairly similar descriptions of what needs to be done in this. Firstly, it is about having high expectations of each student. You should not be stamped at school on the basis of which family you come from, which home you have or how your siblings have been before you, but each student should be judged according to their conditions and get the absolute best conditions for achieving high results. Of course, it is extremely important to have that perspective every time we work with segregation and to ensure that resources reach those students who have the toughest or don't have as much with them when they come to school. It is not that we have lower expectations, but on the contrary that we have higher expectations of the school system to work with the very students for whom the school means most for the future. Secondly, the answer to the specific question is whether I see the risks of this being regulated: No, I don't, because this is already something that every principal is working on – and according to law should also work with, for example in the allocation of resources. There is already a legal requirement in the School Act to allocate the resources of the school in such a way that it becomes more for the schools with the most difficult tasks. It is, for example, about how to allocate career services or how to allocate financial resources. It is therefore a perspective that must be found with every principal, and every principal today has a legal requirement to work on this. I also agree with you that it is extremely important that this is done, Ida Drougge, so that resources – as you say – are allocated correctly. I believe that we need to ensure that it increases in relation to today, and that is one of the reasons why the government stands for the state to take greater responsibility for funding the school. In the budget that Parliament has put together, there is a total amount of support that finally amounts to 6 billion annually and where it goes more to everyone but most to the schools that need it most. I agree that housing segregation is the basic problem and the reason we have school segregation. I also agree that we must, of course, break down housing segregation, build more mixed residential areas and combat exclusion and other social problems. But both I and the interpellant know that today we have a school system that reinforces housing segregation. Instead of bridging housing segregation and gaps, the gaps are increasing, especially in the case of older pupils in comprehensive school. Only this week, a report from the National Board of Education showed this. We also know that we have forward-looking heads who are making efforts to tackle this. Örebro has quite recently made the redebated choice to close a secondary school in a tough area to ensure that students meet there at other schools. In Gislaved – a municipality governed by the interpellant party and my party together with the Social Democrats – it has chosen to change the catchment areas to all schools so that students of different backgrounds meet at all schools. I believe that all principals should have a responsibility to break segregation when it comes to taking into account in school planning the location of the school, the location of the catchment area and how to meet parents as a school and ensure knowledge of the school. We should be aware of this responsibility and plan our activities accordingly. It will look very different for an independent municipal principal, for a small municipality and for a large municipality. But responsibility should be there and clearly stated in law.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-203	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister says, schools and municipalities already have this responsibility – resources should be allocated according to needs. So this responsibility already exists. If, given this, we shouldn't label students from their backgrounds and shouldn't see them as their background, but see them according to what they perform, why should we spend more time focusing on the background? Why should we tell a student that, given the student's background, it needs to go to school with students from another background because the student will then perform better? Then we'll do exactly what we say we don't want to do. Given that schools today already have such a mission, why put even more time and focus on it? That is my great objection. Instead, I and the Moderates think that we need to introduce an active school election. The problem is not that we have parents in Sweden who care about their children's choices and schooling and where they go to school. The problem is that these choices are not made by everyone in society. There we see a difference in the socio-economic background. Parents with more information on how our education system works make school choices for their children to a greater extent, while other parents do not. This is natural and does not mean that these parents care less about their children. However, they need more guidance in making a school choice. That's why we need to have an active school election. This is a concrete proposal which we have put forward from a moderate point of view. It does not take a lot of time, is not very complicated and requires no different interpretation rules. That is why we believe it is much more effective. I agree with the Minister that we cannot keep schools that do not work – schools in exclusion areas that fail to deliver results year after year. There we want to go further than the government and actually close these schools, as a final measure, even if it is a municipal activity. We want the state to be able to go in and govern this much more clearly than is the case today. It is precisely this – that it does not work – that should be the reason for shutting down a business. Should we put down good schools that have a bad student composition? That is the alternative. I don't think so.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-208	Mr President, I would like to In the bill that we have presented to the Riksdag, which includes, among other things, the legal clause that we are now discussing, there is also the possibility for the state to use the same tools against municipal schools that do not meet the standards that we can use today against independent schools. I agree that the state must be able to do this, and such a legal requirement is contained in the bill submitted to Parliament. Active school elections can certainly be a way for a municipality to ensure that you get a comprehensive social composition. However, it must be combined with more measures, and municipalities will also need more tools to succeed in this. Free schools are also calling for more tools, such as not having to have a queue. When it comes to the most popular free schools, applicants are required to have been in line already from BB. This is found in the referrals that came into the School Commission's final report, and we will deal with it in an investigation in the future. Mr President, I would like to Yes– municipalities have a responsibility to distribute resources in a good way. This needs to be done more by the municipalities. This law needs to be followed up, and we need to ensure it better. The municipalities are not currently responsible for breaking segregation in their planning. This is an important responsibility to carry on, not least now. The generation of school politicians who sit around Sweden's municipalities is the generation that will plan and inaugurate most new schools since the introduction of comprehensive school. The reason for this is simply that there are many more students – more children are born in Sweden. It is amazing, but when we do this we will of course ensure that we also build away segregation in where the schools are located. We will ensure that it becomes natural for children who grow up in a house and for children who grow up in apartment buildings to go to the same school and to have confidence in it. We should remember that when Swedish school was at its strongest, it was quite obvious that you could meet the housekeeper's and the director's children in the same class. Today, children in our urban regions are sorted according to background. It is due to the segregation of homes and to a school system on top that reinforces this segregation. Instead, I want a school system that bridges segregation. I mentioned that there are a number of municipalities that are doing such a job today. Örebro and Gislaved are two of them. Huddinge and Gävle are two additional municipalities, which are governed by bourgeois parties, where I have visited schools that have been planned on the basis that they should lie and have a catchment area in such a way that children with different backgrounds, experiences and families meet. This leaves two questions from me to the interpellier. Does the MP think it is good that in Örebro, Gislaved, Huddinge and Gävle schools are planned in such a way that children with different backgrounds and socio-economic conditions meet at the same school? And if the Member of Parliament thinks this is a good thing, should not all municipalities and independent schools try to plan their school activities on the basis of the conditions that exist in that particular municipality or independent school?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-216	Mr President, I would like to I can't think of any municipality in Sweden that doesn't try to do this, but if the minister has any examples – some bad examples – of municipalities that don't plan their newly located schools after this, I'm happy to welcome them. We have to ask ourselves whether this is a problem in the country's municipalities. Is there a problem with municipalities not seeing this? The proposal also means that the Vice-Chancellor will work on this. It is not a proposal that only extends to the country's municipal politicians and that simply means that they, or we – I am also a municipal politician – will be better at taking our responsibility. That is not just what this proposal is about, but it is aimed at everyone in school – including principals and school managers. My firm opinion is that we are out on very slippery ice when we say that Swedish school was better before because the student composition then was better, and I do not think it is very fresh. This means that we say that it is the students' background, and that the composition is right, that makes them perform properly. I don't buy it. There is also research on this. Gabriel Heller Sahlgren has compiled a compilation in the field of Swedish and international research. It shows that peer effects do not automatically lead to improvements in the performance of Swedish schools, but instead it is what I and the Minister have talked about here – teaching time, qualified and talented teachers, order and high expectations – that gives knowledge results. That is what we need to focus more on.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-221	Mr President, I would like to I don't think school segregation is fresh. I do not think it is fresh that children are sorted into different schools according to the economy of their parents. In OECD studies, the recommendations regarding the Swedish school system are extremely clear: If the trend of growing knowledge that we now have is to continue, you must break inequality, and a crucial part of that is to break segregation. Andreas Schleicher was in Sweden and took note of the School Commission's conclusions. He said: I think you'll have an easy time getting through what's about more resources, but when you go to break the segregation, it'll be harder. But you must have the courage to take that fight, because if you really want to ensure that all children get the knowledge they need for life, it is about both that there are enough resources in the schools that need it and that children from different backgrounds meet in the same schools. We have agreed that free schools with queues should also be able to receive new arrivals. They couldn't before. It is the first change in the rules that any government has been able to push through in 25 years, and I think we need to move forward. It is a very modest proposal that municipalities and independent authorities should in any case take this into their planning and show how to plan when building new or expanding schools. I can come to many municipalities where there are schools where there are children living in villas and children growing up in apartment buildings. I also know, after meeting councillors in Gislaved among others, how difficult these decisions are to make but how good it can be once they are taken. This provides support for municipalities and free schools to dare to make these decisions. I think it is a support that we should give.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-225	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me what readiness I have, in the light of the Swedish Law Council's criticism, for Swedish schools to function if the government has misjudged how far the consequences can be. Stockhaus has also asked me whether, in my area of responsibility, I will take any steps to improve the preparation of the proposal on profit limits with regard to the impact on schools. Maria Stockhaus' question concerns the Council's opinion on the Government's legislative referral Permits to receive public funding in social services, assistance compensation and school law-regulated activities. First of all, let me emphasise that the Government, with the proposal, takes on board the wishes of taxpayers and ensures that public funds, as a general rule, will be reinvested in welfare activities for the benefit of children, pupils and users and employees. The Government considers this to be a necessary and proportionate measure to protect the public interest. The Government has in the bill, which was submitted to Parliament on 20 March (prop. 2017/ 18:159), took into account the views of the Law Council and made certain clarifications and changes in accordance with the Law Council's proposal. But on some issues the government makes a different assessment than the Law Council. These are shown in their entirety by the proposal now being tabled. The Government has developed the impact description in the bill compared to the basis of the Welfare Investigation and the Legislative Referral. The impact assessment has shown, among other things, that almost one third of social services and school companies have zero or negative operational capital. A supplementary proposal has therefore been drawn up aimed at creating the conditions for an operating profit for the smallest companies with small asset ownership opportunities. The proposal is now for a referral. The Government agrees with the Legislative Council's view that it is difficult to estimate how many actors may be able to phase out their activities as a result of the proposal or how many of these activities can be carried on by another owner. Private operators can already go bankrupt, lose their licence or opt out of business. Municipalities should therefore always be prepared to assume their statutory responsibilities to provide services to all citizens if any actor disappears. Drawing conclusions from operating margins in historical data is difficult, as the behaviour of companies is likely to change when the proposal is introduced. In addition, the yield requirements vary between operators. However, the regulation is designed to allow operators an operating profit corresponding to a market return in relation to the capital invested in the business. It is against this background that the government estimates that most of the activities will remain. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the additional proposal now referred to means less stringent rules for certain private operators in the school system, such as non-profit associations and limited liability companies with a special profit distribution limit. I would also like to emphasise that the government's view is that the impact assessment of this proposal is much more comprehensive than is normal for this type of reform. Compared with, for example, the free school reform in the 1990s, the impact assessment of this proposal is considerably more detailed.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-231	Mr President, I would like to I find it strange to use it as an argument that there have been other Council referrals of the past that have had a bad basis, 27 years ago, so then we can have it now too, and this legislative referral is better than the previous ones. That sounds like a really bad excuse. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the report is not a sound basis for decision. Even with the changes that the government is now proposing – we will see what the referee says about the proposal – the everyday life of 250 000 students is threatened. When proposals are put forward which are in danger of having such great consequences, I really wonder how prepared they are. It is fine to say: we do not believe that this is going to happen. We do not make the same assessment as the Law Council, despite the fact that the Law Council, the Swedish National Audit Office and a huge number of other heavy actors all agree quite unequivocally with the Swedish Law Council's criticism. So the government ignores the criticism. Fine, you can do that as a government. But the fact that you don't have any preparedness if you're wrong, I can't understand. I therefore repeat the question posed by Maria Stockhaus in her interpellation: what is the Minister's readiness, in the light of the Council's criticism, for the Swedish school to function if the government has misjudged the extent of the consequences?
i-ad28066bb58a3106-234	Mr President, I would like to The Member of Parliament is conducting the debate a little bit in the headwind. It was not so long ago that we could read in the newspaper about a school run by a listed profit group that is to be closed down because it does not earn enough money for the group. What happens then? Well, the municipality goes in and takes over the school and its activities to ensure that the children who chose the school, who want to go to that school and who are happy with each other will not next summer live in uncertainty about what will happen after the summer vacation. It was a school. There are far more serious examples in the Swedish free school history – free school groups and free schools that basically met students and teachers with a note on the door where it said: Sorry, I have emptied the company of money and conkat the business. Good luck! By the summer, students, teachers and municipalities have faced a great deal of uncertainty about what is to happen. Then other actors have stepped in. The municipalities have the statutory responsibility to be prepared for and ensure that all pupils are given a school place. Even idead actors have gone in. For example, after the JB Group's bankruptcy, we could see how Grillska high school, driven by Stockholms Stadsmission, took over and ran the schools in the Mälardal region without any profit requirements and with reinvestment. That's what the alert looks like. Municipalities should ensure that all children get a good education. Should there be free schools that do not want to comply with the rules but are in the Swedish school system because you want to pick money out of the business, then the municipalities have to take on, perhaps together with other more serious free school actors. The rules we are proposing contain a number of fairly large changes compared to those contained in the report. The government is clear that the smaller players who do not have operational capital should still be able to go with surplus, and a proposal on how to do this is now out for consultation. We also make it clear that the rules are different for those activities that otherwise guarantee that tax money will not be removed from the business. These are non-profit associations or limited liability companies with special profit distribution limits. It is a special form of public limited liability company that provides the same security and independence for the owner as another public limited liability company, but where there are rules that ensure that the money entering the business and profits also stays there and is not transferred to and charged in a tax haven. If you feel that these rules are difficult to follow and that the control that exists in the bill that I have submitted to the Riksdag becomes difficult to enforce, you as a limited liability company have every opportunity to transform your company into a limited liability company with a special profit distribution limit. This guarantees the public, to us as taxpayers, that they will take good care of the money that comes into the company. They will not be paid out in profit, but the money will be used to create the best possible school. Then there is something that the government is, so to speak, fine with. Mr President, I would like to I think it is reasonable to make demands on those who have the confidence of the public to take care of our most important welfare mission, to run school. And I think it is reasonable that one of the requirements is that the tax money that goes into the business should actually also benefit students and teachers. To be honest, I find it strange that this raises political debate.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-241	Mr President, I would like to That tax money spent on school and education should benefit the students, that they should go to education, that they should go to teachers' salaries, that they should go to material and to everything that enables students to manage their schooling, get a job and build this country strong, that is not what attracts attention. Then the Minister and the government have really misunderstood the whole criticism of the Moderates and the Opposition. The problem with this legislation is how it is formulated. There's nothing wrong with the purpose. As the Law Council has understood, the overall aim of the proposal is to strengthen confidence in the welfare system and the welfare system. If this leads to the closure of schools for 250 000 pupils – schools that work and give students the chance to have a good education, to enter the labour market and build this country strongly – I cannot understand how it strengthens confidence in our welfare activities. I and the Minister have probably also met many examples in municipalities where schools are evened out. There are some schools that are doing well. Then you take money from those schools. Then there are schools that go badly. In this way you work in a while until the deficits or loss in a school get too high, and then you close down that business. I know a lot of municipalities around Sweden and in Stockholm that close down their upper secondary schools and high schools and merge them to increase efficiency. It also usually leads to better school results, so it doesn't always have to be wrong. But so do all municipalities in Sweden. To point out that it is free schools that have the aim of only operating efficiently is wrong. I don't think it's crazy that you should operate efficiently, I don't. But of course, the money should be spent on teaching. But, as I said, that is not the problem with the proposal. The problem is how the proposal is designed in itself and that it is linked to the operational capital. Yes, you can reshape your business. For example, you can transform your activities into a foundation. I've been to a school at Lidingö, Christina School. The owners only own that school, and they work as principals. They have previously worked in an activity conducted in the form of a foundation. It is much easier to collect money for owners and board members than in a limited liability company. This proposal does not get to grips with this. The owners argue that limited liability companies also have a duty to have more transparency than foundations. Therefore, they feel that the foundation was a much better form of company and a much better way to operate in order to gain efficiency and to promote a good school. It is the technology and the way in which the government has formulated its proposal that puts 250 000 pupils at risk of losing their school. Then you don't have a backup plan for how to solve it.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-249	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge and I have quite often meaningful discussions on school policy in Parliament's chambers and in other contexts. But here I have to say that I think the argument is ridiculous. To claim that the government is putting forward a proposal that threatens 250 000 children's schools is based on the idea that every free school in Sweden is run by someone who wants to be able to collect tax money from the business. That is not how I look at free schools in Sweden. It is not the kind of actors in Friskolansverige that I meet. Very many of these actors already have rules that make them idea-based, which ensure that the money that goes into the business will also stay there. There are very many others who are clear that even if you have chosen to organise yourself in a limited company form, the aim is not to pick money out of the business. With the proposal contained in the proposal that we have tabled, it will have the choice either to transform itself into a limited liability company with a special dividend limit or to comply with the rules on how to move money over the years. The vast majority of free schools are run by people who are passionate about the education mission to give a good school and who do not dream of picking tax money out of the business for themselves a. They will have no problem following the proposed rules contained in this bill. But there may also be other free schools. I can't see those free schools either I or the Moderates will defend themselves. These are free schools that choose to have fewer teachers than other schools, lower teachers' salaries and lower teachers' continuity, while tax money is being moved away from the business. Those students who need support do not get the support they should have while the tax money ends up in tax havens or through a clever arrangement disappears from those for whom they were thinking. These free schools have ruined the reputation of all free schools. One cannot emphasize enough how the reputation of free schools was affected by, for example, the JB bankruptcy. That is why we need rules that can rebuild confidence that the public, the state, municipalities should be able to cooperate with independent actors and creators who want to run schools in their own way. I think it is good that we can have that cooperation, but it will be based on having certain rules. I think, as I said, that one of these rules should be that tax money that comes in should go to business. If you invest the money in equity, you should be able to charge it in market returns. But the tax money is to get into the business and benefit the students.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-255	Madam President, I would like The House points out that the Commission's assessment of the proportionality of the proposal is inadequate, that both the general interest and the problem description are unclear. It is therefore not possible to determine whether the proposal has reasonable proportionality or not. The Swedish Financial Control Agency considers that no assessment of the publicly funded effects can be made. Statskontoret says that the investigation does not present any evidence that makes it possible to assess whether the benefits of these proposals are proportionate to the major consequences. According to the Law Council, this is not unfounded criticism. On the contrary, it believes that there is a basis for criticism. I do not think it is very strange, therefore, that as an opposition representative and many others around the country I ask the question: If it is the case that the government has misjudged the consequences of its proposal – consequences such as the Law Council, Statskontoret, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, Kammarkollegiet, the Swedish National Audit Office and others have presented and are worried about – what do you do then? If the government, which is almost the sole actor, turns out to be wrong, what do you do? I still have no answer to that question. What if the government has misjudged this? It is true that free schools are the schools in Sweden that perform absolutely best. Some of the best schools in the country are free schools. However, many of the country's worst schools are also free schools.
i-ad28066bb58a3106-259	Madam President, I would like The MP! I have tried to explain that, as Swedish legislation looks, there is a readiness in the municipalities to ensure that every child receives a good education. Unfortunately, this readiness has had to be tested when free schools suddenly decide to close a school because it does not deliver enough money or goes bankrupt because an owner has emptied the company of money. Then the readiness has proved to be good. The students have been able to get a good schooling. The reason for the proposal is that we should not have to find ourselves in that situation again. We should know that whoever runs a school in Sweden, the one that you and I give the confidence to give our children education, should be someone who wants that very thing, namely to give our children education. It shouldn't be anyone who thinks there's an opportunity to make themselves a hack. I think it is obvious that we should have confidence in those who get to start a school in Sweden. These rules allow for such confidence. If the rules are supported by Parliament, I believe that confidence in Friskolesverige will be able to increase. That would be welcome, and the proposal would be very useful. There's supposed to be free schools. It should be possible to choose between different schools. But you should be sure that at the school where my child goes, there goes every penny of tax that I and others pay into giving children the very best education. I think that this is a reasonable demand to make for those who run free schools.
