i-71e745b581016022-0	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the proposal on basic medical service. We welcome a more flexible regulatory framework and see great benefits in that all doctors who choose to specialize in Sweden receive one and the same introduction to Swedish healthcare and medical profession. With a modern and more coherent medical training, prospective doctors can be equipped with broad skills and tools that provide good conditions for quality and patient-safe care. The hope is, of course, that we will get to grips with the fact that AT seats are too few and with the unsustainable fact that waiting times for AT are too long. With a more flexible educational structure, we can actively address this problem and create a more effective path to specialisation in the medical profession. This is therefore, to a large extent, a good proposal that we can support. However, we in the Swedish Democrats have highlighted two specific areas in our accompanying motion, which form the basis of our claims. I will go into these areas a little closer here and now. In the present proposal, the Swedish Democrats see the need for a regulation to ensure a clearly regulated quality review of basic service. Both basic and specialist training are being examined today. This type of review is extremely important and can be a tool to ensure that education is of high quality and that any shortcomings are addressed and addressed. A compulsory quality review of basic service is a prerequisite for a good quality of education, which in turn creates a high level of medical competence. In order to prevent this type of review being affected by financial conditions, we believe that the quality review should be carried out by an external operator, i.e. an operator that has no financial, administrative or organisational links with the healthcare provider and can thus contribute to more transparent comparisons between healthcare providers. That is also why we are proposing a mandatory and external quality review of the basic service, which should be clearly regulated in a regulation. Madam President, I would like It is worrying that the proposal on basic service opts for the abolition of compulsory service in psychiatry. Poor psychiatric skills may result in negative consequences for patients with mental disorders and not least jeopardise legal certainty in forced care. When it comes to clinical experience, psychiatry must be seen as a priority area of activity. It is essential to be able to make severe psychiatric assessments in areas such as suicide, psychosis and acute affective conditions. These conditions do not exist sufficiently in primary or emergency care to ensure that the knowledge objectives are met. If we do not see the importance of maintaining clinical experience and a broad psychiatric competence of licensed doctors when we are now replacing the existing public service with basic service, we risk impairing the care and legal certainty of patients belonging to a very vulnerable group. We must be able to ensure that newly graduated doctors have sufficient knowledge of psychiatry and psychopharmacology to be given the right to issue health certificates and to be given full prescription rights for psychopharmaceuticals. Madam President, I would like In view of this, the Swedish Democrats believe that there is a need for clear recommendations for basic service and that they should give our doctors clinical expertise in the area of psychiatric care. We also want compulsory service in psychiatry to be lifted for further treatment, as we see the need to reconsider the existing assessment. With our request, we would therefore like to emphasise the importance of clinical service in psychiatry and to work to ensure that the psychiatric competence of our doctors is good. Basically, it is about creating patient-safe care for an already vulnerable patient group. At the same time, we want to highlight the importance of Swedish psychiatry being an area that needs to be prioritised and that we need to meet the specific needs that exist in a realistic and effective way. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the Swedish Democrats' request in reservation No 2.
i-71e745b581016022-9	Madam President, I would like This is a good proposal on which we are relatively agreed. It is a basic position for doctors, which is a restructuring of the training system for doctors – from student to specialist. The proposal is to remove the requirements for clinical training in order to obtain medical authorisation. Today, practical service is a prerequisite for obtaining medical authorisation, and instead of the current structure, it is proposed that a basic year of service be introduced as part of the compulsory section of medical specialisation. This applies entirely regardless of the country in which you received your doctor's degree. The change in practical service is linked to a proposal to extend and restructure current medical training, from a five-year course to a six-year period. Madam President, I would like The Left Party welcomes the government's proposal. We believe that the content is good and that there are good changes. They are sustainable and lead forward. Although the Left Party believes that the bill is broadly good, we have a few questions we want to clarify. Mental illness is increasing, and we need more specialists in psychiatry. There is a shortage today; we need more psychiatrists. Greater knowledge about mental illness in general is also needed, especially in primary care. It is extremely important if you are to cope with mental illness in primary care, which is first-line healthcare. In order to eliminate the current compulsory service in psychiatric clinics, it is necessary to ensure that the educational objectives of the future basic service are designed so that future newly-legitimated doctors acquire the necessary expertise in psychiatry and mental illness. It is a question of ensuring this whole reform and of being able to work on an issue that is ticking on, that is, mental illness. The current proposal also proposes that basic service in primary care should cover three to four months. We think that is far too short a time. Primary care is being promoted by everyone now. It should serve as first-line healthcare, where quality and competence are at the heart of patients. If we are to focus more on primary care, the doctors of the future also need good insight and knowledge about it. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the Left Party believes that basic service in primary care should cover five to six months. Like the Swedish District Medical Association and the Swedish Association for General Medicine, the Left Party believes that the majority of the knowledge requirements that apply to achieve completed basic service can be covered in primary care. Therefore, the duration of primary care should be extended. We believe that the government should come back with a proposal which means that basic service in primary care amounts to five to six months. I call for the approval of Amendment No 3, Madam President, and for the rejection of other motions.
i-71e745b581016022-16	Madam President, I would like Health care is knowledge-intensive. Employees therefore need adequate initial training, but once they have started their work, they also need to have continuous access to the best quality training. Since the 1960s, the responsibility for doctors' initial and continuing training has been shared between the state and county councils. The state is responsible for doctors' basic training at universities, while county councils are responsible for the general service – AT in daily speaking – required to obtain medical ID. When the doctoral degree and general service are completed, all doctors must undergo a specialization period of approximately five years, ST. Specialization service means that doctors are employed within county councils as ST doctors and there develop their specialist competence. What this House is discussing today is basic medical service. This is part of a changed medical education. My colleagues in the committee have previously explained what the change is like. After the degree has been completed and the licence has been issued, the new basic position, which should be a structured introduction to the health care system, is expected. Basic service thus becomes the introduction to a doctor before starting his or her specialist training. It is also an introduction for those who have received their medical ID in another country. Basic service must be available to those who have completed the education, completed the degree and been certified. We from the Christian Democrats believe that this change is good and that it is necessary to do as the government proposes, namely to impose an obligation on county councils to organise basic service to the extent necessary to have sufficient doctors in clinical practice. This will be the crux of the matter in the future. If you don't get the chance to do your basic work, the flow of new employees will be stopped. One of the most acute problems of primary care is the chronic shortage of general practitioners. Sweden has far too few general doctors, specialists in general medicine. The shortage is there even though the number of places in medical education has increased over the years. The background is that the county councils themselves determine the number of training places when the specialist courses – the ST courses – are to be dimensioned, and not infrequently the assessment at the clinic level. The lack of national coordination is obvious. I think we need to find better forms than we do today to plan so that we have enough places for basic and specialist service. The proposal that has been put on Parliament's table is good, and we have a broad consensus on it. I am also pleased with the exercise from the Liberals that basic service should also be possible to do in Åland. This was also approved by the committee. Madam President, I would like It is also necessary to say a few words about the importance of continuous access to continuing training for health workers. A report presented yesterday by the Medical Association shows that only a small proportion of county councils require further training for specialist doctors in primary care. That's not good. We need structured training for health workers, and an individual adaptation should be made for the individual. What we are discussing today is mainly basic service in the changing medical education, but it is essential that we also highlight the need and importance of continuing to replenish knowledge and competence. Therefore, planned and quality assured training is required.
i-71e745b581016022-28	Madam President, I would like I have to say that we who talk about health care issues sometimes boast about the amazing health care results we have in Sweden compared to many other countries. I myself often mention that The Lancet in his major survey ranked Swedish healthcare on site no. 4. I think this is absolutely extraordinary, and it is well worth remembering when you are always faced with headlines in newspapers and rather simplified debates about everything failing in health care. In fact, it is worth remembering that Swedish health care mostly succeeds and that it succeeds better than almost all the other countries on this globe. The reason why Swedish healthcare succeeds as well as it does I think is largely to be found in the staff. We have a very well-trained health care professional. We have fantastic doctors, extremely knowledgeable nurses and talented and engaged nurses in our care organization. They are passionate about their work, and even when they sometimes work under difficult conditions, they do their utmost to ensure that we receive very high quality healthcare. For this to be possible, the county councils, municipalities and the state must also assume their responsibilities and the state ensures that we have a good and well-functioning education in the future. The proposal that is on the table today, Madam President, is a step in developing medical education and ensuring that it will be able to function much better in the future. Education is good today, but it can work much better. The education will include, among other things, which I think is very good, the requirement that all doctors, regardless of which country they have received their doctorate in, should have a joint introduction to how Swedish healthcare works. It will increase the quality. This training will be more flexible than the old medical training. I think it is a very great strength with a more flexible medical training in the future; we know that the conditions for healthcare are changing drastically and quickly. We need a more flexible and forward-looking medical training in the future, and I believe that this proposal will be able to contribute to this. I am pleased that there is, in essence, a very broad consensus between the political parties. Virtually all parties think that this is a good proposal, and it is less detail, Madam President, that we are arguing about. I believe that one of the things that makes it possible to feel a certain degree of security is that there are clearly stated demands from both the government and the committee for all doctors to have a good knowledge and knowledge of the major public diseases, including psychiatric diseases, and how to deal with them. This is the knowledge that all doctors need, no matter what they then choose to focus on. For my part, I would like to pay tribute to the Liberals, who in this case have raised the issue of the necessary and sensible cooperation with the Åland Islands. It is the Liberals who have pushed and felt that it is not enough to say that it is the National Board of Health and Welfare that should implement and ensure that it is ensured in the future without the Riksdag having to pronounce this. I would like to pay particular tribute to the Liberals for that. It is wise, and it has also won the committee's general approval – all parties have supported these demands. For my part, it is also reassuring to note that those who are most closely involved – the Medical Association – have long been calling for basic service. As early as 2012, you can find articles from Heidi Stensmyren, President of the Medical Association, where she demands that the medical education be redesigned in this particular direction. That is why it is with some pleasure, Madam President, that I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-71e745b581016022-39	Madam President, I would like Health care is changing and developing rapidly. We face both great opportunities and great challenges. To be able to cope well with, for example, growing healthcare needs and patients with more complex care needs, we need to update and develop the care training. We also need to change our training courses in order to strengthen patient safety as well as to better adapt them to international educational conditions in order to enable greater mobility across national borders. Against this background, a new coherent training system is needed for doctors. The report that we are debating today represents an important step towards achieving this very thing. The report contains proposals that allow for a new six-year medical training that can lead directly to medical identification without requiring public service. This requirement is therefore removed. However, the government, like us in the Parliamentary Social Committee, believes that a structured introduction to health care is needed as part of the doctor's specialist service. That is why, in political agreement, we are now in favour of introducing a compulsory basic post as the start of specialist medical service. The requirement for basic service shall apply equally to all doctors regardless of the country in which the individual has taken his/her medical degree. Madam President, I would like As I said, we agree in committee on setting up basic service and on removing the requirement for AT to obtain a licence. This unity is good, just as Dag Larsson said. Now that we are making significant and strategic changes to our education system, it is important that we agree on the main features so that the changes that we are launching become long-term. However, with regard to the details of what the basic service should contain and how it should be designed, there are slightly different views. The report contains, among other things, requests for exercise of longer periods of service in primary care and compulsory service in psychiatry. There are also referrals that have just stated that psychiatric service should be compulsory. That, I suppose, is also the reason for the exercise that exists on this issue here today. However, the idea of basic duty, Madam President, is not to regulate in detail what the service should be like, but rather to govern it on the basis of knowledge objectives. Me and the Moderates think it's a wise way to go. It is good that we are making political decisions on the overall requirements and objectives of basic service, but we should not regulate in detail how. What I would like to emphasise, however, is the importance of following the consequences of the changes that we are now making through the abolition of AT and the introduction of basic employment, especially in view of how the changes might affect the possibility of recruiting doctors to various specialities and health care forms. To conclude, Madam President, I would also like to thank the Liberals who have tabled a wise proposal which the whole committee has supported, namely to ensure that educational cooperation with Åland can continue and that it will be possible for doctors to carry out basic work in Åland as well as in Sweden. Of course, we should not throw away the well-functioning cooperation that Sweden and Åland have today. On the contrary, we must create the conditions for increased cooperation and mobility. It is fully in line with one of the aims that I and the Moderates see with the reform of Swedish medical education, namely to create a Swedish education system that is more compatible with other countries in order to create the conditions for increased mobility. As a moderate, I am firmly convinced that mobility leads to exchanges of knowledge and ideas, which contributes to a positive development of the Swedish healthcare system.
i-71e745b581016022-46	Madam President, I would like It is welcome that medical education is now changing in this way. In other contexts, we will discuss basic education leading to a licence, but now we are discussing basic service that facilitates the entry into basic service of future doctors coming from other countries, including within the EU. I think it is well-balanced, not too detailed. After all, the National Board of Health and Welfare will provide further guidelines. When I look at what the list contains, I am particularly pleased that ethics is clearly emphasised – this has failed in teaching – and that it addresses various ethical problems and difficult patient decisions that doctors face. Here you have to be trained in how to think and analyze when such problems arise. I am also very pleased that communication has come in here. Many of the reports from patients entering IVO and county councils about one and the other are due to lack of communication, that the benefits and risks of different interventions have not been explained. There is also the issue of medicines. As a clinical pharmacologist from the outset, I cannot stress enough the importance of learning about the benefits and risks of drug treatment during this educational phase. Patients are different, and it may not always be medicines that are the solution to the problem. Then there is the disease prevention work. If we are to complete the healthcare economy in the future, health care needs to be better at preventing ill health. I was pleased with all the applause for this with basic service in Åland. I was there in January this year and looked at the AT-service and clinical service for future doctors in Åland and was very impressed by the supervision they received there. The guide is flawed, unfortunately, in many places in Sweden. In Åland, the language is not a problem for those born in Sweden either. I am pleased that the committee has supported our motion.
i-71e745b581016022-54	Madam President, I would like Elderly care is one of the focus areas of the Swedish Democrats. There we are investing a number of billions than the government, and we are making a number of proposals for municipalities to be able to offer the best care. We will respond to our elderly with awe and respect for the fact that they have striven and often worked hard for a whole life. We must offer the best care we can where those who need society's efforts really get the efforts to which they are entitled and ensure that the efforts are of good quality. That is why we are proposing a new law on rights, a law on care for the elderly, and have commissioned the government to investigate what such a law might look like. There should never be any doubt, whether from the care-needed or from the nearest, about what one can actually expect and demand of all of us – all of us in this room and all of us in society. Our common tax cake is to be distributed to welfare, and the largest pieces are, of course, to be distributed to those who have contributed, perhaps all their lives, to this common cake. We think that writing a reasonable level of living should be changed to good living conditions. Of course, it is not enough to set the limit for older people to have only a reasonable level of living. It should always be good to live. That is why the level of ambition must be increased and the wording must be good living conditions and nothing else. A little while ago we had a chamber debate on aid-assessed shelters, which is a simpler form of intervention for those who, for example, do not need night staffing. On special accommodations, however, the Swedish Democrats believe that binding requirements for night staffing should be in place. It is not enough, as it is today, to have only night-time staffing. To feel safe, you need to know that help comes when you need it, even if it is night. Since it is the municipalities themselves that are responsible for night work, there are differences in access between municipalities. We believe that there should be no difference in how staffing looks depending on where in the country you live. We therefore propose national guidelines that the municipalities have to relate to. The malnutrition of the elderly has increased, and that is something that we must, of course, take very seriously. There are major differences in how food is prepared and served, both between retirement homes and home care services as well as between municipalities. We believe that the meal should be pleasurable and that the staff and the elderly should be able to eat together if needed for various reasons. Today, educational meals are only allowed in dementia departments, but we believe that educational meals should also include other departments when necessary. Getting food in boxes that are heated in microwaves suits some older but far from all. We believe that the elderly must be free to choose for themselves how to get their food. It is not a homogeneous group we are talking about, but all are unique. Some elderly people do not feel well and cannot smell food while others get a pleasurable meal from smelling it. That the meal can also be a social moment between staff and the elderly is important. As a cook or cook, it is known that cooking the food can make the meal a more pleasurable moment for the elderly. The scents that spread during cooking trigger the taste buds and start the appetite. The departments must have trained chefs or cooks who take care of the whole procedure, from the purchase of food to the preparation of food. Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office, when I was an opposition councillor in Västerås city, I was called by a man who lived in a retirement home. He had worked his whole life as a chef, and food was a pleasurable interest in him and of course extremely important. Since the body no longer functioned as it should be, the only thing he had left was food, but he could not cook his own food. He was so sad when he called. The food at his home was directly inferior, and he told us about one horror experience for a meal after another. He had given up his interest in life, and now there was only one will left: He was just waiting to die. The conversation hurt me so much, but it also brought to my attention that the food experience can be so incredibly important to those who can't cook their own food anymore and that a pleasurable meal can be one of the most important parts of an old person's life. We believe that there must be basic requirements for the quality of food for the elderly throughout the country. Elderly care is facing a recruitment challenge. The population is growing, and the elderly are growing. Therefore, changes in staff issues are needed to increase status but also to make it more attractive to work in the care of the elderly. We suggest that the nursing profession, just like the nursing profession, should be a job of identification. In addition, shared tours for staff who do not want them must be removed. When I was trained as a nurse in 1990, we worked every three weekends. It then changed to every other weekend, and after that came the shared tours. Unfortunately, there were many with me who chose to quit and go to other professions because it was too difficult to reconcile with family life. It wasn't worth it. It is not respectful to the staff to expect them to first work in the morning hours with all the morning chores, then go home for a couple of hours and then come back and do all the evening chores. One of the major problems with recruitment is the rapid training of nurses introduced by the government. It doesn't always come out well. Staff misunderstand each other, and staff and residents misunderstand each other, which is serious. For example, signs of illness may be missed. Madam President, I would like I commend our reservation.
i-71e745b581016022-74	Madam President, I would like We all know that we face major challenges in caring for our elderly. In the general political debate, I highlighted three perspectives that I consider extremely important to further develop, namely the provision of skills, the interaction between different actors around the elderly and relatives who need more support. I am proud of the work that the Red-Green Government has begun, as long-term change efforts are needed to adapt elderly care to the demographic and technological challenges of the future. Today, however, I did not intend to continue to commend the government but to focus on what we Social Democrats want to prioritise if we continue to plan the elderly care of the future. Hopefully, many of you are in on it. Firstly, equality. There are too many differences across the country as to how elderly care is designed. Of course, there must be differences and localism, but for the elderly who need help there must be greater clarity in what one can expect from society. As far as the legislation is concerned, Margareta Winberg, who is investigating the Social Services Act, has been given additional mandates to clarify what special regulation for older people could do. It is not the wallet that should decide if you have a good life as an elderly person with a need for support and help. One example is the housing issue, where I see that equality is decreasing. Those who have the opportunity to buy a tenant-owner or rent an expensive newly produced apartment can solve their own need for security and community while those who do not have that opportunity remain in their house alone. In my home country it is often a case of single elderly women in rural areas where the development of property prices has not been very favourable. That picture is available in several parts of our country. It is also unacceptable that those who are not easy to speak for themselves should receive fewer contributions than those who themselves are capable or have strong relatives who run your case. My view is that there is a class gap in which those with lower education, lower levels of knowledge and lower economics are at risk of standing back when the burden on social services increases. Secondly, equality. We know that there are differences in what efforts are being given to women and men. We also know that more women care for their sick and needy relatives at home. Women also take more time off from work to help their aging parents. Here, too, it will be a class question who has the financial opportunity to reduce working hours or buy RUT services to help their aging mom and dad. Anyone who does not have that opportunity will have to fight for himself in a stressful life. A relative's level of knowledge as to what requirements they can impose on unloading and other support for coping also varies greatly. Together, we need to ensure that you get the help and support you need no matter who you are. Thirdly, freedom of choice. Just because you get older does not reduce the need for self - control over your life. The elderly must have a greater influence on what they want to do, how to do it and when to do it. Greater flexibility is needed to adapt to the needs of the elderly. It can be about everything from what activities you want or do not want to participate in and what food you want to eat and how it should be served to how you want help with the most personal care. The fact that freedom of choice has been increased on the basis of the fact that there are a variety of companies and other players on the market seems to me to be an incorrect description. For the elderly, it is hardly a question of the name of the municipality or Carema on the label. It is the stake, the content and the execution that are important. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about research and development. There are many good projects going on around the country to strengthen and develop elderly care. Some are fortunate, others are not. Some people choose to keep, and others end after the project period. However, it is striking how little is evaluated from a scientific perspective. Although nursing research has progressed a great deal over the last decade, I believe that much more research is needed to show what is the most effective management of our elderly, which methods have the best effect and which methods should be rejected. In conclusion, Madam President, we Social Democrats want to build on the good that already exists to a large extent in our elderly care today, but with more equality, more equality, equal choice and more research. This is how we create a secure, modern care for the future, for all. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-71e745b581016022-91	Madam President, I would like We are all well aware that Swedish healthcare and care are facing major challenges in the coming years as a result of demographic and technological developments. In essence, I think that the letter Future Care for the Elderly – a national quality plan, which the report deals with – is a good one. It reviews how important it is to meet involuntary loneliness, the challenge of increasing numbers of people with multi-sickness living at home, advanced healthcare in the home, that more people are affected by dementia, the need for coordination, digitalisation, trust-based governance, the importance of staff and skills provision, family support, how we strengthen quality, knowledge management and research, the importance of the good meal and how case prevention needs to increase. These are some of the points dealt with in the report and the letter. Madam President, I would like It is only when we reach p. 40 that what I was looking for at the outset is mentioned and developed. On p. 40 we can read about the national objectives of ageing policy. These were already laid down 20 years ago in the proposal for a national plan for older people's policy. The first goal is to be able to live an active life and have influence in society and over your everyday life. The second objective is to be able to age safely and maintain independence. The third objective is that older people should be treated with respect. The fourth is about good access to health care. I intend to touch on the first and second points, because they are closely linked – that is, to have an active life and a maintained independence. Do we work that way today in health care and care? Yes, to some extent, but there is real development potential here. Let me take you to our neighboring country, Denmark, a few miles south. I live in Helsingborg, and over to Helsingör it is only 3 1⁄2 kilometers, if you take the nearest road across the Strait. It is actually so close that you can swim across, which also happens in some competitions for the more daring. But the view on care for the elderly is quite different between the two neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark. In short, it can be said that Denmark is engaged in what can be called everyday rehabilitation. I hope you are all well acquainted with the concept. Then what is it? Well, it's that you have a rehabilitation focus and you make the citizens independent. It improves the ability to function and makes older people more independent in everyday life. Denmark has made the journey from compensating to rehabilitating. For me, it is easy to relate to what difference it could make if we had introduced this way of thinking also in Sweden. I'm thinking about my 92-year-old grandmother named Ebba. Let her be a brief example. At the age of 91, she had no home interventions, either care or health care. But after two falls, she needed a lot of effort. Then began a new phase in her life, and at least five six times a day she was helped with the most basic needs. Physical therapy and rehabilitation were completely separate from daily interventions. She received a couple of exercises, and in all honesty they were perhaps done most when the physiotherapist or occupational therapist was in place. She was pleased with the care and care – she really got great help and called the home care staff her angels. At that time many thoughts began in me. She was helped to get out of bed. She had help getting dressed. She was helped to wash and hang laundry. And she was helped to shop. What if, instead, she had been helped to learn again to get out of bed, to put on her clothes, to hang up her laundry, and to shop? In fact, most of this she does today a year later, for she is of the more stubborn timber. But with proper, supportive efforts, this rehabilitation could have gone much faster. Madam President, I would like We need to increase the state of knowledge and research in the field of everyday rehabilitation. We need to change our approach from compensating for rehabilitation. I hope that this journey can be done jointly in this House and in the Social Affairs Committee together with our municipalities and county councils. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-71e745b581016022-103	Madam President, I would like To grow older, if we have the happiness of living for a long time, we will all experience it. Some older Mediterranean cuddles while others are looking for cans in the Sweden where poor pensioners are a sign for a difficult pension settlement. Class and age are reflected in economics but also in ageing as such. The elderly are also not a unified group, but individuals – we must never forget that. The savings and cuts that have been made in the past and that are being made in the care of the elderly have reduced quality. Staff do not have the time to provide the necessary assistance and care. At worst, this has meant that the safety and security of older people have not been met. The Left Party wants an equal and equal care of the elderly with high quality, where the elderly have a real influence on the interventions and their everyday lives and where the staff have good working conditions. For the staff is the key. It's a woman-dominated profession. Upgrade the conditions for both the elderly and the staff! Because it's connected. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has long demanded that the staffing of elderly care be improved and agreed with the previous government in autumn 2014 on an annual investment of SEK 2 billion throughout that term of office. Strengthened staffing leads to better care for the elderly by creating room for staff to spend more time with the elderly but also greater opportunities to jointly develop the business. In February 2017, researchers at the Department of Social Work at Stockholm University published a new report on how the working conditions of elderly care have changed between 2005 and 2015. The study is based on questionnaire responses from approximately 1,200 nurses and health care assistants in the Swedish care of the elderly and from around 4,400 in corresponding positions in the care of the elderly in Denmark, Finland and Norway. The report shows several major changes in Swedish care for the elderly. The number of helpers that a home worker meets during a working day has increased significantly while the staff's room for manoeuvre and the possibility of receiving support in the work of colleagues and managers has decreased. The staff of retirement homes experience their work as significantly more psychologically and physically heavy and also much more time-pressed in 2015 than in 2005. This is obvious in the study, and I think you should all read it. It should be remembered that it was the former Alliance that ruled between 2006 and 2014, when the changes occurred. That's not how we get more people to work in the care of the elderly. It must be good working conditions – this is important and also strengthens the opportunities for older people to have good care for the elderly. Cutting welfare through tax cuts does not benefit the elderly. This is a question of equality and equality. It is time to upgrade the many women, but also men of course, who work in the care of the elderly. Most elderly people want to stay at home for as long as possible. But when the anxiety comes and when the visits to the emergency room become more and more they want to move. The accommodations where there were previously semi-critical older people have now, in the worst case, become direct palliative accommodation. Older people have to fight for their places of residence; it is obvious. This applies regardless of who controls the municipality and whether it is blue or red. It is important to say in this context. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, which came in 2015, says that the possibilities for older people to live in special housing have been limited during the last five years one. You can think about that. The previous government, where we had some budgetary influence from the left, met with investment. More retirement homes need to be built – it is obvious – if this is not to be a class issue that we can now see. Surveys show that it has become increasingly difficult to be granted housing in retirement homes, and about 80 municipalities say that they have such a lack of housing that there is no chance that older people in their municipalities will get housing if they are not dementia, for example. The Left Party believes that it is not reasonable for the elderly not to be offered a place in retirement homes when they explicitly want to move there. Getting older is also a question of equality – the right of all older people to a dignified old age. From the right, there is a lot of complaint about public welfare. It's blacked out pretty bad, I'd say. I think that it is working quite clearly to undermine the credibility of public health care and care for the elderly. The Left Party and I personally are extremely concerned about the pursuit of profit that remains in welfare. I am thinking of one of those who is behind the concept of profit in welfare, the founder of Kreab and dedicated friend of the right Peje Emilsson. He will invest in building exclusive retirement homes with a golden edge for the wealthy elderly. The concept is called Silver Life. It's all inclusive for some people who pay services. The foundation, however, is the municipality's old-age allowance. That's our tax money, isn't it? This is what the famous visions and innovations from welfare companies look like – better for those who are in the best position. This is what the Left wants to see less of in the field of older people's policy. I naturally support the committee's proposal and the plan that exists.
i-71e745b581016022-116	Madam President, I would like Building a society where everyone can age in security and dignity is an urgent goal for the Christian Democrats. A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect, exploitation and care for the very older generation. The elderly should be able to live an active life and retain an influence in society, especially over their own everyday lives, be able to age safely while maintaining independence, be treated with respect and have access to good care and care. Everyone should be seen as a person with their own unique value with different interests and different backgrounds. Good care, need-made housing and self-determination over everyday life are a matter of course throughout life. In the government's letter on the elderly care of the future, there are many good things and many things on which we will be in complete agreement in this House and in a wider circle than that. At the same time, some things are missing, and I will talk about them and add a little bit. The right to decide on your daily life must apply throughout your life. There is, thankfully, no age limit for when self-determination ends. We need to safeguard the right of older people to self-determination, and we want to impose a requirement on the municipalities in law to provide them with freedom of choice in the care of the elderly. Each person has his or her own knowledge and experience that it is worth taking advantage of and taking into account. Your own choices, influence over the efforts being made, dignified treatment, social well-being, safe housing and closeness to medical contacts should be provided in the care of the elderly. To ensure this, we Christian Democrats want every municipality to have a guarantee of dignity. The Christian Democrats also want to introduce a retirement home guarantee, which means that the person who has reached the age of 85 must have the statutory right to move to an adapted home, such as a special accommodation or a shelter, when the person himself considers that the need exists and without an aid assessment. Opportunities to build more flexible with both special housing and sheltered housing within the same property should be developed, as this allows for residual housing and – this is important – maintaining social contacts, even when the ability decreases. But a retirement home guarantee without a retirement home is not worth anything. To meet the promise of a retirement home guarantee, more and different types of retirement homes are needed. Incentives for the construction of retirement homes in municipalities must therefore remain and be increased, and the ambitions of municipalities must be increased. Madam President, I would like For many of the elderly who live alone, home care staff make up their only social contacts or at least a large part of their social contacts. Continuity and sufficient time to build good relationships with home helpers provide the opportunity to build trust and trust, which contributes to the security of the elderly. It is a security that promotes good quality of life and joy of life and prevents mental illness. Unfortunately, the continuity of staff in home care in several municipalities is currently lacking. According to 2016 figures, each home service provider over 65 years of age is visited by 15 different people during a 14-day period. This is the incision. There are those who are better, but unfortunately there are also many who are significantly worse. There we need to look at the good examples to see what makes some succeed better than others. Madam President, I would like We all need to eat. For very many of us, the meal is a highlight of the day, of the week and of the month. That is why we need to increase focus, because the meal for many older people is the highlight of the day. That's when they feel that they get a bit of gold edge in life and that something happens. Of course, it promotes the absence of malnutrition. It promotes recovery, and good food makes you happy. But not least, this is an extremely important part of not only the social community of the elderly but all of us. The Christian Democrats also propose state support to establish three geriatric centres in Sweden, which will be the basis for the continued research on older people's conditions and how we can do it even better to grow old in our fantastic Sweden. Madam President, I would like These were some of the things that the Christian Democrats see as crucial for the elderly to be able to live a good and active life based on their own conditions in the future.
i-71e745b581016022-126	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the government report on the elderly care of the future. It is a very large and wide area. We in the Liberals have not exercised this, but come back with our views on the whole area of exercise during the general exercise period. I wanted to highlight three things here that are behind the ill health problems that many years of people suffer. It is ageism, it is the feeling of not being needed and it is loneliness, which has been given more attention in recent times. I will begin with ageism, that is, the prejudiced view of year-long individuals who are one of the seven grounds for discrimination. The World Health Organization says that ageism is the most difficult of the grounds for discrimination to overcome, and this despite the fact that everyone is in danger of facing it. Everyone gets year-rich and year-rich. Other grounds of discrimination such as disability, sexual orientation and such things do not affect everyone, but ageism affects everyone, and it makes itself known in all sectors, not least in health care. I have mentioned earlier in Parliament the age limits we have for prescriptions and for interventions for disabled people, and not least what has also been mentioned here today, namely the lack of rehabilitation and the interest in restoring health in people who have come up in the years and experienced strokes or accidents of various kinds. WHO, the World Health Organization, is now having a four-year campaign in the world against ageing. It started in 2016 and will end in 2020. In Sweden we have not seen any of that campaign. I have not had the opportunity to ask the government how they have looked at it. The EU is currently campaigning against ageing, from older people's day of 1 October until 10 December, when the 70th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights is celebrated. Every week a part of ageism is addressed when it is linked to other grounds of discrimination such as disability and so on. There it has been noted that Sweden has a limit to the efforts made for people with disabilities who have passed their 65th anniversary. The next area I want to address is feeling needed. The World Health Organisation has highlighted the risk of ill-health that you run if you retire against your will or are excluded from other efforts that you want to make in society because you have lived for many years. Someone said after retiring, I've gone from being someone to being nobody. There's help to get. For pensioners' organisations, Amnesty and rows of non-profit organisations, you can seek and also feel needed. The third area is loneliness. The Christian Democrats have also highlighted it, and it is a problem that is ignored and about which there is no talk. Doctor Peter Strang has highlighted the risk of ill health such as heart attack, depression and so on for those who have suffered just loneliness. We politicians cannot conjure up social networks, but we can make it easier for people to come to meeting places. We can make it easier for nonprofit organizations to have conventions at a reasonable price. We can facilitate communication so that you can get from A to B, and we can facilitate by building shelters so that you can move to a place where you can have fellowship with other people, eat together and engage in various activities. These are three areas that I think are extremely important to highlight – of course in addition to nutritious food, pleasant meals, physical training, not smoking and showing respect for alcohol and so on. However, these three areas that I have mentioned today are far too little taken into account.
