i-b33826328b49234d-5	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me how I intend to ensure that public service cannot be accused of unduly influencing public opinion through false or biased news and elements. As can be seen from the answer to a written question on 7 February, the activities of Swedish Television are conducted independently in relation to both the state and other economic and political spheres of power in society. This is regulated in the multi-annual broadcasting permits decided by the Government according to the framework and direction established by the Riksdag. According to the broadcasting licence, the activities of the programme must be carried out objectively and impartially. Anyone who believes that Sweden's Television in a programme has breached this requirement can report it to Gra Swedish Radio and Television Agency for Press, Radio and Television. The Board subsequently examines whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the rules applicable to the broadcasts. The independence of public services is crucial to public confidence in the operation. As a minister, I cannot and should not comment on the content of the broadcasts or SVT's publicist decisions.
i-b33826328b49234d-8	Madam President, I would like First of all, I apologise for my inattentive behaviour at the beginning of this debate. Thank you for your answer, Minister for Democracy and Culture. It is, of course, difficult as a minister to discuss this issue, and I have great respect for that. It is difficult on a factual, legal and perhaps even personal basis. SVT recently had a feature where the minister was hailed as sharp by SVT's commentators and the opposition was described as a bad date. Of course, there are many things that make it worrying to discuss these issues in a serious and qualified way. Nevertheless, it is very important in an election year, where we see a great risk of us being infiltrated or influenced in different ways by, for example, foreign power, that confidence in public service is high. Now SVT itself has undertaken to specifically examine claims and fake news. Then it is of course important that Sweden's Television itself live up to the different requirements that exist in order not to be accused of themselves engaging in creating different types of false images of reality. One known example, mentioned in the interpellation, is when a recent debate was held between representatives from Staffanstorp, who are moderate government, and representatives from Malmö, who are governed by the Minister's own power constellation, and allowed Staffanstorp to take responsibility for what is happening in Malmö. Even though it is known that the facts are quite different from the beginning, it is chosen to present them in this way. It could, of course, be of concern to a Minister for Democracy that we have a public service that acts in this way, perhaps not if it had been an individual experience or event. But when people feel that they see a pattern in this, there is a risk that confidence will weaken, and a weakening of confidence in public service risks, as the Minister says, ultimately becoming a weakened confidence in democracy or at least an opening for the people who want our Swedish democracy badly. One can of course question all types of facts or elements of SVT where there is an experience that the basic grant is not really there. Madam President, I would like I have great respect for journalists who have a very difficult job. In a short time and perhaps without all the means that you would like to have at your disposal, sometimes for good reason and sometimes for worse reasons, you should try to find a course of events and a description. You should find things that are wrong and review them. Of course, it is difficult to do so. In Sweden, we can be grateful that we have skilled, talented journalists who in various ways pay attention to abuses, mismanagement and social problems. On the other hand, the structure of public service and the over-the-counter list that many people claim to experience and which gives rise to a fairly broad discussion in social media and so on for a Minister for Democracy could nevertheless appear to be a cause for concern. Madam President, I would like It becomes a little flat when the Minister does not want to participate in the discussion but strictly refers to formula. But the democratic mission is a little more difficult than that. I find it unfortunate that the Minister does not want to take this discussion.
i-b33826328b49234d-16	Madam President, I would like Through Niklas Wykman, the Moderates have submitted an interpellation in which he attacks the City of Malmö and public sees vices independence. It is not possible to interpret it in any other way when he calls for action by the Minister for Culture and Democracy, for her to reprimand public service. It's startling and worrying. We see very worrying tendencies in many countries around us where governments in different ways want to influence and in some cases also control the media. Poland, Russia and Hungary are some examples and Turkey is another example a little further away. This is, of course, a road that we should keep very far from. I would like to be made clear by Niklas Wykman if the Moderates really want the Minister for Culture and Democracy to take public service in the ear, if you think that is a reasonable way to go. It is, of course, possible to have a discussion about the media and how questions are reflected. There are many arenas to do so, but I can question whether the government should be held accountable in the first place. Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman also takes up another moderate favourite branch in his interpellation, which is to fuck up Malmö city. We who live in Malmö are used to it, whether it is the Chairman of the Board of Staffanstorp, in Vellinge or in other moderate-led municipalities further up in the country. Yes, too many Malmöers don't have a job. School results have gone up for years in a row but are still at some schools far too bad. There is an organised crime which needs to be combated with full force, a black economy which exploits people and which also means that serious entrepreneurs cannot compete on fair terms. There is also a Malmö exuberant of innovation, entrepreneurship and creativity. It is also the case that without Malmö moderate shop windows like Staffanstorp, Lomma and Vellinge would drop up to half of their tax revenues. There is a great dependence on Malmö and of course also Lund. But this humility is rarely seen from the moderate council chairmen of the crane municipalities. These are also often municipalities that for a long time have not taken the responsibility you could expect when it comes to welcoming new people to Sweden. We can also look at how the media reflect Malmö. It is rarely the more positive picture that has been raised, even though Malmö and Lund are the growth engines that exist in southwestern Skåne. Instead, media reporting, not only in public services but also in public services, is all too often focused on the problems that exist, which also dissipates the general picture. I hope that Niklas Wykman and the Moderates can stop blacking Malmö and instead try to solve the problems that exist.
i-b33826328b49234d-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for a very important and urgent interpellation, not least this in the beginning of an election year! All parties in the Swedish Parliament are, I believe, in complete agreement that we should have impartial and reliable state media. Whether you call it public service or state media, it is we in this House who are responsible for financing SVT, SR and UR through political decisions. It is also thanks to the political decisions that this activity exists. In the past, we in this House have tried to get answers from the Minister about what you do as a citizen if you are exposed to a web publication – a publication only on the web – on SVT. A few years ago we saw a assistant nurse alerting us about serious shortcomings in healthcare, deficiencies that are often highlighted today, not least in the morning newspapers in Stockholm. The assistant nurse was outed by SVT. It is very unpleasant when the state media suspect those who sound the alarm about shortcomings. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has replied to my colleague Niklas Wykman that if you feel wronged, you should report the state media for their lack of objectivity. It is now, as the Government knows, that if SVT outsources someone or does a web publishing, it is not covered by either the press code or the regular control body that exists. I think that we can discuss this very well in this House. I even think it is appropriate for us, as Members of Parliament, to discuss how we defend citizens against abuse in the media.
i-b33826328b49234d-30	The media crisis in Sweden, where the morning newspapers have fewer subscribers and receive less and less revenue, has strengthened the role of state media in Sweden. We have seen a journalist crisis, not least in my county of Gävleborg. I know that the Government has visited Mittmedia, and I'm sure she got confirmation that Mittmedia has removed the editorial office in Hofors and removed the journalist from Ockelbo. The number of journalists has been greatly reduced for economic reasons. The state media, however, according to a RUT report that I have produced, have more journalists in Gävleborg today than they had a few years ago. So I think Rasmus Ling is completely wrong. Of course, as Members of Parliament, we should ensure that we have well-functioning media in Sweden that all Swedes have confidence in. Of course, it should worry both the Minister and Rasmus Ling that we are seeing confidence in the state media slowly, slowly decline. It is not a dramatic case, but confidence in the state media is falling. It's a very serious thing. The accident at SVT's Agenda programme last Sunday, where a small part of a long commercial for a political party in Gothenburg was cut apart, should be of concern to everyone in this House. If confidence in the media declines, it will damage democracy in Sweden. I think we can very well discuss this in this House.
i-b33826328b49234d-34	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, Niklas Wykman and Rasmus Ling for your questions! These are extremely fundamental issues that we are absolutely going to discuss in this House and which I wish we discussed more often, more familiarly and forcefully. This question was basically the first I took on when I took office as a minister. I put it on my desk and set up a media investigation. Just as Lars Beckman describes, our media, not least the local newspapers, are crucial to our democracy. They broaden the public conversation. They highlight the reality of their various leadership columns, from right to left. They examine politicians, both local politicians and us national politicians. There are a number of reasons why we need to focus on media policy, not least on local newspapers but also on public services. However, I would like to emphasise that as an environmental party and Minister of State in the Swedish Government, I am not satisfied with public service. For me it is not enough for a strong democracy. We also need other media. Not least, as I have said several times, we need the local newspapers. But the entrance to this discussion was Niklas Wykman's question about how I, as a minister, should act when he believes that public service has violated the demands of objectivity and independence. It is precisely the objectivity and impartiality that underpin the broadcasting permits, in the framework that the Swedish Parliament has adopted for our public service companies. That is precisely why we, too, have decided together that we should have a review board that reviews public service activities. What has been highlighted and which I also really put my finger on when I appointed the Media investigation and, above all, when we worked out the directives on the broadcasting licence for public services that is currently in force, is the lack of tools to review what public services are doing online. This is exactly what Lars Beckman is talking about. The lack of such tools becomes absurd as more and more people take advantage of public service content online. It is therefore at the heart of the directives that members of our various parliamentary parties are currently working on. How should we ensure that we can monitor public service activities online? We can't have the order that we have. The whole media landscape has changed. Our consumption habits have changed, but we cannot follow up on what is happening online. I share the concerns and see it as a challenge that we have to put another system in place. It is now working on by our fellow party members in accordance with the directives that we have worked out. But this is therefore about the forthcoming directives, which will apply in 2020. The current directives, which were drafted during the period of the bourgeois government, are valid until 31 December 2019. This is what we have to deal with. When we relate to what public service regulations should have, people like me and the rest of us in here will stay very far away. We can only look at the other side of the Baltic Sea to see how bad things can go and how fast it can go. There it is even ministers who appoint and dismiss managers of public service companies. You recapture movies and change history. That is why I have no comment on individual publicist decisions. However, I welcome the Audit Board.
i-b33826328b49234d-43	Madam President, I would like The Minister exudes self-confidence. There's a lot of me, in the story of everything that's about to be good or should be good. A degree of humility could perhaps come about by pointing out that four years have passed since the minister was appointed, and there has obviously been some time. If these issues are so urgent and important, one can consider why it has taken so long. I do not really believe in the windy tone that Mrs Rasmus Ling, Member of the Green Party, strikes here in the speaker's chair with a lot of writings, strong outcomes and so on. In fact, I can only say that we will fully follow the invitation you are giving us. We will deal with Malmö's problems after the election. When the misrule that is now going on in Malmö gets fired by the voters and gets to resign, we will very quickly put an effective policy with Torbjörn Tegnhammar at the forefront. There will be a work line, there will be a stop to wrong contributions payments, there will be investments in the school, there will be investments in security, there will be more policemen, there will be fewer Malmöers forced to live in alienation and there will be fewer forced into the very negative and destructive violence s spirals that are now going on. So absolutely – we will take on the challenge that you have given us and make Malmö a much better city! When it comes to the outcome of wanting to regulate and regulate public services in detail, and so on, it is – sorry, Madam President – just ridiculous. It has nothing to do with the substance of the discussion. The question is how we protect ourselves against different kinds of fake news and how we, who are still the owners of public service – so let's put it – through the rules we make will ensure that we in Sweden protect and protect our democracy. That kind of argumentation at a very low level and nonsense is, unfortunately, an attack on the democratic dialogue that we are to have. It ascribes to its opponents and opponents opinions and opinions that they have never defended or never held. That's not how it's supposed to be. There is much for the Green Party to work with when it comes to the view of how to treat other people and democracy. It is important for democracy, the Government, that public services have a high level of confidence. We all make mistakes, but mistakes are made time and again: party names on people on the left fall away, and they are portrayed as ordinary citizens. Experts and researchers who have an opinion in the middle or a little to the right are presented as debaters, while debaters on the left are presented as experts. Moderately-led municipalities are allowed to dress shots for things that are wrong in social democraticly-governed municipalities. When mistakes are stacked on mistakes that are stacked on mistakes, there are many people who eventually believe that there is a pattern in the whole thing. When such a picture is established and it is believed that public service systematically favours a political view or at least a political direction, confidence in public service decreases. Then our collective resistance to what is fake news or various types of attacks on our electoral systems and our democratic system will be much weaker, and the whole thing will be much more serious. Then a wound is opened in democratic society. It is therefore important for a minister, a responsible minister, to have a thorough discussion on how to protect democracy and democratic dialogue. Madam President, I would like I am not sure that it is possible to simply back down from this discussion and say that this is left entirely to a review board. I think the Minister should take a slightly broader approach to this issue and think about how we should ensure that confidence is protected in the long term.
i-b33826328b49234d-50	Madam President, I would like It felt as if Mr Wykman, for someone who is calling for a lower tone in the debate, took from the toes of his speech. I think this is an interesting discussion we are having. However, I have not received a good answer to what was the purpose, and you do not explain what action it is you would like to see from the Government. You say that it is a gross attack on my part when I say that I find it worrying to see how our neighbours are doing when it comes to statements by the current governments and that I see concerns about this. Madam President, I would like What Lars Beckman expresses I cannot interpret in any other way than that he thinks that the Government should go in and review public service. I have to say that I find it very worrying. Having said that, it is clear that there are also elements on which we agree widely in this House, such as the fact that the local media have an incredibly important audit role and must be able to exercise this role with local politicians and at the regional level. With regard to the element that has prompted the interpellation, I think it is worth noting that SVT for itself has taken this very seriously. There was a special section in the News section where this was discussed. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say something about what Niklas Wykman says he wants to do for Malmö, although we hope that we will be preserved from this. During the time of the alliance government, the cost of supply support increased in almost all municipalities in Sweden, including Malmö. We were hit hard by it, and I very much hope that we will avoid it in the coming years.
i-b33826328b49234d-56	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the time is not enough to give all the examples that could be taken up just from the last six months or the year where SVT and SR consistently angles from a single political point of view. UR I don't listen to as much, but the few times I have done so I have managed to find examples even there. You happen to come to Gävle, and you happen to do a piece with the man on the street, who turns out to be a leading SSU representative. This could be followed by examples. It is clear that it should worry everyone in this House if the state media themselves undermine their own confidence. Why do so many go to strange websites instead of SVT? Why are there so many people looking for alternative media and, unfortunately, perhaps even collecting their information exclusively from them? It is a development that no one should want. In the case of these abuses – because it was a mere abuse that this assistant nurse suffered – it is because the state media did not test this type of publication either with the press ethics network or with the Radio and Television Audit Board. This is something that the government could have addressed considerably more quickly than waiting for the entire investigation. You could have acted there much more quickly. I am pleased that Niklas Wykman put this interpellation so that we can also discuss SVT's role in the upcoming election movement. It is incredibly important that SVT and Swedish Radio protect their own independence this election year and that they can cope with the difficult balance that it means being non-political an election year.
i-b33826328b49234d-60	Madam President, I would like One attitude that has paid off for me through life has been to try to listen to what I think my opponents want to say. I will not get caught up in what can be misinterpreted but really believe that there is an honest intention, a concern and a sense of why you ask questions or are in contrast to something that I have as an idea. What I hear when I listen to Niklas Wykman and Lars Beckman is a concern for our democracy. It is a concern that the conversation and our public awareness should not carry and a concern that forces that want to influence us with perhaps conscious disinformation should be given room and scope. There, of course, the public service broadcasters play an enormous role. Although their confidence is high today, I am pleased that there are concerns on which we can build. I wrote down what Niklas Wykman said: How are we to ensure that confidence is protected in the long term? More is needed, and there is a need for many discussions and discussions on this. We need a powerful and stable public service that has people's trust. We are already doing a great deal today, but we certainly need to do a lot more. If we can do it together—we are democrats and represent democratic parties here in our parliament—I think we have everything to gain from it. It will also equip us with forces from other countries that want to influence our country's development. We have a broadcasting permit, and we have frameworks that the Swedish Parliament has adopted. I have decided to respect that framework fully. This means that for almost four years I have been very careful when I have spoken about public service and really bit my tongue when I have almost been saying something that I think or feel. I do not want in any way to go within the limits which could call into question the publicist decisions of public service broadcasters and their independence. I have always welcomed scrutiny and criticism of myself and my party. I mean it has to be done. I stay very far from the public service companies. There are more than watertight shots, yes, there are as well as walls of watertight bulkheads between me and the public service companies and all the media but especially the public service companies' activities and publicism. We have the Audit Board, and there all people can report if they feel that the public service companies have not met the requirements of objectivity and impartiality. But we have challenges in that more and more of what public services do is transmitted online and that we consumers take part of it online. That is why it was absolutely central to me that the directives should emphasise this very point, and that is what the directives to the Public Service Committee are currently working on. They are about how public service – SVT, SR and UR – will work in this new media climate. How are we to follow that they are doing what they are supposed to do and that they are really managing their trust and all these funds that we give the public service companies for their operations? As I said, I welcome the discussion. I welcome all the follow-up and scrutiny, and I believe that there is something on which we democrats can build.
i-b33826328b49234d-69	Madam President, I would like Trust in public service is central to our democracy. We have already this year, the 2018 election year, seen how, for example, Social Democratic troll accounts have been revealed. It therefore states an identity that is not true and tries to communicate false information to citizens or otherwise influence them without revealing who they are. When even leading political parties in government are engaged in these things, it is easy to see how vulnerable democracy is. We know from the experience of other countries that countries around us or countries that may not want our democracy to interfere with and try to disseminate information and disseminate facts and news that do not correspond with reality. Madam President, I would like Against this, the Minister for Democracy could build a stronger defence, for example by taking inspiration from the economic side where you have a fiscal council. In such an equivalent, it would not only be what SVT itself and viewers notice that comes to review, but there would be a genuine and thorough review of the whole on an objective basis: Is there a distortion in the choice of subject and in the choice of how questions are shaped? And are there errors in how the facts are highlighted and discussed? This has nothing to do with the detailed management of the publicist mission. This is about the core of our democracy. How is information to be provided to citizens, and how is it to be ensured that it is correct and that other states or different forces that want our democracy badly do not speak up? When mistakes are piled up on mistakes in public service, people rightly ask themselves whether there is no systematicity in this – whether there is a twist and a subjectivity aimed at actually promoting a certain political direction. Once that suspicion has come to life, democracy has already lost some measure.
i-TTTVsXgS3qyrJd1WebvCjK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for the interpellation and for the exchanges of views! On the one hand, it is difficult and a little sad to have to be the defender of public service in this House where we have taken joint decisions on framework and broadcasting permits. On the other hand, I hear the words that we need a strong public service, which gives me hope. We need to ensure that trust increases and that people have confidence in what public services do, not least when it comes to our scrutiny here in this House and by the government. That is why I really want to encourage Niklas Wykman, Lars Beckman and Rasmus Ling to talk a lot with their parties. Right now, the P ublic Service Committee is fully working on developing the framework for public service from 2020. It is extremely important that these frameworks actually provide public service, that they create trust and conditions for an activity that will not be less important in the future, but that we really need in our country for the sake of our democracy.
i-b33826328b49234d-76	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me what measures I intend to take to reverse developments and reduce the administrative burden on teachers. Teachers are the key to raising school results. The government takes seriously the fact that the teaching profession for a long time lost its status and attractiveness. The Ministry Memorandum Time for teaching – teachers' work on written individual development plans from 2013 showed that teachers' tasks had increased over time. The increase included more tasks linked to documentation and monitoring and evaluation of students' knowledge development. According to the OECD study Talis from the same year, Swedish teachers spent more of their time on administrative tasks and less on teaching and skills development than teachers in other OECD countries. The reports showed an increase in teachers' administrative workload over many years. The survey carried out by the Federation of Teachers reports that many teachers feel that the amount of administrative tasks has continued to increase over the past five years. The government has since it took office had increased attractiveness for the teaching profession as one of its main priorities. Administration that takes time from the meeting between teachers and students is one of the challenges that needs to be addressed. Teachers have spent too much time administering and correcting the national tests. The government has therefore made the previously mandatory national tests in SO and NO for grade 6 volunteers for the principals to use. In the case of upper secondary school, the government has recently decided to reduce the number of compulsory examinations for students in higher education programmes. The Government also has in the National Tests Bill – fair, equal, digital(prop. 2017/ 18:14), on which the Parliament decided on 15 November, considered that the national tests should be digitised. Digitalization can reduce the time spent by teachers on the tests. The Government has also decided on a digitalisation strategy for the school system. Through digitalisation, tools and methods can be developed that facilitate administration as well as planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of teaching. At the same time, common solutions can reduce the risk of poor and time-consuming digital systems. The government has also said no to order reviews in primary schools – a measure that would have further contributed to the documentation requirements for teachers. In its final report Collection for School – National Strategy for Knowledge and Equivalence(SOU 2017:35) the 2015 School Commission makes the assessment that the principals should take into account the administrative burden on teachers and vice-chancellors and be restrictive in burdening them with their own goals, instructions and accounting requirements in addition to what is stated in national governance documents. There is therefore a need to examine what administrative tasks, in addition to those resulting from the national objectives, are assigned to teachers and the reasons for this, and to review the possibilities for reducing the amount of such tasks. This is now being done in the study Better school through more attractive school professors (U 2016:06) which, based on an analysis of the work situation and organisational factors, will propose measures to reduce the administrative work of teachers, vice-chancellors and preschool managers. The investigator will also identify and highlight good examples of how teachers' administrative burden can be reduced while, for example, contact with children's and pupils' guardians and parents can be implemented in an effective and trustful way. The mission shall be reported no later than 1 March of the current year. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government has also proposed state support for strengthening equivalence and knowledge development, in accordance with the School Commission's proposal. With a phase-in of three years, SEK 6 billion is proposed annually for the purpose. More resources will make it easier for teachers and improve opportunities for them to carry out their mission. When it comes to creating more time for preparation, follow-up and each student, it is of course important that about 20 000 more people, converted into full-time jobs, have been employed in the coal system since academic year 2014/ 15, including through the Government's efforts at, for example, more employees in preschool and primary schools. The government has thus taken and is taking several measures to reduce the administrative burden on teachers.
i-b33826328b49234d-90	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Education for his reply. There is one thing that goes through for this and some other answers that the Minister has delivered in this House. It is about the government, and not least the Minister for Education, entering the term of office with extremely high ambitions. But if you can be a little joking, it was just a thumb, in many of the areas. According to the Teachers' Association, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats have failed the election promise to reduce teachers' administration. As the Minister himself referred to, the administration of teachers has increased over the last five years. And that is an alarming development. I agree with Gustav Fridolin that the teachers are the key to successful teaching, and we will give them more time with the students. Unfortunately, the trend has gone in the opposite direction. The Government has made proposals at the Riksdag's table regarding the guarantee of action, which meant that the teachers' administration would increase. It is therefore gratifying that the government has taken on board and listened to the broad criticism that has been made of the proposal. Now the government is withdrawing the proposal for recasting, just as we have proposed. It is important that the government returns with a proposal that ensures that teachers have more time for the students. We also think that the government has gone the wrong way by believing that the administrative burden is being reduced by removing several national samples. There are other administrative burdens to be removed, such as results that do not always need to be collected. However, learning outcomes need to be collected to follow students' development. So there is still much the government can do, even if the time is short.
i-b33826328b49234d-96	Madam President, I would like The length of time we have is determined in that very large interview in September this year. I look forward to time remaining long. There is so much that needs to be done, just as Michael Svensson describes. When I listen to Michael Svensson, I understand that we agree on the description of the problem. Teachers must have time for teaching and for what creates quality in teaching. It is about time to prepare your lessons, for afterwork where you reflect on them, to sit down with your colleagues and share skills with each other, to develop in your profession and to take the special conversation with a student who needs it. You have to make sure the teachers get that time. There are two things we have to do to do that. One is to make sure that enough people work at school. If there are more teachers, if more people share the work, and there are more who can relieve teachers with certain tasks, this means that teachers can be teachers and have more time for each student. That is why it is important, as I point out in my interpellation response, that we have hired more people in Swedish schools and are moving on with it with the large government contribution that the School Commission's funding of 6 billion amounts to. The second is that we clean up the time thieves in teachers' everyday lives, what we simply call administrative workload. It's about three different parts there. The first is the national tests. Teachers have been asked: What do you experience as a great administrative burden? National tests will then be high on the list, and they will be placed at the top of the list of tasks for which the State is responsible. It is therefore strange that Michael Svensson says that we agree that something should be done, but when the government says what should be done, Michael Svensson does not want that to be done. We're gonna measure knowledge, and we are. But we have to decide when and how we do it. It is true that, by a broad agreement, we have volunteered the national tests in SO and NO in grade 6. And I think what Anna Ekström is now doing for high school is right. This reduces the number of national tests without reducing the quality of knowledge measurements. We are also digitising the national tests so that they can be carried out in a more administratively sensible way. The second part concerns aid. When one has seen that a student has needed extra support, it has all too often been the beginning of a bureaucratic journey, rather than an educational journey. There has been a lot of documentation about the student, rather than ensuring that the student has received the necessary support. For us, the guarantee of action is a proposal to reduce the administrative workload, over the entire primary school period, by ensuring that teachers already in primary school have the mandate to ensure that the support is in place. It is an opinion that we now share with the teachers' unions, which is the most important watchdog to ensure that we do not impose new administrative burdens. They also support a proposal for a read-write-count guarantee. Since the proposal has not been supported by a majority in Parliament, we will withdraw it and come back before the summer with a new proposal to give teachers that mandate, but which ensures that it does not lead to new documentation and new documentation requirements. The third and perhaps most important part of administrative workload is the many municipal requirements. Many teachers describe that they have to answer roughly the same questions to both the state and the municipality. The municipality has set its own goals alongside the state. And here's the extra burden. The School Commission therefore lands in the fact that this type of work must be cleared up. And that is why we commissioned Björn Åstrand to look at where there are good examples that can be disseminated and whether there is a need for additional regulations to clear additional burdens arising from municipal decisions or, where appropriate, decisions within free school groups.
i-b33826328b49234d-107	Madam President, I would like The government is trying to score points on the fact that there have been more employees in school. But what the government doesn't tell us is that it's basically an effect of the pupil litters having grown. Then it'll be natural. But teacher density has not changed during Fridolin's year as Minister of Education. I and Gustav Fridolin agree that it is important to have a central correction of tests and that they be digitised as soon as possible. But we do not want the national tests to be removed. We also propose a certificate of order, as the Minister of Education commented. I believe that a letter of order would lead to more pure subject ratings. It is human that teachers, when they grade, also consider how the student has behaved in the classroom. Therefore, a certificate would make it easier for many teachers. We want to introduce teachers' assistants. That could also be helpful. I have one last thought and question to Gustav Fridolin. Maybe it's a little different. I do not think that the Minister for Education dares to give an opinion on this issue, because it is really a trade union issue. I realize that, too, and I've stuck my chin out myself sometimes. There are two types of agreements in the school area: holiday service and holiday service. It is not for nothing that many free schools have used holiday services. Municipal schools have also employed many first teachers on holiday services. Teachers with holiday services spend much more time with their students. Does the Minister of Education have any opinion on this? If so, does he dare to speak out on it?
i-b33826328b49234d-114	Madam President, I would like I understand that Michael Svensson uses words that dare to speak, because it has a little more effect in the interpellation debate. If I were to make a statement on this, however, I would be very much in breach of the division of responsibilities that exists, namely that it is the trade unions and employers who are making arrangements about wages and working conditions and that we are the ones who are creating the conditions for it. Precisely this type of negotiation is under way, and whatever I might say it would be used quickly in those discussions, certainly both locally and centrally. That would probably not be good for anyone. I simply have to take the opportunity, according to the order in which we have it. Michael Svensson also indicated that he expected it. With regard to the other two points raised by Michael Svensson, I would like to say that I do not want to score points on the fact that we have hired more people. It is a priority we make when we invest state funds in order to be able to employ phle r in school. Of the 20,000 more who have been hired, around 4,000 have been employed only in primary school with the new primary school funds. They are therefore employed through State resources. One should know that these are priorities that contrast with the priorities of the previous government. During the previous government period, nearly 10,000 employees were cut out of school. There are more than what reduced litters motivated. The 20,000 who have been employed this year are more than what increased litters justify. The teacher density has decreased slightly despite the fact that there are more students than ever in Swedish schools. Child groups in preschool have declined since 1992 despite the fact that there are more children in preschool than ever before. We've broken up with growing child groups in Fritis even though there are more children in Fritis than ever. These are political priorities. I think we need to move on there and invest a lot more in school. I have therefore put forward the School Commission's proposal, which has now been voted through in Parliament, of EUR 6 billion in order for it to become a reality. I believe that we should be able to reach political agreement on this. It is a clear national enhancement of resources to schools that creates a clearer division of responsibilities between the state and local levels in the field of school funding. Both I and Michael Svensson raised this point with order reviews. The reason I am raising it in this context is that this issue has been raised by various parties and other debaters. What that would mean in practice is that teachers should write notes home, because according to the proposal it should be in addition to the grade documents. So there should be something special and not included in the grades. The teachers are then allowed to write notes home to all students outside the grades. This also applies to those students who are doing very well at school with whom you never have any discussion about order problems. I find it difficult to see that this would be something other than just an increase in the administrative workload. I also find it hard to see, for those students with whom you really have order problems, how a note at the end of the semester would help. There must be continuous discussions throughout the semester and above all discussions with the guardian – I pointed out in my interpellation response that the teacher may need support and relief in that work – which can make a difference. It is unlikely that the note that is taken home at the end of the Christmas season and that risks being forgotten three weeks later when the semester starts again, and even less so at the end of the academic year.
i-b33826328b49234d-124	Madam President, I would like I have nothing else to add. I think we agree with a great deal that the burden should be reduced. Then I also realise that it lies largely on the municipalities. There we all in the different parties must try to take a strong stand. But I hope that Gustav Fridolin as Minister of Education will be able to do a little more in the more than six months left.
i-b33826328b49234d-126	Madam President, I would like There's time to do a lot more. See you in the debate, Michael Svensson!
i-b33826328b49234d-127	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what measures I intend to take to develop a system of state subsidies that does not risk affecting school development in the wrong direction. It is important that the division of responsibilities is clear in welfare. The situation in the school system is currently such that there is a need for targeted state subsidies. The increase in the number of targeted grants has been gradual since the late 1990s. Targeted state subsidies are a symptom of the unclear chain of governance identified by the OECD, among others. Therefore, the Government appointed the 2015 School Commission, which through proposals for a clearer chain of governance can help to reduce the long-term needs of the many targeted state subsidies currently in place in this area. In its final report, the School Commission has proposed, among other things, how the need for targeted state subsidies can be reduced in the long term. The Commission's proposal is now being prepared within the Government Office. In accordance with the School Commission's proposal, the Government proposes in the 2018 Budget Bill a substantial strengthening of the state funding of the school. The state support for improved equivalence and knowledge development should be allocated so that resources are weighted according to the pupils' socio-economic background, which is also in line with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. The Swedish National Audit Office also proposes continued targeted support for school development to ensure that the funds go to school operations. The government's ongoing work to adapt state subsidies so that they do not disadvantage principals with small administrative and financial resources or hamper long-term planning and school development is urgent. The National Board of Education is actively working to simplify the management of state grants for school leaders, including by developing a comprehensive digital management of grants. In order to broaden state grants and reduce administration in the application process, the Government has decided on changes to a number of initiatives in the field of schools, and I would like to mention a few examples here. The further education within the Teacher Lift II towards a special teacher degree has been extended to all specialisations. In addition, as regards the grant for more employees in the pre-school and primary schools, an opportunity has been introduced for principals to apply for a grant in order to maintain the increased number of annual workers for which the principal has previously received a grant. The Government has also designed initiatives in such a way that state grants are not directed to the principals but to the National Agency for Education, which, after dialogue with the principals, may decide to invest in efforts according to the specific conditions and needs of the school heads. Examples of this are Collaboration for best school and Mission to implement efforts to strengthen the quality of education for newly arrived children and students. The Government has also set up an investigation to review the state authorities in the school system, including the division of responsibilities and the organisation of the authorities in the school sector, with a view to creating a more appropriate government structure that can thus contribute to a better school. As part of the government's improved governance of the school system, a review of targeted state subsidies is also needed. Work to achieve a more strategic and effective use of the targeted state grants to the school has begun within the Government Office. The Swedish National Audit Office's report can contribute with increased knowledge of the system of targeted state grants and thus serve as a basis for this work. During the spring, the Government will send a letter to the Riksdag examining the government's assessments in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review report on targeted state grants to the school.
i-b33826328b49234d-134	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. Targeted state grants are a way for us on a national level to manage the school in detail. Early in this term of office – and even before the elections – the Minister for Education made it clear that the Government's ambition was to reduce targeted state subsidies. As legitimate as each state grant is, the overall picture and more evaluations show that it is not designed to effectively target resources to the school. They fail and do not end up in the schools that need them the most and not the principals where the needs are greatest. Today, in many municipalities, there are several employees who only apply for and report state grants on a full-time basis. This is an opportunity if these are a little larger municipalities. One of my favourite Nordanstig is the municipality of Nordanstig. It was one of my best visits during this term of office. That visit opened my eyes to what it could be like for a small municipality. There are two employees in the entire school administration. It is completely impossible for them to keep track of all the contributions that exist, not to mention managing all the administration that comes with reporting and more. Collaboration for the best school is similar to our proposal for a knowledge contract. Our view is that much more should be directed towards targeted state subsidies for such an effort. It will then be targeted state grants that really go in and look at the needs of the individual school and tailor the support in terms of both resources and how the resources are to be used. I cannot understand why the government has made no effort to change some of the targeted state subsidies that exist and to bring them into Collaboration for the best school. Madam President, I would like When I was active at SKL and continue to be critical of the targeted state grants, it is precisely because it takes so much resources to apply for and report state grants. SKL also has support in many reviews that show that the system does not work. As I have understood the Minister for Education, there has been a stated ambition – not least 1 229 days ago when the Minister for Education took office – to reduce contributions. But there have been many more of them. We were on a study visit to the Swedish National Agency for Education last week. It confirms the view that state subsidies have increased rapidly, more than they did during the alliance period. In 2014, the National Agency for Education handled 41 grants and now they are up to 72. According to the Parliamentary Investigation Service, the number of decisions on state grants has increased from 12,000 to 16,000 during the same period. These are mere figures, but behind each decision there are applications that may have had to be supplemented or rereported. This means that a lot of time is spent in a municipality to apply for state grants, rereport and supplement applications. It is time to spend on school development. It is resources that should be spent on more teachers, special educators and other things in school. I wonder what happened to the government's ambition. Nothing has happened during this parliamentary term in terms of reducing state subsidies. They've increased.
i-b33826328b49234d-144	Madam President, I would like I broadly agree with Maria Stockhaus's description of the problem. The targeted state grants have basically doubled with each new government since the late 1990s, not in content– we have invested various amounts of money in school – but in numbers, and that is what affects administration. It is even more frustrating if the content is small but the number is large, so that you have to apply for many different grants to get some money. The targeted state subsidies have also increased during our period. When talking about figures on the number of state subsidies, however, you should know – only so that you have it with you when you make an assessment – that there is a great risk that, for example, Collaboration for the best school suddenly counts as a state grant, even if it is managed in a completely different way and not fundamentally increases the administration of the principals but rather the support for the principals. One should also know that, for example, the major reforms and changes made to bring much more adult education into place around the country, which we hope everyone will welcome, is included. So it looks a little different when you make these comparisons. But yes, our effort is to reduce state subsidies. To think big and think ahead, I see in front of me a larger state contribution that is clearly socio-economically weighted and gives more to those who need the most. There is now the School Commission's state subsidy at its core, and we will be able to transfer less targeted state subsidies to it. There will still be money for the school, but with more local action. Then, as Maria Stockhaus says, collaboration is needed for the best school. With a regional and state structure you will be able to work at many more than the 200 schools we have agreements with today. In addition, funds will be added. We have greatly increased the funds that go out in this way. It is a whole change in how the state works with the school. There may also need to be a number of smaller state subsidies to promote different types of innovation in the system. You don't think that everyone should apply, but some should go ahead and try different types of ideas and systems. That's a good way down there. It is a question of reversing a development that has been going on since the late 1990s, but that is what we are looking at. A large number of targeted state grants risk hampering the possibility of making local adjustments to activities based on agreed priorities. Looking ahead, the well-being and development of welfare require municipalities to focus on core business and not get stuck in red tape. That is why we want to support and facilitate such efficiency. The challenges are different in different municipalities. That is why the large state subsidy that we make in the School Commission gives such freedom. In order to improve the government's governance of the school, the government intends to present a new structure for targeted state grants in the field of education. Our goal is to do so before the summer. Now we have the School Commission's state grant in essence. We can use it to reduce the number of state subsidies. It is a significant reduction which is the aim of the review that I described and which is now under way in the Government Office. The scope for local adaptation of targeted initiatives needs to be increased, and it should also be stressed that the basis is obviously general state subsidies. The government has made the largest increase in general state grants since the 1990s.
i-b33826328b49234d-151	Madam President, I would like I have also been at the other end of the day and have been the recipients of targeted state subsidies, and I have discussed them with many municipal colleagues. I will mention a major problem with all these targeted state subsidies. If you as a municipality believe that a certain state grant does not fit in with what you see as your challenges and choose not to apply for that state grant, there are nice small local newspapers – who will of course review what we do – who quite often question why you have not applied for the state money. Even if you have good reasons, it is difficult to justify why you do not receive state funds, although it may be that the conditions mean that what you focus on in the municipality would fail. This government had a great deal of ambition to reduce state subsidies, but most of it was put in the School Commission. One problem with it, however, is that its proposal came to the Riksdag in selected parts on different occasions. There was not a package, which was the idea. Another problem is that there is a great deal that one could have done something about during this term of office but that nothing has been done about; one simply refers to the School Commission. I think targeted state subsidies are an important issue of this kind. It could have made a big difference by making a transfer from the targeted state grants to Collaboration for the best school. We have a major problem with small schools and small municipalities that do not have the resources simply not having the power to keep track of and apply for all these grants. And when you have applied for a grant, it is not uncommon for the Swedish National Agency for Education to return and say that you have to complete the application. You should also report back, and sometimes you run the risk of being liable for repayment. In his interpellation response, the Minister for Education says that the government has an ongoing effort to adapt state subsidies so that they do not disadvantage principals with small administrative and financial resources or hamper long-term planning and school development, and that this is a matter of urgency. But what exactly has happened in practical terms? How have the municipalities noticed that this is an urgent matter for the government?
i-b33826328b49234d-155	Madam President, I would like The municipalities have noticed this in that we have reduced the administration in several state grants and combined a number of state grants. As I described in my interpellation response, work is ongoing at the Swedish National Agency for Education to make this easier to use for municipalities. The reason why we are introducing state subsidies is because we see activities that really need to be strengthened in school. Nevertheless, I come back to the fact that there was a cut-off of employees under the previous government. We needed to provide state funds and be sure that they would lead to more employees being employed at school. It is good that more people have been hired than the increased litters themselves justify. The fact that there will be more employees in primary school and that we will have smaller groups of children in preschool is important. State resources have contributed to this. Teacher salaries are another important issue. In order to increase attractiveness, the salaries of teachers must increase more than those of other professions, and that has been the background to one of the state subsidies that we are now discussing in general. Many of these state subsidies are now fundamentally agreed. Then it's about how we build a better system. Collaboration for the best school is really the biggest change in the state's relationship with the municipalities since the establishment of the School Inspectorate. Our government has implemented this change on the basis of a proposal that the Environmental Party worked together with the Swedish School Leaders' Association, and I appreciate that it is so appreciated by Maria Stockhaus and the Moderates. I really believe that this is a very good change in how the state works with municipalities and independent school development heads at individual schools. I can assure you that we have provided as much money as we have been able to use during the construction phase. It is a completely new task for the state – to be out there doing analyses on individual schools of what efforts can make a difference there. Madam President, I would like I described in my previous interpellation response what I see before me: that there is a larger state contribution that is clearly socio-economically weighted, so that it goes more to those who need the most. We do the same thing from the state that we expect every municipality to do within its municipality and that today we have legal requirements to do. It is a collaboration where we work together with the schools that have the toughest conditions. Contracts may also be made for increased resources to be allocated to them. In addition, state grants that are more about strengthening innovation. This means a sharp reduction in the total number of state subsidies. Then Maria Stockhaus asks: But why is not all this done now? Why have you not already torn up the whole increase in state subsidies that has taken place since the late 1990s? The reason is simply that this system has become a kind of pickpin. If you run into something, something else is at risk of falling. Municipalities and independent principals are today dependent on different types of targeted state grants, so this is a change that must take place together with SKL and the principals. We need to know in good time which systems will be changed and how they will be changed, so that we can prepare for the change. It is this type of development that we are now in. We see before us that we can present such a timetable before the summer. But I can say that the interpellants would not have been happy with me in the Riksdag if I suddenly demolished some state grants that today are heavily dependent on the municipalities X, Y and Z and thus completely changed the conditions for their ongoing school development work. No, it is important to do this in such a way that the municipalities have the opportunity to prepare themselves. For me, it is also of course important that the total resources for school continue to increase. We must not end up in a situation where a reduction in state subsidies means that there will be less resources for the school.
i-b33826328b49234d-162	Madam President, I would like I think this is a very important issue when it comes to how to run the school, and this applies both at municipal and national level. Let's stand here and talk about more money for school. We have a new Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education who at least I have very great respect for and who started by saying: The school does not need more money. You need to use the money you already have in a wiser way. That's something for all of us to take with us and think about. My experience is also that if you step in from a political point of view and constantly solve all problems with external money and various forms of programmes and projects, or whatever it is, the profession does not take responsibility and does not dig where it stands. It is also something that I think it is important to have with you when discussing targeted state subsidies. It is about those who actually work in school taking responsibility for the development of their own school and do not feel that they are dependent on someone else to get there and solve the problems. But we have an interesting problem ahead of us. There is now another state grant: the large 6-billion-dollar state grant from the School Commission. SKL has already been quite critical of the construction of the state grant. It is a new state subsidy, which will also require quite a lot of administration. The grant has been conditional on cuts not being made in education and pupil health. It sounds great, but the problem is that it clashes with reality out in the schools. For example, a school may have invested additional resources in managing a student with extensive support needs. When that student quits school, you won't have to put those resources on it. Then it may look like you're pulling down, and then you'll be repaying. It can be the same if a major training effort has been made in a year, which is a base year, and then it is reduced because it has been completed. Then you no longer spend those resources on this, and then it can be perceived as pulling back. This is something that SKL has lifted. We are therefore in danger of receiving another targeted state grant that will require a lot of administration and reporting back to the municipalities.
i-b33826328b49234d-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for raising the question! I would be happy to come back to discuss this more. However, I would like what I am saying to be reflected on. The fact that we are now receiving the School Commission's large state subsidies is a prerequisite, and an opportunity, for us to reduce the number of state subsidies. The fact that there is a large contribution with some clear counter-claims makes it possible to transfer other small pots to that particular grant, which increases the local opportunity for responsibility and own priorities. Then, rather than having a variety of state grants, the state should be working at the schools where we know that external support and joint efforts are needed to boost development, through programmes such as Collaboration for the best school. The school commission's state subsidy, which is now being introduced, makes it possible for us to go that way and reduce the number of state subsidies without reducing the money for the school. I think it is a very reasonable counter-requirement that, when you receive large funds, you do not cut back on own resources. The school commission's state grant is designed exactly that way by profession and research. It will give the school stronger protection against cuts in local and national crises, so that we do not experience what happened during the financial crisis and during the 9 0th century crisis. When you have to cut back at school, the differences between the municipalities most affected and other municipalities increase further inequality in the system. And at the other end, it becomes much more expensive when children leave school without having the time they need with their teachers. School cuts are always expensive at the other end. That is why we are making this counterclaim. I have listened to SKL in the preparation and made sure that there is a flexibility to be able to handle the natural variations that occur over years. But the basic requirement is: When you receive money, you should not make your own cuts in school – it should not go to any other affairs within the municipality or profit in a free school. This is a sensible basic requirement.
i-b33826328b49234d-172	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to put a three-term system in place and whether I intend to take any other measures to increase the teaching time in Swedish comprehensive school. In motion 2015/ 16:1248 Elisabeth Svantesson, the Moderates, proposed that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that the Riksdag agrees with the proposal to investigate the pros and cons of introducing a three-term system in primary school. Parliament rejected this motion (bet. 2015/ 16:UbU12, rskr. 2015/ 16:168). I do not make a different assessment today than that Parliament did at the time. On the other hand, the Government has taken and intends to take further measures to secure and extend the students' teaching time within the current academic year. In its review of the Swedish school, the OECD pointed out that the teaching time in comprehensive school is lower than the average in OECD (Improving Schools in Sweden: An OECD Perspective, 2015a). According to the comprehensive school hour plan, the total teaching time is at least 6,890 hours for each pupil. Parliament has decided in accordance with the proposals in the Government proposal School start at the age of six (prop. 2017/ 18:9). This means that the preschool class will be compulsory from autumn 2018. Since pre-school education covers at least 525 hours in a school year, we have increased the number of teaching hours for compulsory school forms, and with that we are approaching the OECD average, which is relevant for the international comparisons. The teaching time in the subject of mathematics was increased in 2013 and 2016 by a total of 225 hours. In the memorandum A staged hour plan in comprehensive school and related matters (U2016/ 03475/ S) we have also proposed that the number of teaching hours in mathematics should be increased by an additional 105 hours in grades 7 to 9 from 1 July 2019. Within the Government Office, work is under way on such an extension. The Government also intends to make an amendment to the school regulation, which means that teaching time in sports and health in comprehensive schools will be increased by 100 hours, also from autumn 2019. These hours are redistributed from the student's choice, as there are major shortcomings in the school's handling of the student's choice and when a large majority of principals and principals expressed the wish that the teaching time for the student's choice should be reduced. Evaluations show that many students do not receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. The school commission, like the government, considers that a stadium-split hour plan needs to be introduced to ensure that all pupils receive the teaching time to which they are entitled and thus contribute to a more equal school (Collection for School – National Strategy for Knowledge and Equivalence[ SOU 2017:35]). The government has decided on a bill, A stadium divided hour plan in comprehensive school and related issues (prop. 2016/ 17:143), and the Riksdag has decided in accordance with the bill. The new provisions will enter into force on 1 July this year. The School Commission rightly points out that there is evidence that more teacher-led teaching time produces positive educational results. In the Commission's view, this applies in particular to subjects where there is limited access to or access to parental support on their own. The Swedish school will equalise socio-economic differences and give all people the opportunity to develop to their full potential. Giving students the opportunity to help with homework and other school work outside regular teaching hours is an important step towards greater equality. In order to stimulate more principals to offer such help with homework or other school work, in 2016, the Government strengthened the initiative with a state grant for homework aid to promote the opportunity for students to receive support with homework or other school work outside the regular teaching period. Some of these funds may also be used for non-profit associations. Schools' interest in offering homework help is high and increasing. In 2017, the National Board of Education paid out a total of SEK 363 million in grants to schools that provide homework assistance. The National Agency for Education also paid out SEK 20 million to non-profit organizations offering homework help. The initiative today enables homework help to a total of 460,000 students. In accordance with the Government's proposal, Parliament also has an obligation to offer a school of praise (prop. 2016/ 17:156) decided on an obligation for principals to offer holiday school to certain pupils in comprehensive school grades 8 and 9. The introduction of such an obligation creates a higher degree of equality and ensures that those students who need it are offered the opportunity for more education. As part of the work to strengthen the results of newly arrived pupils, a pilot project with increased teaching time in Swedish or Swedish as a second language for newly arrived pupils in comprehensive school has been ongoing since 2013. The experimental activities have been extended, and the participants will also be able to receive grants in 2018. These are some measures that the government has taken and intends to take to secure and extend students' teaching time. Teaching time is important, but research indicates that the teacher's teaching skills are the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. Here is the time for preparation of crucial importance. That is why, once again, it is important that around 20 000 more people – I repeat that it is calculated as full-time jobs – have been employed in the school system since the academic year 2014/ 15, including through the government's efforts at, for example, more employees in the preschool and primary schools.
i-b33826328b49234d-178	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. In our previous interpellation debate, I perceived that the government and the Minister for Education had high ambitions. However, I have not seen such ambitions here. More teaching time means a lot, just as Gustav Fridolin talked about. My three questions today are partly linked: reducing the administrative burden, more teaching time and order, which we shall return to. Of course, it is extremely important that students spend many hours with a skilled educator who has great ability to capture the students' interest and transfer knowledge and skills. Sweden is quite far behind when it comes to teaching time. Compared to students in other countries, our pupils lose almost a full year in comprehensive school. The government has from day one opposed, we believe, to make necessary investments in more time between teachers and students. During the parliamentary term, the government opposed the majority in parliament who thought that the teaching time in math and sport should be increased. It is good that the government is now rethinking and, if there is time, will introduce this. I think the government lacks the high ambitions for school. We talked earlier about the national tests that are being phased out, which impairs the ability to follow the students' knowledge development. In addition, administration has increased, which gives less time for contact between students and teachers, and the order problems are still very large. The government is not prepared to invest in increasing primary education by one hour per day, as we have proposed. Nor is it prepared to examine unconditionally whether a three-term system could lead to higher knowledge outcomes. Here I'm a little curious. I'd be very interested to hear the minister of education's reason he doesn't believe it. You don't even want to investigate. What disadvantages does the Minister of Education see with a three-term system? I can list what I think are many advantages, not least when it comes to social problems with many students who are alone throughout the long summer vacation. This could also be addressed in a three-term system. We also have problems with high school, which long ago removed the link between the number of points and the number of hours, which has led to the fact that most students in high school today do not get the teaching time they are entitled to. The Minister for Education was also somewhat concerned with socio-economic differences, and these, too, could of course be evened out if we had more time for teaching. In my next interpellation we return to order, something that I also think would mean a lot. I think it is commendable that the Minister should bring up schooling and homework. These are initiatives that we support and think are very good. Andreas Schleicher said when he was here a few years ago-- he's been here many times-- that if you have a crown over, then put it not on smaller classes but on the teachers. I think it is extremely important that we give our students more teaching time.
i-b33826328b49234d-191	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a comment to make: I think it is important to be careful in these international comparisons, which are constantly coming back in terms of teaching time. It should be remembered that many of the countries with which we compare ourselves have a previous formal school start than we in Sweden. That is why it will also look a little different now that we are introducing a compulsory preschool class. For most students, however, it will continue to be exactly the same number of hours, and then it is perhaps rather the Swedish school system and how it works that we should discuss and not compare with other countries. It can also be noted that there are countries that have fewer teaching hours than Sweden has but that have higher results, such as Finland. The international comparisons are thus a little lame as an argument, but apart from the stripe marking, the evidence we have says that more time with a good teacher who has time to prepare high quality teaching gives higher results. That's awfully good; what we do in school makes a difference. What has the government done, and what do we do? The first is that we have increased the total number of hours by increasing the number of math hours in middle school by 105. We move on and increase the number of hours in mathematics and the subject of sport and health by 100 hours each from 2019. These hours we redistribute from the student's choice, which today works very badly and has poor evaluation out there in schools. So there is the possibility of such a redistribution without increasing the total number of hours. The second thing we do, which does not give big headlines but which plays a very big role, is that we secure the number of hours you get. The decision taken by the Riksdag, at the government's initiative, that we should have an hourly schedule is perhaps the largest actual increase in the number of hours that students receive for a long time, because our evaluations show that the students have not received the number of hours to which they are formally entitled. Now we secure the number of hours through a staged hour plan where we can follow up much more clearly if you have received the number you are entitled to, which probably gives most students more hours than before. The third is that we invest in teaching alongside the schedule, i.e. that type of teaching where you work a little more specifically with a student's problems to find other solutions and try to manage elements that the student has had difficulties with, which may require a different group composition than just more of the same type of lessons that you have had difficulty solving this in the past. We do this through state grants for homework aid and legislation on school holidays. There is a reason why the school has such good results, and that is that you can work with smaller groups and with those students who need it the most. I got a specific question about three-term systems. In my interpellation response, I am satisfied to note that Michael Svensson was unable to convince his committee of the excellence of conducting such an investigation on the basis of a motion that existed, and the government makes no other assessment than the Riksdag. However, I absolutely do not oppose looking at other types of forward distributions than we have traditionally had in Sweden. I usually say to municipal representatives who raise the issue that it would be interesting to see municipalities trying to allocate time differently from what is usual at school today. The government has the possibility to grant exceptions to the administrative rules of the School Act for this type of attempt. The question of three-term systems could therefore be examined by means of such initiatives. Finally, Madam President, the question is what makes us skilful. Well, it is that we have time for our task, that we have to prepare ourselves so that we can specify what we want to do. Of course there is a conflict of interests here. If you simply increase the number of hours with the same teacher, they risk having less opportunity for high quality teaching.
i-b33826328b49234d-202	Madam President, I would like There is great praise in what the Minister for Education says and a great deal on which we agree. When it came to compulsory preschool, we had slightly different views. We believe that this is a change mainly for about 31⁄2% of the six-year-olds. Instead, the change we had wanted to make would have meant a change for 100 per cent of the six-year-olds as we wanted it to be the new grade 1 in comprehensive school. That would give you four years to meet the requirements for which you now have three years. There would have been some changes even with support measures and assessment. It is partly a mathematical abrovinc you do when we now count the number of hours, but I also realize that with the help of statistics you can produce largely what you want. Nevertheless, I think that in an interpellation debate like this, or perhaps afterwards, we could take the turns a little bit. The Minister for Education himself has been a teacher, and then it could be interesting if the Minister perhaps wanted to speculate or philosophize if there are any advantages and disadvantages of three-term systems, based on some different areas. As far as the student's choice is concerned, I also think it is a good thing that we are strengthening up so that there is more of other teaching instead of this system that has not worked. In my municipality, Falkenberg, a two-teacher system is now being introduced, which I think is excellent for more teaching time. It is, of course, as it is, as we come back to in the next question, that we have bad teachers and poor teaching time, it is usually the weak students who lose the most. We have seen this for too many years. I mentioned earlier high school about the number of hours not corresponding to the course's points, but that's even worse than that because the often bad economy in many municipalities means that there are very few substitutes. Students are therefore often allowed to sit without teachers, go home or have a hole hour. I think we could remedy this.
i-b33826328b49234d-207	Madam President, I would like The change in the preschool class is a change for all students. This is the biggest change for those students who today do not go to an organized school at the age of six. Of course, for the 3 percent of students, it will be a big change that you now become part of the preschool class with the equal start into school as it means. The compulsory nature of preschool classes also implies a different status. We have made major changes where the preschool class today has its own sections in the curriculum. If we get in place a reading-write-count guarantee, it significantly strengthens the right to support in the preschool class. The work of reading, writing and counting is even clearer in the preschool class. It's a change for everyone. What I would like to point out above all is that for the number of hours this will play a major role in international comparisons but not a huge role for students. It would be equal if it were part of elementary school. Here one should be careful not to use only international comparisons as arguments in the discussion and instead evaluate the Swedish school system based on our own strengths and weaknesses. I concluded the interpellation response by asking what makes teachers skilled. It's a lot about the preparation time – the one you have yourself, the one you have with colleagues, the one where you share technology, the one where you can reflect on the teaching to develop, the one you have with a student, for example in the corridor during a conversation with a student, and the one you have to build the relationships that make it easier to exercise leadership in the classroom. I see a risk of just focusing on expanding the number of hours. The lack of teachers that has been built up in Sweden for a long time means that the same teacher should teach more without actually getting anything but less time to prepare those lessons. It risks leading to more stress, more teachers feel inadequate and the quality of teaching is affected. More teaching has an effect, but it must be more teaching in such a way that teachers have the opportunity to create quality in teaching. That's a lot of my point. Michael Svensson specifically asked about the three-term system, and I will admit that I think it is an interesting and important issue. I do not think anyone would say that if we had built up the Swedish school system today, the time would have shifted as it is. At least it wouldn't have been a potato break. As holidays are now based on how the work was organized when Sweden was mainly an agrarian society when you largely lived from agriculture and needed the times that existed in the holidays. This is no longer the case for the vast majority of families. Looking at what changes can be made is quite natural. Perhaps we should beware that any changes of this kind, which still involve major changes in schooling, will come from above through a swift initiative from us. Instead, let us look at whether there are principals who have organized, or want to try to organize, school time in a different way and, if so, use the spaces provided by the law to make local attempts. Looking back on the most successful reforms in Swedish school history, we can see that they have been done exactly that way. Some have gone ahead, and the shortcomings have been seen, correcting them on the basis of newly purchased experiences, rather than quickly pushing through a major change for everyone. It is reasonable if we are to change the structure of the semester as it has existed in Sweden since the time of the folk school.
i-b33826328b49234d-216	Madam President, I would like I agree 100% with Gustav Fridolin about teaching time. It's not just teaching time that matters. It's not about money either. We know that Sweden invests most per pupil today by the OECD countries. On the other hand, the skill of the teacher is extremely important. An underperforming or poor teacher who teaches 15 or 30 students does not matter much – more than possibly 15 more pupils receive poor teaching. We know that for 30 years various governments have contributed to a decline in the status of teachers. As a result, it has become less interesting to become a teacher. It is not just a pay issue, it is also an administrative burden and freedom of the profession. In a really good school system, students should be taken from the best and smartest third of society. Twenty years ago, 10 to 12 applicants per place went to teacher training. Today we know that this is not the case. I fully agree with these ideas. It is not just a question of further adjusting teacher training, it is a question of achieving a good increase in ambition and further training of existing teachers today. Furthermore, we must make the municipalities realise that the principals are extremely important in helping and supporting their teachers.
i-b33826328b49234d-219	Madam President, I would like No, Sweden does not invest most per student in the OECD. Sweden is about the OECD average in investment per pupil in primary school. Then you should know that Sweden invests more in things than education and pupil health than other countries. If we look at the resources for teaching and student health, Sweden is actually below the average. If the government's priorities are maintained, and if we add the SEK 6 billion to education and pupil health, then Sweden will be on average in the OECD by 2020 on how much resources are given to the school. Why am I saying this? Because resources are important. Of course, they are not the only important thing, but the most important thing is how we use the resources available. But much of what can be done to improve the quality of teaching to strengthen school is actually costing. It's about more time with students, training, working with colleagues, relief and teaching assistants. This requires resources, and they are important. I am one of those who strongly argue that the large cuts that took place at school, especially during the 1990s crisis, which also came back during the financial crisis, have affected the results. That is why it is important to invest more in school together. I would also like to put on record that I am somewhat opposed to the conceptual apparatus, that we are talking about bad and skilled teachers. Rather, I think we need to discuss what makes me skilled, that I get to be a teacher in the way that I once wanted, what I was preparing for. Stress is a very big enemy. The fact that I don't have time to work with my colleagues is a great enemy. Running from one lesson to another is a great enemy. This is where the conflict between teaching time and the teacher's ability to do a good job arises. I'm worried that if you're right about the extra hour a week in primary school, as the Moderates suggest, it's the same teacher who's going to teach the extra hour. There may be a risk that more teachers will burn themselves out and that the quality of their teaching will be reduced.
i-b33826328b49234d-225	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me what measures I, as a minister, intend to take to strengthen order and order in the classroom, so that more students can feel safe and learn more in school. Robert Stenkvist has asked me what I, as a minister and government, intend to do to deal with the current situation of increasing and increasing violence in schools in our country. Robert Stenkvist has also asked what concrete measures I have already taken, as Minister and Government. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what concrete initiatives I, as a minister, intend to take to make the school a safe environment for both teachers and students. Here is a comprehensive answer to these questions. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that all children and students, as well as all staff, are safe in school. Violations, threats and violence against children, students or staff must never be accepted. Just as Michael Svensson states, order in the classroom is a prerequisite for children's and pupils' learning and development. Of course, a safe working environment also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. According to the School Act, the Head of School has a responsibility to ensure that education is designed in such a way that all pupils are provided with a school environment characterised by security and study. In close dialogue with teachers and pupils, the State's school inspection carries out regular supervision of the school's work with security and study and the work with standards and values. Furthermore, the Work Environment Act places demands on the employer when it comes to maintaining a good working environment. In the work on violations, threats and violence against staff we need well-functioning procedures that are known by everyone, routines that also include the school's contacts with social services and police. Assault is a crime and is punishable by the Criminal Code regardless of where the crime is physically committed. Of course, it is particularly serious when this type of crime is committed in school. The National Board of Education recommends that, in the event of serious incidents, the school also report suspicions of a crime to the police. The School Inspectorate reports in the School Survey's in-depth analysis from 2015 on co-variation between perceived safety in school and the school experience in general. Students who feel safe respond to much more than other students that the school is interesting and fun. The need for development work in matters of safety and study is also reflected in reports by the OECD and the Swedish National Agency for Education. During the term of office, the Government has implemented several measures aimed at ensuring that everyone is safe in the Swedish school and that children, pupils, teachers and other staff will enjoy their stay. Of course, more adults in school are crucial to a safe school. The government has invested in more employees in, for example, the preschool class and primary school, which has contributed to a total of 20 000 more people being employed full-time in the school system since the academic year 2014/ 15. Further measures decided by the Government are the regulation on state grants for staff enhancement in pupil health and special educational efforts and for further training in the areas of measures such as supervision and adaptation of teaching. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also been tasked with carrying out efforts to improve the prevention and promotion of pupil health. Within the national school development programmes, the National Agency for Education offers competence development for teachers and other staff at school, including for the work of increased security and studyo. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also been commissioned to evaluate the programme Mentors in Violence Prevention when used in school. The aim is to investigate whether the programme leads to changes in stereotypical gender patterns and gender norms that link masculinity and violence and whether the programme leads to changes in attitudes and behaviours linked to boys' violence. The School Commission in its final report Collection for the School – National strategy for knowledge and equivalence shortcomings in security and studyo. The report, in line with research in this area, stresses the importance of promoting and preventive work – a work to avoid it going as far as violations, threats and violence. The Government has therefore decided to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to map how regulations and disciplinary measures are used within the school and to submit proposals for measures aimed at achieving a school environment characterised by security and studyo. These are some of the initiatives taken by the government to strengthen security and order and to address the current situation of violence at school so that children and pupils can learn more.
i-b33826328b49234d-236	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister of Education, for your answer. We have talked about a lot here today, and there is a lot more to discuss in the education debate about how to strengthen the results in the Swedish school. We've been talking about teachers, teaching hours, state grants and exams. There are some, as it is popularly called, low-hanging fruits that we know would have an enormous impact on many students. It's the right diet, sleep and exercise – very simple things that don't need any major regulatory changes to introduce. But it is also peace of mind or order in the classes. I think that the last point is an extremely important one. I think we wouldn't even have to talk about some other problems if we had order in school. The Swedish school has quite a lot of problems with security. The PISA survey shows that Swedish pupils skip more than pupils in other countries and that every sixth 15-year-old is subjected to abuse and harassment several times a month. According to a survey by the National Association of Teachers, one teacher in four has been subjected to some form of ill-treatment, threats, violence, sexual harassment or violations. This in an important working environment for many people, both adults and students. That is why I think it is extremely important that we take a strong stance on this. The lack of peace of mind at school also leads, as I think the Minister mentioned, to a decline in knowledge. And who is always losing out on this? Yes, it's the weak-performing students. I myself remember when my daughter attended grade 5 in middle school and asked the teachers to wear headphones so as not to be disturbed by a second three to four in the class. I think it's about leadership. I think it is about what we talked a little about in the last debate: principals who have time for their educational leadership – that we get the heads to realise that the quickest measure to tackle these problems is to support and help the principals in their important work. But I also think that we need more leadership in the Swedish school – in teacher education but also in a training effort for the teachers present at school today so that teachers have the ability to take the initiative in the class and pedagogical skills to use different methods for different students.
i-b33826328b49234d-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. I agree with some of what Mr Svensson said, in particular that leadership needs to be strengthened and that the mess affects school results. The background to my interpellation is that we have recently seen a sharp increase in violence and gross sexual abuse in school – even in elementary school, which I wrote in my interpellation. Unfortunately, we have even seen cases of suspected rape in the country's schools. As a real warning bell – now it has been some time since then, but when I wrote the interpellation it had been very short time – we have seen the tragic murder in a high school in Enskede. In interviews with the students at the school after the attack, it became apparent that many students were afraid of and felt threatened by the student who carried out the murder. Nevertheless, insufficient action was taken. Of course, not all violent crimes can be prevented or predicted; that is the case. However, there were apparently plenty of warning signs in the school in Enskede, which, in my opinion, makes the event particularly tragic. Threats and violence against teachers are also a serious problem in some schools, especially in areas that the police point out as particularly vulnerable. In my municipality of residence, for a period of time, a school has employed guards to ensure the safety of pupils and teachers. It was probably right done by the municipality at the time. My first question was what the government intends to do to deal with the current situation with ever more and more violence in schools. We have received answers to this, including that violations, threats and violence against children, students or staff must never be accepted. Of course I agree with that. Everyone agrees with that. But it must also be demonstrated in practical action. It is not enough just to say so, albeit never so many times, but also to put your foot down at some point. My next question was what concrete measures the government has already taken. In its reply, the Government mentioned staff reinforcements, student health initiatives and special educators. These are good and important bets. I have nothing to say against those measures – on the contrary. But that is not enough to prevent such very serious events as we have seen in the last few years. A special educator would not be able to prevent what happened in Enskede. We believe that it must be possible to separate students, such as the student who carried out the murder in Enskede school. These are measures that may become publicly unpopular. I can imagine what it says on certain editorial pages and in political columns in the newspapers. But the students and the safety of the school must take precedence over how popular you become in the country's newspapers.
i-b33826328b49234d-255	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have been sitting here listening to a number of interpellations, and there are, as Michael Svensson said, many things that could be said relating to this area. Perhaps there would be no need for more adults if it were not for what we are about to talk about now: disorder, violations and other things that occur in school. That would have made better use of resources. Perhaps more adults would still be needed, but not to compensate for this, which we need to deal with. I would also like to start, for those who read and look at this, by saying that it is doing very well in school. It is important to get that said, because now we are focusing on the area where we see ever greater problems and the spread of bad behaviour, which creates a bad working environment. As has been said earlier, several teachers testify that they are afraid, threatened, and feel compelled to cancel lessons if possible. There are also schools where culture is that you do not cancel lessons, which is one of the tools that can actually be used but which may not be used. It is problematic, should this be necessary. Teachers also testify that they feel abandoned by the Vice-Chancellor and regulations and are often left entirely alone to deal with the situation. This is made more difficult if the regulatory framework is not applied as it should be. Teachers are then prevented from resorting to the measures required by the situation. The result is that teachers feel abandoned, the mess is increasing and students are allowed to destroy. An orderly majority loses, while those who corrupt also destroy for themselves and for their education. I have a number of case descriptions, and here follows one from a teacher: During a lesson the door to the classroom opens and closes at least ten times by students who have decided not to stay in the classroom, and then come back and interfere with the study that currently prevails. Once in the classroom again, these students climb furniture, crawl around on the floor and throw things at each other and us educators. We adults don't get listened to, we get called a number of gender words-- I wasn't going to bring them up. By word of mouth, we hear: You do not command me; I do as I please. During breaks and even in classes when students are told bad behaviour, they can kick and beat us adults and threaten us with, for example, brooms. They're aiming for our body. This is not a one-off event, but something that we educators experience daily. Once the students' school day is over, we are supposed to go to meetings, plan, summarize and analyze the day that has been. Because of everything that happened during the day, I have to put this aside and instead call the guardians and write incident reports. Thus, even the time to prepare for the next lesson is eaten up, and preparations are not made. The teacher continues: I think strongly about leaving the teaching profession because of what Swedish school looks like and its inability to solve the problems that exist in today's school environment. Most of all, I don't want to stop, as I think it's fantastic to teach and be able to follow the students' development. But under these premises, where violence, threats and violation of us educators and between students are ongoing daily, it is difficult to imagine a continuation. This is scary. It is about a shortage profession that is important for those who are going to start their path in life, grow up and take part in society. This is of great concern to me. You think about the everyday life of these teachers and what it means for those children who don't get what they're supposed to have. I will come back to you in the next speech.
i-b33826328b49234d-265	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, Robert Stenkvist and Michael Svensson, for the interpellations! Thank you too, Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for pointing out what we know, but it is dangerous when it disappears: There are many schools where there is a strong work going on, where you succeed with leadership and security and where the students feel safe. The vast majority of students in Sweden go to school and feel safe, just like the vast majority of teachers. Nor is it so simple that we can say that we know that we have an increase. All such studies can be discussed, turned, and turned, often pointing in a slightly different direction. Having said that, however, we see the reports arising from notifications, from the School Inspectorate and from the OECD reviews. We hear what you interpellants testify to, and I see for myself what it looks like when – as happens relatively often – I am out in schools without study visits and without the media being present. No, it must not be the case that students' peace of mind is broken, that security is destroyed, that you are worried about what is going to happen at the break or that teachers are worried about how they can use the tools they actually have. You should be safe, both in your teacher's role and as a student. I think that in the end it is about three things. Firstly, it is about staff. You have to be enough people to do the job to be able to meet that student who is messy or needs to meet before things get too messy. There must be enough for me as a teacher, if I feel vulnerable, to be able to go to someone quickly and discuss how I work further. Staff is important. It's also about routines. Let me point out four areas where routines are particularly important. I will, if I am exposed as a teacher, know that I have a principal who will be there for me, to whom I can go and who will take the case further and make the necessary contacts, whether it is with the guardian, the municipality or the public in general. Furthermore, it is a question of rules of procedure. We know that they are a very good tool at the schools where they work and where security works. That is precisely why we are now trying to spread this tool so that jointly respected rules of conduct are used in all schools. Thirdly, school is not a public place. It's for the people who work there. It must be clear in the routine that people do not run to school who do not belong there. Fourthly, the rules that actually exist, such as the separation of pupils or of minor disciplinary powers that teachers have in the classroom, must be known and used. It is important that the procedures are clear – that what we in Parliament and in laws have decided that you can use as a school, principal or teacher is also de facto used in situations where it can be useful. For example, a student who interferes with the security and study of others can be separated from teaching or moved to another school. The third, in addition to staff and routines, is of course leadership and competence: leadership from the Vice-Chancellor who conveys that these are issues that are taken very seriously. A safe school is a prerequisite for the knowledge mission. It is also about the leadership in the classroom for me as a teacher and that I have the opportunity to practice it. Competence is about knowing that I'm going to work with students who, if I meet them properly, don't actually have to be messy. I have to have conditions and tools, for example working with specialist teachers. In order for all of these three elements to be strengthened – staff, routines and leadership and skills – the state must be able to be present especially at schools with tough conditions. Sometimes it takes someone from outside to make change work possible. We know that change is possible. We see schools that have tough conditions and have very good results in terms of security and education. We have schools that have been very messy and where many students had problems but then it turned and become we change. The state can contribute to such work through the S grant for the best school.
i-b33826328b49234d-276	Madam President, I would like The question is how to attract more teachers into the profession when we still have such big problems. The shortage has partly led, although the issue of wages has not been resolved, to significantly higher salaries for many teachers in many municipalities. This may eventually become a problem for the principals, since many first teachers have overtaken them in terms of wages. But when we read daily about fighting, violence, threats and violations, and a language that we would never accept in any other context, we have to ask ourselves the question: Is this perhaps the biggest problem we have right now at school? We know that this leads to much less teaching time. I think in my last interpellation debate I talked about students missing out in about a year. However, this is a truth with modification. Someone has calculated that all the minutes that it takes to start a lesson and the time that is lost because many go before the lesson is finished corresponds to about a full year during the nine years of primary school. This is therefore not only a problem of order, which we jointly note impairs the performance of the weak students, but also leads to less teaching time. The question is what more rules of procedure the Minister of Education can imagine. I believe, as I said, that leadership is extremely important. The teaching authority of old has disappeared, for good and for evil. Some might need it today, and some may miss it. But, of course, it should have been replaced by modern leadership. But since there has been a reduction in the status of the teaching profession, perhaps a number of people have entered into this profession, which should have done something else in life. They may not have the right focus to get the students interested. Gustav Fridolin's colleague Anna Ekström is said to have called someone at the International English School and praised them for their educational skills and profile – this was not about the last win debate. I would like to ask the Minister for Education if they can serve as an example. I have also heard that the Minister for Education has visited Ölyckeskolan. I saw the report from there. It is a school led by a clear educational leader, who, incidentally, is ex-military – but that is not really the point. However, there are clear rules of procedure there, and it is clarity that characterises the whole school. Is that an example to follow? And how can the Minister of Education ensure that it is carried out in more places in the country?
i-b33826328b49234d-282	Madam President, I would like I will address a number of points in the speech by the Minister for Education. We know that the very serious violence has increased. It wasn't there when I was growing up. It's a whole new phenomenon. This must logically have increased. It is clear that we must have rules of procedure, and all schools today do. But there must be a scale and a stairway up which means that if you ignore the rules of procedure – there are some, but there are quite few – there are consequences. I agree that school is not a public place. This is something that all parties will have to take hold of and think about what we will do in the future. It's a new phenomenon. We have not previously cared about who goes in and out of schools, but we have to start thinking about that now. The Minister of Education says the rules must be used. There were rules in the school in Lund where there was a tragic rape. Yet, the girl who was exposed met the offender in the schoolyard. It is appalling, it is sad and it is totally unacceptable for such things to happen. Perhaps it was the individual principal who made a very bad decision. Unlike perhaps Michael Svensson, I am talking about very serious crimes. But you need to talk about both things, and I think there is a connection. The school law is simply not adapted for this type of crime. Doesn't the Minister of Education think we need to change the school law? It's a new situation. It's not like when the Minister of Education and I went to school. I am thinking of special schools for burdened students that pose a threat to other students, or perhaps home schooling for a shorter or longer period. The written answer given to me by the Government says in connection with the School Survey: a student who feels safe responds to a much higher degree than other students that the school is interesting and fun. It is much more serious than that. I recently read a book by brain scientist Martin Ingvar. He has scientifically shown that students who feel insecure learn nothing, as the brain has adapted through millennia to survival in perilous situations. In a climate of insecurity, the brain simply disconnects learning. It is a survival strategy that we have had for thousands of years. In an insecure classroom, students thus disconnect learning – those students who feel insecure. If students are to learn anything at all, the classrooms must be calm and secure. Unfortunately, many classrooms are not that in today's Swedish school. This is particularly true in certain areas, which I mentioned earlier. One should be more than just naïve if one does not realise that this has a negative impact on the results of the studies. It is probably a cause, and perhaps the most important, of our downward trend in the PISA surveys. The last one showed itself on a slight rise. Can the Government reflect on this? Don't we need a new toolbox with action now that reality looks like it does?
i-b33826328b49234d-294	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for what was said. I mentioned earlier a case and the teachers' stories about how they are beaten with brooms and hearing all kinds of words. This is about primary school students. These problems have therefore declined in their ages. It's really scary. There are many such stories. Sydsvenskan has had a website where teachers have spoken of themselves, and we see that there is a firm need to talk about the reality that they face daily. It was spoken in a previous post here about a new toolbox. I am a little concerned that the tools that exist are not being used. I agree with much of what the Minister for Education said in his speech about what can actually be done. What scares me is that you don't. It is never fun to close a classroom or a school for the day or to take other action because of the big things that can happen. But it's necessary. I feel that it has become the case that teachers can almost become hostage if they submit a report up to the headmaster and nothing happens – there is a culture of silence. Then there are also trade union representatives in some places who no longer seem to want to do their work. There are staff who have been allowed to leave their job when they have submitted a report to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. I can't say it was because of that. However, according to the accounts, this is something on which it is not viewed with gentle eyes. If the Swedish School Inspectorate is going to do the survey that emerged in the answer, I think it is very good. But I'm very concerned. I very much hope that it will be real, so that we can have a proper assessment of what the situation is. There is a culture of silence, and stories do not get through. You sit there and you can't do anything. Students are not allowed to leave the classroom, and you should preferably not call parents and so on. This is widespread in some places. Someone also says that police reports are not made – you don't have that culture. Then I feel that you're stuck in something other than what's meant. Action must be taken. Then you must also have the courage to stand up for the measures you take at school. Then I am back to what Michael Svensson said about leadership and where it has gone. Perhaps there are politicians at municipal level who sit in a board and believe that everything works well. But they do not get the material they would need to do something political. They say that school is none of your business, because that's what we do in the organization. At the same time, it is this culture that prevails. And these children and youths can get to do this game and ruin themselves and others — their lives and their future. I am very concerned about this.
i-b33826328b49234d-303	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants again. I agree with a lot of what they say. For me, this – I want to bring that dimension here regardless of what we think about profit and other things – is one of the reasons why we should not describe school as a market. No matter how we think the system should be built, this is not a market in the sense that you as a student or parent are a customer. It is part of the welfare where demands are also made and must be made, both on the student about how to behave and, where appropriate, on the guardian. It is important that we bring this with us when we describe what the school is and how the school should work and that we strengthen the school's various actors in order for them to be able to fulfil this task. I think we can agree on this in essence. Then it also leads to conclusions on how to build the system in the best way, and we can certainly discuss this further. But the foundation that you are not a customer but a citizen, who has rights but on whom demands can also be made, is important to me – not least, in this case, in relation to guardians. I will return to a question asked by Michael Svensson: What do I see when I meet some of the schools in Sweden? Of course, especially interesting are those who have had really difficult problems with the mess and crimes that are committed – without it really being perceived as a crime – and who have since seen a development where today there is actually security and studyo. Two things come up again: there are clear rules that are jointly respected and that teachers know that they can fall back on. There are also clear expectations of students – expectations that are communicated, and may need to be communicated further consistently and continuously, to guardians. This is one of the reasons why one of the most important things we do is to spread that tool – the tool rules of order – and see how it works and be able to use it further at all Swedish schools. It gives a completely different kind of leadership than if you are perceived to come up with a new rule for a problem that arises: knowing what the foundation is and what expectations look like, that expectations are consistently communicated to students and guardians and that teachers can lean on them. Just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson describes, the School Act means that you have fairly far-reaching powers both in terms of what sanctions you can use for those who do not comply with regulations and in terms of how you can work to ensure security and study in an emergency situation. I would say, for example, that the discussion we have had in the Committee on Education on what happened in Lund shows that the problem today is perhaps not the lack of rules but that the rules should really be used. Then our job is to find out how we ensure that the rules are used. Today you can separate students and teach students individually. There is a good report in the Teacher's newspaper, I think it is, about the so-called skolakuten in Stockholm municipality that is used for students who currently cannot be taught elsewhere. In the legal system there is the National Board of Institutional Affairs. We therefore have this type of tool, but we must ensure that it is used and can be used. Sometimes it's a question of resources – for example, for the National Board of Institutional Affairs, where we now provide resources – but very often it's a matter of feeling confident about using the powers we have given. That is where our common task is important. The task of disseminating rules of procedure is also to disseminate the current disciplinary powers. Finally, I should like to add one thing. Just as security provides knowledge, knowledge can be security creation. If I get the opportunity to keep up with my lessons and if my self-confidence can be intact and not broken down during schooling, both in my relationships with other students and in relations with teachers, the conditions for me to do my best through schooling are much better. There, other knowledge issues that we discuss together, such as early support and teachers' conditions for leadership, will be important.
i-b33826328b49234d-313	Madam President, I would like There is a great deal that has happened in the Swedish school, not only in the last 10 years but in the last 30 to 40 years. Despite my age and the fact that it's been a while since I went to school myself, I actually think that if I only got a minute, I could list virtually all the teachers I've had – starting from grade 1. I may not know everyone in high school, but basically I know all the other teachers. I also remember them with great love, in fact, because they were amazing in their teaching and teaching. Many were very clear; even some teachers had incredible respect with them. There was no point in anyone even trying anything. Of course, you raised your hand and asked if you could do one or the other. As I said before, there was also an authority there, but it was not always negative. In fact, it could also be positive. We should also mention in the debate, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson previously said, that not everything is miserable in Swedish school. There's a lot of good stuff, too. Not least, it is worth telling those of you who are sitting up there in the gallery and all those who may follow the debate on television that there is a great deal of good that is done in Swedish school. However, this is an extremely serious problem and, of course, I wonder whether the Minister for Education believes that there are more measures to be taken. We suggested that teachers should bring more leadership skills from teacher training, but unfortunately the government said no to that. I also read this morning about cell phones – someone took a picture of a national sample and passed on. The school inspectorate wanted the school to remedy this. They did, but they refused to collect all the cell phones.
i-b33826328b49234d-318	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but reflect on Mr Svensson's last speech. I worked at Malmsjö school with a small, thin teacher who had a really, really difficult class. When she had the class, however, one could hear a pin fall. And she was a little girl. One of the smallest teachers I've ever worked with. It was amazing, actually. You would actually examine what gave her authority and what enabled her to direct the class in the marvelous way she did. I have just a few brief comments. No, school is not really a market. However, we have the English School, and it actually seems to be the one who succeeds best in order, teaching and learning in school. It is well worth considering. But some ordinary market is not, and if there is any customer it is the taxpayer. When it comes to using the rules that exist, I still think about this with the Vice-Chancellor in Lund. You may have to train the principals so that they really make use of the rules they have. If a principal is afraid to make tough decisions, it may not be the principal at all. It could be. When it comes to the mess in school and the teaching profession, I've talked to some teachers. It is not pay or working conditions that discourage people from continuing in the teaching profession, but it is the mess in school. Then I am talking about the more vulnerable areas. This therefore reduces the attractiveness of the teaching profession and is serious. This is an important issue in many different ways.
i-b33826328b49234d-322	Madam President, I would like What we are talking about now, that is, disorder in classrooms, in schools and violations, are extremely serious problems. Like the other debaters here, I am thinking about the regulatory framework that we have and which is not widely used in some places. What the teachers experience does not go to the headmaster, and if it goes further, it stays there. Or it goes on but disappears into a system and never gets where it should, and you can't reach the young people, the children and their parents. I wonder why you don't start by calling home. There are many teachers who call home and spend a lot of time on this during planning time. To get the right side of something, you have to put your foot down. Then you have to say that it is zero tolerance. We in here can say that there is zero tolerance to what we have been talking about, but it must somehow also be heard in society. For we are, to a large extent, heading in the wrong direction when it comes to school. We can see and hear the experiences of how things work in everyday life in a place where students should get education, and it must not continue. My question to the Minister is really, as Michael Svensson also mentioned, what can be done to strengthen teachers, principals and the organisation in the work that has to be done to get us right on this. I feel that somewhere we have come to a point where it seems that one is perhaps afraid of getting bad criticism in the media. We'll never end up there. It is very important that this is right, that you do what you have to do and that you do not talk about black painting. The discussions we have here today are not blacking out, but talking about the problems we have – so that we can solve them.
i-b33826328b49234d-326	Madam President, I would like No, that's never the way it should be. It must not be the fear of criticism that one has dealt with a problem that prevents one from dealing with the problems. That was one of the reasons why I raised the issue of the school market and how it risks working if we have the wrong idea of what this really is. The school must be able to stand strong here. There are three things we can and will do. First of all, there must be enough people working in school to deal with order problems. If a teacher needs to send out a student in the corridor – which you may need on certain occasions and also have the authority to – the decision will be very much more difficult if the teacher knows that there is no other adult present who will help. The fact that there are enough people who do the job affects the teacher's ability to use the disciplinary powers he has as a teacher. Secondly, the routines must be clear. You have to know what you're leaning on as a teacher. You shouldn't have to discuss mobile phones every day and every lesson. The teacher must know that it is supported by the principal if it has had to act in any way. Similarly, the principal must know that the principal is strongly on the teacher's side. This does not necessarily mean that all decisions taken are right – that is why we have examining institutions. There is a danger in Sweden today that it is believed that it is threatened with notification to the Swedish School Inspectorate or any other authority. Sometimes it is good that things are examined in close to human occupations. If I work as a doctor, I know there will be times when I will be examined. It is part of having this profession, with all the responsibility that it entails. The same applies if I work at Försäkringskassan– then I know that things that I do will be audited. In the same way, it must be in school. A review does not have to be wrong in itself. At some point it may also be concluded that something could have been done in a different way, and perhaps there is also respect for this in the review. So scrutiny itself does not need to be wrong and must not be something that discourages a teacher from acting. Thirdly, on staff and procedures: it is about leadership and competence, just as we have talked about. Leadership needs to be strengthened. It is part of natural training. This is also something that teachers in Sweden today are good at doing – that says our research and our follow-ups.
i-b33826328b49234d-338	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that municipal and independent schools are replaced on equal terms. The question is posed in the light of a study by the National Association of Free Schools, which according to Stockhaus shows that six out of ten municipalities pay too little school money to the independent schools. Furthermore, the report shows that many municipalities are failing in their decisions and that the decisions are taken too late. The report referred to by Stockhaus is not about the size of the municipalities' contribution to individual principals, but about the municipalities' procedures for grant decisions. I have recently answered a written question from Stockhaus' party colleague Johan Hultberg, who also drew attention to the said study of the Free School Associations and its statement that six out of ten municipalities do not take school-specific grant decisions. In my reply, I stated that the principle of a level playing field is the starting point for the grant provisions of the School Act. In essence, therefore, the same conditions should apply to independent schools as to schools with municipal authorities, and grant decisions should be subject to appeal through administrative complaints. I also noted that the State's school inspection has submitted to a municipality that has not taken a decision in accordance with the regulatory framework to take action and that this decision clarifies to the municipalities what rules apply. I therefore do not intend to take any further action.
i-b33826328b49234d-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. One of our main tasks as a school politician is to create the best possible conditions for our schools, so that they have the opportunity to offer students high quality teaching. Ultimately, this is about the students. They should feel confident that it is a good school where they get the support they need, no matter which school they choose or which municipality the school is in. That is why, among other things, we have the legislation on equal opportunities for local and independent schools. This is an important principle, which exists to ensure the transparency and predictability of schools' finances. All pupils must be guaranteed access to skilled teachers. Providing long-term and stable conditions is an important prerequisite for making the necessary investments in quality and staffing density as desired and needed. Then there must also be clarity in terms of funding. D e ta applies to both municipal and independent schools – one should be able to feel a certain level of stability financially in order to make the necessary efforts. Many free schools that I meet have major problems in relation to the municipality in which they are located. These include the size and management of school allowances in general and additional payments in particular. Of course, the National Associations of Free Schools are trying to raise this issue in various ways. It is, of course, about their members and their ability to carry out their activities. But from my horizon, this is also important for students who choose free schools. They must feel confident that it is a good school where they get the resources that they would have had if they had chosen a municipal school, regardless of which school they choose or who is the principal. Unfortunately, this is not the case in many municipalities today. An important condition for equal treatment is that independent schools have the opportunity to appeal if they do not consider the school allowance to be equivalent. Then it is important that decisions are taken correctly – otherwise they do not have this opportunity. The fact that a majority of municipalities – six out of ten – make wrong decisions, do not target their decisions to specific schools or take decisions late indicates that compliance with the principle of equal opportunities leaves a great deal to be desired. This is remarkable for a country like Sweden, where we value transparency, predictability and long-term sustainability, especially when it comes to our children's schooling. The Green Party has at least been a supporter of free schools and may well have been a fan, but this attitude now seems to have completely given up in government positions. In his reply, the Minister for Education says that he does not intend to act, even though a majority of Sweden's municipalities do not comply with the Equal Opportunities Act. How does it affect the equivalence of the Swedish school system?
i-WNtV2qabqkMcD7WRL5xCYD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. I think the question is important. It clarifies a clear problem, even though the first intervention by the interpeller ended in the political divides that exist. For the record's sake, I would like to make it clear that I believe that there can be demands for a free school or an independent actor that the tax money that you and I give to the business should also arrive at quality in it and still be a friend of the business being allowed to run so. I even think it might be the case that by making this kind of demand, which creates a common trust in all those whom we give the confidence to run our most important welfare business and to provide education for our children, we really are a friend of the business. The kind of scandals we have seen, or the kind of situations we have seen where tax money has disappeared for other things than what it is intended for, has not benefited Swedish free school. I'm a friend of free schools. However, I think that they should comply with certain rules, and this is one of the rule proposals that we will now present to Parliament for decision. With regard to the issue specifically raised by Maria Stockhaus, additional funding is something that Maria Stockhaus knows I have been involved in. We have made sure that the rules are clearer today in order to ensure the existence of free schools that work especially with many pupils who need additional funding. The report from the National Association of Free Schools cited by Maria Stockhaus points to a major problem with municipal procedures in grant decisions. That is precisely why it is important that the School Inspectorate has now made a decision. The decision of the School Inspectorate means that a municipality has been submitted to make changes in how the municipality pays grants. This decision is valid for all municipalities. That is why, in conclusion, I note that I do not intend to take any other action. Now the School Inspectorate has put its foot down. It should be clear to all Swedish municipalities that grant decisions must pay in accordance with the rules and in such a way that decisions can be appealed.
i-b33826328b49234d-367	Madam President, I would like When it comes to requirements for independent activities, it is important to assume that high quality requirements are imposed. Then we ensure that our tax money is spent properly. This applies to both independent and municipal schools in Sweden. I think there are very few independent schools – and very few parents and children who have chosen independent schools – who feel that this government stands up because independent schools have a place in the Swedish school system. Freestanding schools are highly appreciated by many. They are generally of high quality. There have been discussions about order and order. The International English School – one of the largest groups, which has definitely been in the shoot-out in the debate on welfare gains – generally delivers more security and better education than many municipal schools do. The Minister for Education's answer is that he does not intend to do anything about the problem of school money decisions, which affect very many free schools and cause them a lot of problems in terms of long-term and economics. And the proposal to limit profits, which the Minister for Education himself raised in his second speech, is a position that sends clear signals to free schools in Sweden that they are not desirable. You should take the warning signals that come about the decisions of municipalities seriously and not refer to a single injunction of the School Inspectorate against a municipality. It is the exercise of authority to decide on school money for independent schools. The fact that six out of ten do not succeed in this is not about a single decision by the School Inspectorate against a municipality being able to overcome this. I think it's turning your back on free schools. Unfortunately, they have already felt that this government has turned its back on them. But even more serious is that you turn your back on all those students who choose independent schools. It is not seen that it is a major problem that the municipalities are unable to cope with the practice of public authority in relation to independent schools. It is not the first report that the National Associations of Free Schools come up with that indicates that it is a major problem. The biggest problem is for small independent schools. I met two enthusiasts who run Kristinaskolan on Lidingö and who will have to drive processes towards their municipality. Now it's Lidingö municipality, so it works pretty well there. But I have also met with the management of Nyköping's free high school. Their appeal of the municipality's decision on school money is an endless sequel. It is important that this is taken seriously. The hundreds of thousands of pupils in Sweden who choose independent schools must be able to feel confident that there is a guarantee that the resources that they would have brought with them if they chose a municipal school are the same resources that accompany them when they go to an independent school. It is an important quality factor for the school and important for the students to feel that security. In some cases I suspect that the decision on school money is ideologically based depending on the colour of the municipality. For example, Nyköping's free upper secondary school appeals its school money in principle every year, and often they get it right. Then the municipality finds some new way to disadvantage them in the next decision on school money. Now that school, which is very popular and which is doing very well, wants to start a primary school. They've got it all right from the School Inspectorate. However, the municipality is now trying to stop it by not giving building permits in the building where it is planned to start school. It's a big problem how municipalities treat free schools. The latest report is an important part of it. It is remarkable that the government is doing nothing. How many more signals will be needed for the government to go in and ensure that pupils who choose independent schools have the same resources?
i-b33826328b49234d-379	Madam President, I would like I also have to take an example from reality. Maria Stockhaus has explained the problem here. In my municipality of residence, a free school was started by two teachers who in the regular municipal school wanted to change and saw opportunities to, as the minister was at here earlier in the debate, do in other ways to achieve their goals. They were advised by the head of administration to start a free school, and they did just that. Friskolan received its money through the administration at the municipal school, i.e. that company A manages company B. We would not think it would be good if the company Ikea were to run the furniture company Kinnarps, because there are two different companies working with furniture in their case, but in this case there are school issues. That's why it should be out of the question. They were right to have lost money for years. They had not received the funds that they should have. As Maria Stockhaus told, the building committee was used to eventually close a school where many students had turned. D one worked well and they were very pleased. A lot of people wanted to go to that school. Instead of developing the school, however, it was dismantled. I am not going to spend any more time discussing this, but I find it tragic that the children for whom the school is intended have been disadvantaged in this way.
i-b33826328b49234d-383	Madam President, I would like A municipality that runs a school is not a company. A municipality is a municipality. The municipality is our closest democratic arena where we, as citizens, can act to get the society that we want. When someone gets the trust to run the welfare mission school, they get it based on a review that we together agree to tighten up, and the municipality has continued to be responsible for the coherent school system. It is therefore no wonder that it is the municipalities that make this kind of decision. The OECD also clearly calls in its review of the school system for closer cooperation between municipalities and free schools, for them to work more together and be less competitive. With this statement, I would of course like to answer the very question of the interpellation. There is nothing strange to refer to a decision of the School Inspectorate regarding a municipality. In all other contexts, we agree on a system of interpretation of the School Act where it is the School Inspectorate who, where appropriate, clarifies the legal situation. When the Swedish School Inspectorate has clarified the legal situation, by decision on a case-by-case basis, it is indicative for all other municipalities. In this case, the very problem that the National Association of Free Schools has highlighted, and which Maria Stockhaus' intervention is about, has been the subject of a decision whereby the Swedish School Inspectorate has submitted a municipality to change its procedures so that they become in accordance with the legislation. In this way, the decision is indicative for all municipalities. This is the order and the legal interpretation of the school law that we agree on in these cases should take place. Madam President, I would like After the two contributions, the question of profit cannot be ignored. And I must honestly ask the question: Is the Moderates really sure that the best way to protect the place of free school and the possibility for enthusiasts to run a school based on an idea they believe is to continue to have the freedom to use tax money for a completely different activity than the one for which they are intended? It is a rulelessness, unprecedented in international comparison, that we in Sweden have. We often allow large companies to use tax money for a completely different business than the one they are for – to expand in other countries, to other municipalities or for that matter to profit distributions, perhaps even dividends to owners who are registered in such a way that they can make smart arrangements to avoid paying the tax they live by. I, for my part, think it hurts the free school. It harms free school as an idea, and it harms the long-term opportunity for committed teachers, principals and others to run a school based on an educational idea. It thus damages the freedom of choice and diversity of students. That is why I think it is reasonable to make demands on the person who gets the trust to run the welfare mission school and that one of the requirements should be that when you and I give tax money to the business, the money should go to what they are intended for, not to profit distribution.
i-b33826328b49234d-390	Madam President, I would like I have been involved in debates on welfare gains many times and with several ministers. My answer has been that what is important is that we set high quality standards and follow them up, and that applies whether it is an independent or a municipal activity. It is important, as the Minister for Education highlighted in his last speech, that there should be good cooperation between the municipality and the independent businesses. And it works very well in many municipalities. But in municipalities led by coalitions where the Minister for Education and Social Democrats are involved, there is no good cooperation, because municipalities are constantly trying to find ways to disadvantage the independent school. Either you stop it, if it wants to expand and is too popular, using the planning and building permits instrument. You make sure to find different ways to give free goods to the municipal school that an independent school does not have the same access to. When a municipality does not make decisions in the manner stipulated by law regarding the size of the school grant and the free school cannot appeal, there will be a legal process with the National Association of Free Schools. Attempts are being made to pursue this in different ways, and it takes a huge amount of power from these schools – power that they need to invest in quality. Schools need stable economic conditions; this applies to both independent and municipal schools. There are so many signals, and not only in the latest report, that the municipalities are not doing their job. Nevertheless, it must be recognised that municipalities as principals do not always function optimally. It is very grateful for the government to constantly go after the independent principals, but municipal principals do not always do their job either. In this case, in relation to independent schools, they do not.
i-b33826328b49234d-396	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education. Let me continue with this on entrepreneurship and that the municipality has a responsibility. Of course, the municipality has a responsibility, but it is not wise to put it in the hands of the education administration to run another school. We wouldn't let one school run another school. If you have an accounting department, it is appropriate to put it there to get the money in order. It might also help to avoid what Maria Stockhaus has been following, which means that the system of giving more in one direction than in the other is being tightened up, which is unacceptable. Regarding free schools, care, LSS and more: There should be high quality requirements with follow-up of the goals. We have municipalities that do not follow up and have no history of doing so although they have to do so. It must be high quality even on the municipal side. We have had long debates about the concerns that exist, and all my examples come here today from the municipal side. So there is much to do there. It is a black hole where money goes down – money that we must use well in all contexts. You usually talk about an airbag when you have money left over to keep the operations running. To have 45 000 in the account, as proposed, is not what regions require of their health centres or anything else in order to have small funds to develop and run the activities. There is quite little money in this context.
i-b33826328b49234d-402	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus and AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson can be sure that I'm chasing for good results in both municipal and independent schools. Earlier this day we discussed Collaboration for best school, the biggest change in the state's relationship with municipalities and other authorities since the establishment of the School Inspectorate. We are working at the very schools where we need to work together to increase the results. At the end of the day, what matters most is that the students bring with them the skills they need. Maria Stockhaus, I and, I hope, the entire Parliament fully agree that decisions should be taken according to the system that is regulated legally and applies. This also applies to decisions on the payment of funds to free schools, which is why it is good that there is now a clarification by an injunction from the School Inspectorate. Madam President, I would like It may be good to set different types of quality requirements. I note that on average it is the case today that free schools have lower teacher density, lower teacher continuity, lower teachers' salaries and a lower percentage of qualified teachers than other schools. The free schools that make a profit need to pay for it somewhere. Of course, the most sensible thing would be that you were entitled to at least the same teacher qualification when you go to a free school as when you go to a municipal school. I find it difficult to see the school where the resources that go out in profit would not be better needed for a little more time and support for those students who even at a well-functioning school risk missing the goals. Too developed quality requirements risk colliding with what Maria Stockhaus' first intervention today was about: that we should not put too much bureaucracy on school employees and that they should not have to fill in too many surveys and results reports without having confidence in governance. I believe that a basis for that trust in governance is that we know what the money is used for. It is therefore reasonable to make the requirement that when tax money enters the business, the tax money should be used for the business and not be paid out in profit. For this reason, we will present such a proposal to the Swedish Parliament.
i-b33826328b49234d-408	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether I share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the government is taking a passive role and that its focus on meeting the EU's goals has been reduced and how I intend to strengthen the government's efforts and increase the government's activity in the EU to ensure that Swedish interests are protected. An important part of EU cooperation in the field of transport is the implementation of the trans-European transport network, TEN-T. The network consists of a core network and a comprehensive network covering all modes of transport including intermodal platforms and waterways. Sweden participates actively in EU cooperation on the trans-European transport network and within the Connecting Europe Facility. In particular, Sweden participates in the Fund's calls for proposals in the field of transport, where EU co-financing is awarded to relevant and mature projects. In addition, the negotiations on the next EU Multiannual Financial Framework will begin in 2018. During 2016 and 2017, the Government has worked on preparations for future budget priorities at EU level to promote both Swedish and European interests. The Government has further stated in proposal 2016/ 17:21 Infrastructure for the future – innovative solutions for strengthening competitiveness and sustainable development that it is urgent to intensify cooperation on transport with the Nordic neighbours and other countries around the Baltic Sea as well as within the EU as a whole in order to increase transport efficiency and develop cross-border accessibility. As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I have already answered Christian Holm Barenfeld in an answer to a question on 20 December 2017. The answer still applies: The Government welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's report. According to the Parliamentary Order, within four months of receiving an audit report prepared by the Swedish National Audit Office, the Government will return to the Riksdag with a letter. In the letter, the Government will present its assessments of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. I am not going to precede this process and am therefore unable to comment on the review report in more detail.
i-b33826328b49234d-415	Madam President, I would like I thank Tomas Eneroth for his answer. It is an urgent matter, and I raised it after the Swedish National Audit Office's report on road and rail investments in Sweden stated that there is a lack of an EU perspective, which is a clear criticism of the government. I expressed some concern because there is a lot at stake, and it is important that the government has a clear and explicit strategy for how to implement and achieve the objectives that exist with the EU, not least the so-called TEN-T projects and so on. This is clearly stated in the Swedish National Audit Office's report:- As stated above, the government has been passive in the control of the Swedish Transport Administration. One possible explanation could be that there are insufficient resources within the Government Office to develop strategic responsibility. ..................................................... It's a clear wording. Furthermore, the lack of strategic responsibility highlighted in the SOU report on the organisation of railways can explain passive governance. In addition, it is noted that the Swedish Transport Administration has also been passive in this matter. It comes to the overall assessment that both the Government and the Finnish Transport Agency have been passive in taking account of EU objectives in the planning of transport infrastructure, which is of course serious. Work has been done within the company Oslo – Stockholm 2.55 in order to accelerate the expansion of better rail traffic between the capitals of Norway and Sweden. It is an important stretch, not least for my home country's labour market and business. It notes that the investigation has been carried out, started the company and concluded that there can be great benefits from relatively limited investment compared to many other parts of rail investment. This is one of the TEN-T projects that the EU is talking about and where this link or route is an important part. Therefore, it is particularly worrying, not least from a perspective for us who live in the counties along the stretch between Oslo and Stockholm, that one can read in the Swedish National Audit Office's report that the government is passive towards EU issues. I note from the Minister's reply that he does not want to anticipate the processes that exist, but it must nevertheless be possible to respond to what is the background to the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office can so clearly state that the government and the Swedish Transport Administration have been passive in their position.
i-5YvrPPtjJkJJexoNvxQcEW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian Holm Barenfeld, for the commitment and the question! I share the view that, as the National Audit Office says, there may be a lack of resources in the Government Office. You probably always think that there are more things you would like to investigate and look at, but it is crowded in terms of resources. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Government from 2013 and later. I agree: the Alliance government was very passive. There was less investment in infrastructure, no priority was given to rail, and even a finance minister said that rail investment was unprofitable. But now we have another government. We spend 100 billion more on infrastructure, and as of 2017, says Riksrevisionen, there is a clear change in the follow-up of EU governance. This is, of course, important. We intend to return with both answers to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter and in the national plan on how the government views itself as important priorities. I think it is important for us in Sweden to comply with the commitments we have within the EU in terms of prioritising TEN-T projects, but thus not to say that we are choosing the same financing model as in the whole of Europe. There is an ongoing discussion on the need to have mixed financing, i.e. to lend more to infrastructure investments. I think that we in Sweden should be careful to ensure that we have money to be able to pay the loans that this means. There should always be a balance between the EU's common objectives and other priorities. In Christian Holm Barenfeld's county, this is clear. There are many urgent road projects in Värmland, for example, which are not subject to EU co-financing but which, nevertheless, are described by the warmers as important in a national plan. It is this balance that the government has to make – the priorities that are made between important national interests in Värmland and international interests in terms of strengthening the TEN-T corridor. Again: The government will return to this in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. I would like to emphasise that I appreciate the work of the Swedish National Audit Office. They do incredibly meritorious reports. It may be that, as I note that the Finnish Transport Administration writes, one can have views on how the report has been produced and what conclusions are drawn. This analysis work is now ongoing within the Government Office, and we will give our response on this in due course. Above all, and I believe that Christian Barenfeld is looking forward to this, it is when we draw up the national plan and report the 700 billion we are going to invest in infrastructure in the future that the answer is given to the extent to which we take into account the future EU priority. For me, it is important for Sweden to fulfil its EU commitments, but it is also important that we now have more resources to spend on infrastructure than the previous government had. There is EUR 100 billion more that we can spend on rail maintenance, for example, or, for that matter, on new investments throughout the country.
i-b33826328b49234d-433	Madam President, I would like I thank Tomas Eneroth for the clarifications. Of course we can always go back and discuss previous governments. It is usually the case in all interpellation debates that current ministers go back and say that everything that is wrong rests on the alliance government. Now the alliance government made historically great efforts also on railways and roads. As I am sure Tomas Eneroth is well aware, there was a very large backward maintenance deficit when the alliance government took over after the former Social Democratic government, if we are to go back into the history lesson. In addition, it is clear that the alliance government in all parts was committed, active and proactive on EU issues. We received that judgment clearly from the then Vice-President of the European Commission, the current Foreign Minister Margot Wallström. I do not have the exact quote, but the bottom line was that no government in Sweden had been as active, proactive and present in European politics as the alliance government. What is also important, as we know, is that the alliance government was not only active and present, but also at a very high level, that is, usually at ministerial level. This is, of course, important if you want to have an influence in the European Union. That's why I wrote the interpellation – it wasn't just for government priorities in the budget and in precise projects. In fact, there are many important projects where EU work lays a good foundation. As a warm foreigner, one can calmly conclude that we have a link, the so-called Nordic triangle, which we usually talk about, but which unfortunately in many ways is a Nordic single-v, where we have good communications between Copenhagen and Oslo and between Stockholm and Copenhagen but where we have partly a neglected road and rail network in terms of the communities between Oslo and Stockholm. If you look at parts of Värmland you can see that a lot of motorway has been built up to Värmland. The alliance got through so that we have built more highway west from Karlstad, but we still have some up to the Norwegian border that is far from sufficient. We know that, with regard to the train, there is much to negotiate with our counterparts on the Norwegian side. I hope that the Minister will maintain good contact with the Minister for Infrastructure in the re-elected bourgeois government in Norway, in order to ensure that we speak the same language from Oslo to Stockholm, thereby ensuring that communication between our two capitals, on the one hand, and the cities on the road, is strengthened and improved. This could strengthen our labour market situation, but it could also make the train an adequate alternative to flying, as 1.4 million people do between Stockholm and Oslo every year, without building very expensive, completely new main roads, as proposed by the Green Party and possibly the Social Democrats.
i-b33826328b49234d-442	Madam President, I would like We will continue the discussion that we had before the break. I can see that it is probably true that Mrs Wallström, as former Commissioner, praised the Swedish bourgeois government. I think that Fredrik Reinfeldt did a good job in terms of EU work. In just that part, the bourgeois government behaved. There is a government that has handled it even better. It is the current Social Democratic-led government, which has been identified as the government that has a great influence in the European process. I say this against the background of the interpellation, which is about how we defend Europe's interests in terms of our own infrastructure planning. It is a work that works better. There is, of course, potential for improvement. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises how the previous government has worked in 2013. But it is also about how the Finnish Transport Administration has been able to pay better attention to the EU's joint funding over the years. This is, of course, something to which we shall return when we in the Government express our views on the report by the Swedish National Audit Office. I also received a question from the interpeller about Norwegian relations. I would like to take this opportunity to say, not only in view of Värmland's interests, but actually in view of the interests of Sweden as a whole, that I have now, of course, had contact with Ketil, who is the Norwegian Minister for Transport, and with the Norwegian Government. There are some challenges because Norway has chosen to stay at some investments that for Sweden would be very important. However, I believe and hope that we will be able to agree on important infrastructure investments in the future. We are currently investing more than in a very long time in Sweden. That is 100 billion more in terms of infrastructure than was the case with the previous bourgeois government. This means investments in rail maintenance and road maintenance. But it also means investing in new railways. I noted that Christian Holm Barenfeld did not express approval for new high-speed rail lines. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that new main roads and new investments are necessary to meet the congestion that exists in the rail system today. Companies want to send more freight on trains. The Swedish people want to go more trains. It's tight. It would not have had to be so tight if resources had been used over the last eight years to invest in more infrastructure. But they didn't. This means that we now have a rail system that has both signal errors and exchange errors. It wears hard, and it has not been invested in investments. But it's also cramped, so we have to build a new railroad. That is why this government wants to invest in new high-speed rail links. I have said that one important part of this is to implement it across the block. It's about being able to get a broad consensus on funding – I know that Christian Holm Barenfeld's party colleagues in large parts of the country think that these are urgent initiatives. Otherwise, we will have problems in meeting the TEN-T corridors we are talking about and the objectives we have in changing infrastructure investments or transport policy so that it becomes climate sustainable. This government does not intend to hover on the target. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We are going to be a country that is capable of investing in climate technology, which makes us switch. This is the case whether we are talking about road haulage or maritime transport. This applies not least to rail initiatives. This is one of the reasons why we in the national plan will return to investments both in Värmland and throughout Sweden. We are, unlike how I thought the previous government acted, a government that really puts the interests of Sweden as a whole first. That's why we're putting out new government agencies and works all over the country. We relocate so that there will be government service throughout the country and not just in the big cities, because this is a government for the whole country, not least the beautiful Värmland.
i-b33826328b49234d-449	Madam President, I would like I agree with Tomas Eneroth's statement on the beautiful Värmland. On the other hand, we differ in many other ways. Of course, we can look back and say, as most ministers in this government do, that it was not good at the time of the alliance government and that that was when it did not happen. But if we are to have history lessons, we can go even further back and note that the former Social Democratic government, led by Göran Persson, left behind a huge maintenance deficit on the railways that the Alliance government handled. The Alliance wants to bet on the railroad. The Alliance wants to bet on the way. A future alliance government therefore wants to invest in rail, road, air and maritime transport. Perhaps it is telling that the flight was not there at all when the Minister mentioned the Traffic Act. It could be concessions. It costs to cooperate with the Green Party and the far left – we can see that. The Alliance and the Moderates are putting more money on the road than the government does. We say that we want to upgrade the rail network, but we do not want to spend huge sums on high-speed trains in southern Sweden. There are no proposals for high-speed trains north of Stockholm and Copenhagen and that part. There are probably few in Värmland or in large parts of Sweden who would call the large government move from Valhallavägen to Botkyrka for a reverse urbanisation and decentralisation – it is still a Stockholm suburb. But maybe it is for the government. But the question is: What does the government do to remedy what comes out of the Swedish National Audit Office's report – that this government is actually not so active but passive in matters relating to the EU?
i-b33826328b49234d-454	Madam President, I would like I have said that the government will return, just as it should, to the Riksdag with comments on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. I think it is valuable for the Swedish National Audit Office to make such reports. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office writes that, among other things, the bourgeois government was passive. And they think that the Government Office and the Finnish Transport Administration have been passive. Let us examine these claims and look at what efforts have been made. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office in the report says that after 2017, not least, it is a completely different level of activity when it comes to setting targets and activities in relation to the common EU objectives that we have. One reason for the inaction may be, with which I opened this debate, that the previous alliance government did not consider railway initiatives to be a priority. Whatever Christian Holm Barenfeld says, you had a finance minister in the alliance government who didn't think you should invest in rail. It's a statement he repeated several times. It could also be seen in the outcome of the maintenance debt that increased. In addition, a budget deficit of SEK 60 billion was left behind. Now we're in a different position. We no longer have the mass unemployment that Reinfeldt and Borg left behind. We have the highest level of employment ever. We have 80 billion in surplus in government finances. We can afford to invest in infrastructure, and we can spend 100 billion more. This should, of course, be done on the basis of the common European projects that exist – it is a very important part of meeting the common challenges of the whole of Europe. At the same time, it is important that there is scope for urgent efforts in Värmland, or for that matter in other parts of the country, which are not EU projects. This applies, of course, to all modes of transport. I'm the chairman of the Arlanda Council. We are now gathering major efforts to strengthen Arlanda's role and the role of Swedish aviation in the future to meet the climate challenges. Air travel, like other modes of transport, must take responsibility for the climate.
i-b33826328b49234d-459	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce the number of accidents involving EU trailers. Improving road safety is a priority for the government. Since the turn of the millennium, the number of road traffic fatalities has been more than halved. More recently, however, the decline in fatalities in road traffic accidents has halted. Against this background, the Government decided on 1 September 2016 on the New Start for the Zero Vision. On the basis of the zero vision, the government has, among other things, decided to ban the holding of mobile phones and other communication equipment in hand and referred a proposal on stricter winter tyre requirements for heavy vehicles. I share Lotta Finstorp's view that it is urgent to take seriously the issue of the involvement of so-called EU trailers in certain road accidents. More recently, problems have been identified with vehicles fitted with short tractors for semi-trailers. EU legislation on length limits for trucks means that tractors are made short in order to maximise the length of transportable goods. The short axis distance provides a worse condition to prevent the combination from folding and impairs the other longitudinal stability. I am prepared to examine the matter further and intend to raise it with the European Commission.
i-b33826328b49234d-463	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good that the Minister shares my view that it is urgent to take the issue of so-called EU trailers very seriously. There have been a number of accidents involving EU trailers, particularly on winter roads, and it is great that the Minister will raise the issue with the European Commission. There are certainly some things you could do here, such as allowing the tow truck to last longer or maybe not having a maximum or minimum length of the tow truck. I have taken advantage of the expertise and studied to try to understand this question. Now it is simply the case that the tow truck is too short, and then this happens, especially when it is bad road law. So the reason for my interpellation is the many accidents that have occurred with this combination. Recently, a man and a woman were badly injured when their car ended up under a cordless EU trailer on the E4 north of Timrå. It just became like a rat trap. The road was difficult with a lot of snow and slip. The police in Västernorrland, because it's up there you usually see these incidents, went out and said something had to be done, because it can't be like this. Now there's been a fatal accident. It is possible that this has happened in Sweden before – I do not really know – but when you looked at the reconstruction of this accident it turned out that two passenger cars ended up like a rat trap against the snow wall when the truck uncontrollably spun across the roadway and stood at almost 90 degrees angle. Only a few weeks ago I saw in Eskilstuna-Kuriren that the same thing had happened outside Kungs ör on E20. Fortunately, no other car got in the way, but in the picture was the tractor and trailer at 90 degrees. There, luckily, the center railing had received the whole blast. The traffic police in Västernorrland say that this combination of vehicles is not a winter car and that authorities and policies must somehow remedy this. That's why I've written this interpellation. Both Sweden's Åkeri company and my moderate colleague Sten Bergheden have drawn the Minister's attention to the problem and been very active in the matter, and it is among other things their knowledge that I have taken part in in order to have this interpellation debate at all. Sweden's Åkeri company and their traffic manager also tell SVT Västernorrland that when to turn press the rear end and want straight ahead, and that's when it becomes a folding knife effect. There is something wrong with the construction, especially on difficult roads and during the winter. Sweden's Åkeri company wants the police to be able, when it is bad road law, to have increased possibilities to order motor vehicles that do not have a guaranteed sufficient grip in relation to the road team to stop and wait for the repair of deficiencies. Approximately this has been done in Norway, where snow chains, for example, must be carried with them. If I haven't read it wrong, it has also made the tow truck one meter longer. Among other things, it has to do with Norway not being part of the EU; it has been able to have its own rule. In addition, one has difficult road law, perhaps more in the north-south direction in Norway than one has in Sweden, so in some way the development of this issue has progressed further. Madam President, I would like I will come back to the statistics, which are interesting.
i-b33826328b49234d-473	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! I think the issue is urgent, and that is also one of the reasons why I myself have chosen to draw attention to this. The issue is largely regulated at European level, and that is what makes us have to go through the European Commission. I also think that the connection that Lotta Finstorp makes to the Norwegian regulatory framework, where a different application has been chosen, is interesting. Of course, you can do it on the basis that you are not a member of the EU, but it is also the case that Norway has a law on winter tires, which Sweden has missed until now, soon. I have, of course, been critical of the fact that the winter tyre requirements for heavy vehicles have not previously been regulated more than on the rear axle or the drive axle. That is one of the reasons why I and our government want to come forward with a proposal on winter tyre requirements on all wheels and also on the trailer. We see that here there is a significant difference between foreign vehicles and Swedish vehicles: Foreign vehicles have to a lesser extent winter tyres. If this proposal goes through, we will have a system of control. On Swedish soil, when it is winter roads, or the times prescribed, you should have winter tires on all wheels, just like Lotta Finstorp and I certainly have on our vehicles. This is important because heavy duty vehicles can also cause major problems in traffic. Not long ago we could see queues on E4 at Jönköping, where heavy vehicles blocked the roads. According to Radio Jönköping, one of the reasons was that the vehicles did not have suitable tyres. It is therefore important that we now have legislation that also imposes requirements on tyre quality. This is how we can move forward with the EU trailer and, of course, we can also constantly continue the improvement work that exists with regard to winter roads. This is also about foreign hauliers and the temporary cabotage traffic that takes place through our countries. This government, unlike the previous one, has taken a number of initiatives, including allowing the police to lock the wheels of a truck that violates cabotage rules for 24 hours. That's what we're going to move on to 36 hours. We have imposed sanctions of over 40 000 SEK if you break the cabotage rules, we have given the police 25 million extra annually to increase cabotage controls and we have revised the sanctions for driving and rest times so that anyone who systematically violates them can suffer quite severe fines. It is of course important that those who drive these heavy transports are rested, that they are not, as we have seen in media data, put into almost slave-like contracts where they are used terribly and have to sleep over in their cabin and yet are expected to drive heavy transport on Swedish roads. That is not acceptable. That is why we are also working within the framework of something called the Road Alliance, which is a cooperation between several EU countries in which we are trying to bring about a changed and improved regulation of cabotage transport. These negotiations are currently taking place during the spring and summer. The ambition is that we will be ready for the summer, and I hope and drive from the Swedish side that we will get much tougher rules for cabotage transport. Of course, foreign hauliers should also be able to enter Swedish territory, but you should follow the rules and not break them. You're supposed to be safe from traffic. We do not want to end up in a situation where osjy's best conditions pose challenges and problems for Swedish haulage industry. These are proposals that I know have strong support from the haulage industry and serious haulage companies in Sweden, and they are proposals that mean that we can say that Swedish conditions should apply in Sweden. Cabotage transport is supposed to be temporary, and we're going to fight letterbox companies that some people use. Basically, it is a matter of political responsibility. We take that responsibility in terms of road safety, in terms of transport and in terms of the serious haulage industry and its competitive potential.
i-b33826328b49234d-485	Madam President, I would like We have a very broad consensus on these issues, where the alliance government also did a lot and where you have continued to work on the issues. It can always get better, but at the same time, as the Minister says, we must also have regulations that do not prevent foreign companies and hauliers from coming here. Our haulage companies must also be able to run cabotage in other countries. There must be reciprocity. Many of the measures that the Minister has listed that the government has taken are the need for more traffic police. Sweden's Åkeri company believes that it should be able to check when a foreign truck enters Sweden and in some way say from the traffic police that this car is not able to drive on our road team in Sweden. Then it also requires traffic police. I'm on the R.E.C.D., and the question of traffic police is constantly coming up. Among other things, there have been large retirements among the competent traffic police. The skills have disappeared, there are few on growth and it takes a long time to become a good traffic police officer. There I see a great danger that controls cannot be carried out. No matter how much legislation there is, there must be those who can verify compliance with the rules and impose sanctions. In Norway there is a lot of research on drift tyres, studded tyres, chains, accident statistics and so on. If we are to push the issue of EU trailers and tackle the major problem, there must be accident statistics that do not just serve as an umbrella. Today the category of heavy-duty vehicles is involved, but it does not say what kind of vehicles it is. I think the statistics need to be broken down. Only then can we begin to analyse what measures are needed to prevent accidents. We are all keen to continue working on the zero vision, and it is a new phenomenon that attention has been paid to the fact that EU trailers are involved in many incidents. But there are no statistics on when it is precisely EU trailers that have caused an accident. You could at least start by dividing the statistics so that you get black on white what has happened. At nyteknik.se, two researchers, including Johan Granlund, road engineering expert at WSP, have done a simulation, an animation, of an EU trailer driving. Perhaps the minister has seen the animation. It shows how the trailer starts to throw back and forth. The trailer takes the whole tow truck to the side. It becomes so incredibly clear that the poor driver cannot pair the fluctuations, and the accident is a fact. Splitting the statistics is a concrete, practical thing that should be easy to do. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. The simulated truck accident that nyteknik.se has done shows why shorter EU-trailers cause more accidents on Nordic winter roads than the longer Swedish combination. That's the heart of the matter.
i-b33826328b49234d-492	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there is potential for improvement in terms of statistics. I myself recently looked for similar data, and I noted that it was almost possible to go into the respective police investigation in order to obtain data. Of course, it is not the case that we should end up in a situation where we burden the police with more statistical data. The police are busy prosecuting crime and investigating crime. If we are to strengthen the surveillance of, and the efforts for, for example, cabotage transport in the future, or for that matter, road safety work, we need to think in a way that meets both the police's demands for efficiency in the efforts they make and how we can otherwise relieve the police. I will give an example that I am sure Lotta Finstorp will appreciate and also many others who follow this debate. When we now want to introduce automated booms for alcohol controls in ports, for example, where heavier combinations come in, and you have to blow to get into Swedish roads, a flexible model can relieve the police controls very significantly. In this way, we can both increase safety on our roads and, at the same time, ensure that the police make the best use of their resources. This is an idea that MHF has worked with for a long time. I really appreciate the strong commitment that exists within MHF and NTF to the issues and that we are thinking about how we can help and support the police. A new generation of road safety workers will be needed. It is a demographic challenge; it is seen in many professions, not least the traffic police. I think that is also necessary for another reason. Road safety work has so far largely concerned alcohol, speed, crash safety, tyre legislation and so on. In my work as Minister of Infrastructure, I am pleased to see connected and self-driving vehicles. It is, of course, the case that within reach there is a completely different technology that will allow vehicles to drive significantly more legally. Self-driving vehicles comply with the speed requirements. They drive where they're supposed to drive. There is a great potential to do a lot of road safety work using new technologies. There are unimagined opportunities here to have a safer traffic environment, but it will cost. This will mean that in the budgets of our various parties – I in the government – we must allocate resources to this technological development. The topside means that we can work in a completely different way than before to prevent serious accidents and fatal accidents. Zero vision is moving in the right direction. In 2017, we had the lowest number of road deaths and injuries ever. Sweden is an example in the world, but it also means that when the world looks at us, we will take the next step. I will take the next step at the Swedish level, hopefully in broad agreement with clear efforts to increase road safety, and also on issues of mobile telephony, winter tires and alco-boms. However, certain things must also be agreed jointly within the European Union. That is one of the reasons why I want to raise the issue with the European Commission about the folding knife effect on these trailers. This is of course extremely worrying, and I am therefore also prepared to act. I appreciate, once again, Lotta Finstorp's commitment to this issue. It is excellent that more people are pushing the question.
i-b33826328b49234d-501	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister is so committed to this issue, and it is hopeful. In fact, I believe that the relatives of those who died outside Timrå are listening to the debate today. The initiative for the debate came from them to me; it was familiar with the accident. It is hopeful that the Minister will take the matter with him to the European Commission. I really am a friend of the European Union, but sometimes it feels so slow that it is not possible to change something that feels urgent at home. We have come so much further in terms of zero vision in Sweden than many other EU countries have done. Among other things, it is conceivable that the whole of the EU should stop limiting the length of tractors. The length of the entire combination would be important, not how long the towing truck should be. I do not know; perhaps it is something that the Minister can raise in the discussions with the European Commission. It would be interesting to hear the reaction to such a discussion. Johan Granlund and Per Thomson did the animation, and now I have mentioned their names properly. It is clear in the animation how crazy it gets when the tow truck is so short. Even I, who have gone humanistically and have not read technology, understand that it is not possible to have a truck that looks like that. But the aim is to take advantage of the overall length, and then the tow truck has been made shorter to be able to load more. But it can't be like that. I have also considered the issue of statistics. In Norway there is the Safe Foreign Transport research project, and there is the car carrier data that forms the basis for the legislation that exists today.
i-b33826328b49234d-505	Madam President, I would like We have a broad consensus on the issues. The government is currently taking many initiatives in the area of road safety, and this is for the foreseeable future. We cannot sit back just because Sweden is the world leader. Last year, 255 people were killed in traffic, and many more were injured. That is not acceptable. The automotive industry in Sweden today takes a major responsibility to develop increasingly safer cars to protect those who are in the car and those who are at risk of getting involved in an accident. We are taking greater responsibility by investing in middle separation, in safer roads, in tougher legislation, but we must also ensure that in all other ways we do what we can to promote a safe traffic environment. There are suggestions for which I regularly advertise, namely to keep my hands on the steering wheel and not to text and write when driving, that all tyres should be winter tires on heavy vehicles, buses, trucks and trailers, and automated alcohol controls to prevent people from driving drunk. These are important efforts along with better road maintenance and safer roads. That way we can save lives. Of course, I will have it as an argument when I talk to the European Commission in relation to the EU trailer. I will come back to technical solutions and what regulation should look like because there are a number of different views on this. I will ensure that we increase controls on cabotage transport in general because we know that safety work is not as high a priority in other countries. There are vehicles entering Swedish roads today that are substandard. That is not acceptable. Their control must be stepped up, but above all we must have legislation that gives the police the right tools to be able to act. There we are doing a lot of good things right now, and I'm very proud of that.
