i-7b72faf9826821ef-2	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Swedish signal reconnaissance is an important component in safeguarding national security, both against external threats from foreign power and against potential terrorist activities. I am sure there are no differences of opinion there. It is always a constant balancing act to safeguard the integrity of the individual citizen, and lively discussions followed by the introduction of the so-called FRA law a number of years ago. The whole subject area is controversial and is treated with great care. It should be able to operate with continued trust from the people, and it is doing well today, as far as I know. The FRA has an extremely important function. The committee has visited them a number of times, and I am impressed by the professionalism of the FRA. It's very satisfying to be there listening to the professionals. The Act on Signalling in Defence Intelligence entered into force in 2009, and it limits the number of authorities that have the right to target signal intelligence. It is now open to the identification, development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, war material and dual-use items, and more. On the other hand, the Inspection of Strategic Products has not had the right to focus signal intelligence from the FRA in order to achieve the purpose. To date, such focus has only been stated by the Government and the Government Office, the Swedish Armed Forces, Säpo and Noah – if I am right. What is now being proposed, according to the majority of committees, which includes the Swedish Democrats, is to be able to provide society and citizens with the security they have the right to demand in a more effective way. The committee proposes that the government review a return to the order that prevailed when the law was first adopted, that is to say, to give the ISP the right to indicate the direction of signal intelligence. The change is about ISP, the Inspection of Strategic Products. Sweden has a fantastic defence industry. The export of defence equipment makes our industry strong enough to produce important equipment systems for the Swedish defence. Several of the domestically produced materials have national security interests. As far as we are concerned, we do not want to see a reduction in exports of defence equipment; on the contrary, we want an increase. But it is important that export control works well, and Sweden has one of the world's strongest and most stringent export controls. It is Japan that has stricter control. Swedish control does not need to be stricter, but it should be thorough. The Swedish Democrats support that the ISP should focus the FRA to provide good intelligence in this area too. The State's inspection of defence intelligence activities, Siun, exercises some control over the application of the law. There is a committee, but in our view it suffers from inadequate parliamentary control. Every year we have exercised that the number of members should be increased so that the Swedish Democrats can also participate, listen and take part in what is said in a completely different way. That is why we have proposed in our motion that the number of Members should be increased. Now there is a judge and a lawyer, and the other five Members you share. But we're not in. We have year after year wondered why we are not allowed to attend. I would like you to answer the question. What's wrong with adding another member so that the Swedish Democrats, one of the biggest opposition parties, can join? I would like you to answer the question. That is our main point, apart from that of the majority of committees. Why don't you think about and answer why you don't want the Swedish Democrats to be on the board?
i-7b72faf9826821ef-11	Mr President, I would like to The so-called FRA Act has granted the Defence Radio Institution the right to extensive interception of internet traffic. The Left Party has been and is still strongly opposed to the FRA Act and has pushed for its repeal, including through several parliamentary movements. We are not prepared to compromise personal integrity in the way that legislation allows. When the contested law was adopted in 2008, it could only be piloted through the Riksdag after several control mechanisms were built on to reassure a concerned and critical public. We believe that there are good reasons to maintain strict legislation in the field of signal reconnaissance. We look forward to seeing the investigation set up by the Government, which will review the legislation applicable to personal data processing within the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Radio Agency. The investigation will be submitted in May 2018, and we will most likely have reason to return to the issue. The majority of the Committee on Defence supports a motion by Hans Wallmark, the Moderates, to extend the focus of signal reconnaissance to the ISP, including to monitor the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It may at first glance appear to be worthwhile, but we do not believe that there is a need to allow another authority to direct signal intelligence. The committee notes that signalling can already be carried out today in order to identify the development and spread of nuclear weapons, among other things. However, since 2009, ISP no longer has the mandate to focus FRA signals intelligence activities. On the other hand, cooperation between authorities on non-proliferation issues takes place through a cooperation council linked to the ISP. The ISP also states that cooperation with the relevant authorities is continuing to develop. In view of this, I do not currently see any reason to take action to allow another authority to focus signal intelligence. The Left Party considers it extremely important that Sweden step up its work on global disarmament, particularly in the field of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. It is therefore of the utmost importance that Sweden sign the UN Convention on Nuclear Weapons. It is an initiative which, among others, Mr Wallmark has opposed, with reference to Sweden's cooperation with NATO. The Left Party has raised a number of motions in the Riksdag aimed at halting the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Among other things, we want to see a clear and unambiguous ban on the introduction and transit of nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. We also want to see both the Nordic countries and the rest of Europe as a nuclear-free zone. The parties that are serious about combating the proliferation of nuclear weapons are more than welcome to support our proposals and demands. I would like to express my support for reservation No 2.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-17	Mr President, I would like to The reason for the debate we are having today is that we receive an annual report on the audit activities sent to the Government by the State Inspection for Defence Intelligence. In 2016, as in the present case, control activities of normal scope have been ongoing. There are 33 reviews carried out by Siun, and in no case has there been any reason to criticise the activities of the Defence Radio Institute. When that happens, Mr President, the opponents of the so-called FRA law tend to say: There are no comments – it is evidence that the control activities are not working. On the other hand, when some years of comment are made, the conclusion is exactly the same: And that's how you get criticism for it. It is even ten years ago, Mr President, that the so-called FRA law was created here in the Swedish Parliament. It was, as the previous speaker has been, incredibly controversial and led to widespread protests that appeared both inside and outside the Riksdag House. But in the light of the security policy developments that have been since 2008, I think most people today are still grateful that Sweden took this step and again got a working signal scan. These days, non-proliferation issues are very topical. From Syria there are almost weekly reports of suspected use of weapons of mass destruction, mainly chemical ones. Today, Mr President, the world is concerned by what has happened in Britain. Apparently, nerve venom has entered the country and caused at least two people life threatening injuries. I don't need to continue the list with North Korea. Non-proliferation issues are very topical, and there is reason to be very concerned about the lack of enthusiasm that currently characterises disarmament issues in the world. The fact that the main non-proliferation authority is not in a position to use effective intelligence tools is, in my view, quite serious. I am pleased that the Committee on Defence now, in relatively large political agreement, is making the government aware that the ISP needs to have these tools at its disposal. I would add, Mr President, that on non-proliferation issues in particular, I believe that this issue of personal integrity is something less important than that of the police and security police. Roger Richtoff asks why the Swedish Democrats do not get a seat in Siun. It is not only the Swedish Democrats who do not fit in Siun. There are other parties too. There are five seats for nomination from the political parties, and those members are appointed in exactly the same way as in all other bodies within and outside the Riksdag. Of course, the Left Party takes the chance when it can and says that Sweden should accede to the so-called Nuclear Weapons Convention. That is not really the subject of the day, Mr President, but let me say that the very important bilateral and multilateral defence and security cooperation that Sweden has with other Western democracies would suffer great harm from our accession to this convention. For example, I think it would have been completely impossible to carry out the great military exercise that took place in September 2017, namely the Aurora exercise.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-26	Mr President, I would like to We can, of course, discuss a little about the Members of the Siun. You see it as two blocks. One has the red-green, and the other has the opposition. My view – although not shared by Allan Widman – is that they alternate in the Alliance in the latter places, and we are not invited to participate in the rotation and thus be able to attend the Board. There may be reasons for this, but if you're going to get a broad understanding of the work done here – we think it's a great business – I think you should be prepared to review this. Perhaps you should expand so that each party can have a permanent place. It may involve other practical problems that I do not see right here and now, but a change should be made. Either we sit together and do the distribution and vary it here or we have meetings afterwards, where we together go through what happened at the meeting in the board and thus spread the knowledge that you others have in a different way. I think you should consider this and discuss a change so that we have an increased opportunity to be present if we want to.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-30	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps a little in the nature of the matter that Mr Siun's Members have access to the most sensitive information available within the framework of the authorities responsible for defence and security policy, and it is clear that such a assembly cannot be as large as it should be. Having said that, Mr President, Roger Richtoff and his party colleagues often return to the fact that the Swedish Democrats are the third bloc. That block is what I still understand not large enough to be able to claim when these seats are distributed, but they are distributed in the same way through the voting cooperation that takes place within the various blocks. It is the same in all other areas within the bodies of trust that we have within and outside the Riksdag.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-32	Mr President, I would like to I understand there's a reason we're not in. But even if it were classified information of a high nature, should I take it that the Left Party and the Green Party are more credible to be on the board? Can they handle this qualified secret information better? At least we are Parliament's third largest party. Even if it hasn't gone through to everyone, it's actually like that. The third largest party in Parliament with all its members has no transparency and no place in Siun. We think that is wrong, and we want to change that. There we obviously have different opinions, but we will continue to fight for this.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-34	Mr President, I would like to I have answered Roger Richtoff's question. It is not about which party is at stake. It is about us following exactly the same rules as in all other contexts and that the third block, as the Swedish Democrats usually call itself, is not big enough to claim representation in a board that contains only five political members. This is something you don't get from. Then, Mr President, it does not fall to me to make any assessments at all of the people on the board or how they have been declared security. This is a task for our defence and security authorities.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-36	Mr President, I would like to Then we are once again gathered to discuss the protection of privacy when signaling in defence intelligence activities, an annual event in this House. Let me start at this end, Mr President: intelligence is important. It is important for a nation to understand what is happening in the outside world. It is one way of preparing for the changes and developments that are taking place. It is a way of preventing and preventing different conflicts and crises, and it is of course part of the international collaboration that Sweden participates in with other countries. It's collected in different ways. We can use our flight or our signal reconnaissance vessels. It is gratifying to be able to say today that week 9, when the Stockholms have time off but the rest of the world is working, the first plates on the Polish shipyard were cut to the new signal reconnaissance vessel that will serve in the Swedish organisation. So some things are happening, and I think that is a good thing. The knowledge that is collected is of course important for the Swedish ability to defend themselves. It is a way for our submarine crews and combat pilots to know what could meet them, so of course it has an extremely important function. Above all, it is about defending the democratic and civil rights that we stand for. Mr President, I would like to Fibre tapping has always been discussed. Of course, personal integrity must be protected, and there is also a large and strong regulatory framework on this. If both receivers and transmitters are within the borders of the realm, it must not happen, but there must be a connection with abroad. This is clearly regulated in the legislation we have. It is also regulated which authorities are allowed to work on this. It is the Government, the Government Office, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Security Service and the National Operations Department of the Police Authority. Today it is not just follow-up and scrutiny that we are discussing, but also the exercise in this area. The Moderate Party has tabled a motion on which authorities should be able to call it off. It is a pretty good motion, which is about ISP, the Inspection for Strategic Products, being able to work with what is about the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and war-related products. In my world, this is quite wise, and from a social democratic point of view we support the announcement. We think it is a good proposal. Finally, Mr President, this review was carried out during the year of the Defence Intelligence Inspection. They have reviewed this in accordance with the laws and regulations we have. It may be important to point out that no remark has been made, but this has been done according to the regulatory framework. With those words, I take the opportunity to call for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-45	Mr President, I would like to I've said it before, and I'll say it again: without reconnaissance, no idea. It may seem to be a worn-out expression, but without the important work of the employees of our intelligence services, the national security and the situation of our citizens, within our borders but also outside, where, for various reasons, they live and work, for example, as employees of companies or as participants in voluntary, rescue or peace operations, had been very uncertain. It is an absolute necessity for the nation of Sweden to have a well-functioning intelligence service. Basically, it is about our security, our freedom and, above all, our independence. Your own information is the only one you can trust 100%. And at a time of deteriorating security, information and fake news, the need for accurate information is greater than ever. Mr President, I would like to After all, we are here in this House to debate the Defence Committee's report No 5, which responds to the Government's annual letter on the defence radio institution's signal reconnaissance in 2016. Since the law on signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities – the Signal Search Act or the FRA Act, as it is abbreviated – was adopted on 1 January 2009, signal intelligence is subject to both licensing and extensive control. It was not the case that prior to the advent of the Signal Search Team there was no intelligence recovery practice. At the same time, there was strong internal control within the agency, as has also been demonstrated in the current control body, the Privacy Protection Council. I have worked in the prison for ten years and also bumped on the present ship, which is now being replaced with joy, and I can vouch for it because you had good control of this. However, given the necessary opportunity to also look in the thread, the agency itself pointed out that a regulatory framework was needed for this. It's about both belt and braces, you might say. Why? Well, signal reconnaissance is by definition an intrusion into an individual's privacy. Intelligence retrieval can be carried out by anyone – openly or secretly, legally or illegally. However, in the rule of law, it is extremely important that, when the state conducts intelligence collection, there is a regulatory framework on this so that the individual's rights are taken into account. Mr President, I would like to In its report, the Committee on Defence once again notes, on the basis of the Government's letter, that neither Siun, the State's inspection of defence intelligence activities, nor the FRA's Privacy Protection Council have made any comments or suggestions for action. Following the intrigue at the beginning of both licence providers and control bodies, we have now been able to note over a period of years that the monitoring and monitoring of signal intelligence are working well. However, there is nothing that cannot be improved, and the government has now, according to a previous agreement, initiated an in-depth follow-up of the legislation in order to follow technical and legal developments. Mr President, I would like to On the last point, I would like to go into a little bit of the announcement made by a majority committee in the report to the government. As you know, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a growing problem in a world characterised by increasing security policy uncertainty. Sweden has for decades actively contributed to international security and stability, not least in terms of anti-proliferation efforts. It is therefore important that the conditions for this work are optimal. The responsibility for authorising and supervising arms and dual-use items and constituting the national authority for the Chemical Weapons Convention lies with the ISP. Until the adoption of the Law on Signalling in Defence Intelligence activities in 2009, the Authority had the opportunity to focus FRA's signal intelligence for its specific needs. However, as a result of the agreement reached on the FRA law, that possibility was removed. The fact that the ISP is not allowed to direct signal intelligence itself today in order to fulfil its mission poses problems on several levels. You are referred to intelligence information in the second place in the form of reports from other authorities and therefore you cannot specifically point out what is important for your own control and verification mission. The ability to work proactively instead of reactively is currently also limited. This restriction makes it more difficult for Sweden to meet its commitments in a number of international export control arrangements, the aim of which is to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. This is obviously not satisfactory. It is a good thing that the Privacy Protection Act was strengthened in 2009, but the law needs to be clearly modified in view of the development of the world around it. In view of this, Mr President, the undersigned initiated this proposal and, together with the other Moderates and the Alliance in committee, we put forward the proposal to re-establish the right of ISP to target signal intelligence. I am pleased to note that a majority of the other parties in the committee also support this and make a statement to the government to give the authority back the right to focus signal intelligence. Mr President, I would like to With this in mind, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Defence to be approved in report No 5.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-57	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure Annicka Engblom knows what I'm going to ask. I thought I'd get the answer here, but I didn't. I have just received the answer from a Member and I know exactly what it is like. We proposed a change in the transparency we do not now have on the Board. As far as the Security and Privacy Protection Board is concerned, this has been done. That is where we have transparency. I would like to know: why do the Moderates not want to discuss a change so that all parties have the opportunity to have members of the Board in order to have broader transparency than today? We do not have any transparency today, because you are distributing the seats after the blocks. We know what it's like, but we want a change. How do you, Annicka Engblom, and the Moderates view this?
i-7b72faf9826821ef-60	Mr President, I would like to As Roger Richtoff himself says, in a previous correspondence with Mr Widman, he has received an answer to his question. The Moderates share the view expressed by Allan Widman.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-61	Mr President, I would like to I know we have a system. There we are now proposing a change. Should I interpret the answer as saying once again that the Moderates do not want a change and therefore do not want to allow one of the largest parliamentary parties to be transparent in the board?
i-7b72faf9826821ef-62	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Roger Richtoff will interpret it exactly as Allan Widman put it in his answer. Five seats have been allocated to political Members, and they are allocated according to the rules that exist today. The Moderates have no different opinion.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-63	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing issues relating to the protection of privacy in signalling in defence intelligence activities. The question of how we deal with the balance between civil liberties on the one hand and our common security on the other is a constant balance for politicians. That is why it is also appropriate that we constantly discuss the issues, and I am pleased that this is an annual letter. It is when one of the perspectives is forgotten that our problems arise. We also learn this from historical examples. The IB affair is a good example, in which security thinking interfered with citizens' rights. The registration of thousands of Swedes in the 1960s and 1970s was one of the more serious legal scandals in Sweden's history. Symptomatic of what happened at the time was that the organisation IB lacked transparency by politicians as well as other independent reviewers. Sweden has learned from this mistake. Today, we are working quite differently to ensure the balance between rights and security. Siun and the FRA Transparency Council are two examples of how such a search works today. By critically examining, proposing amendments and, in the event of serious deficiencies, reporting crimes or reporting to the government, we ensure that the issue of privacy and rights is never forgotten or obscured in our intelligence service. This does not mean that everything works flawlessly, and Mr Siun has also made comments. But as long as politics takes privacy issues seriously and as long as Siun and others do their job as independent reviewers, the conditions for ensuring the balance between citizens' freedom and national security are far better today. In this year's review, Mr Siun made no comments on shortcomings, which should be seen as positive. I hope that the policy will enable the authorities to continue their important investigation work, which lays the foundations for trust between intelligence and citizens. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-69	Mr President, I would like to Intelligence is crucial today with deteriorating security, grey zone problems, antagonistic forces and foreign states engaged in information warfare and espionage in various forms, including towards our country. Several reports in recent years have shown that our society's work on information and cyber security needs to be properly developed. It is serious that the shortcomings are so great. As the FRA has repeatedly shown in its annual reports, the safety of our Swedish authorities and companies is not in line with the threats we see. We have actively participated in the development of defence agreements that will give society's information and cyber security more money in the coming years. This is important as vulnerability increases in our society and an increasing number of businesses and people depend on functioning electronics, digital connectivity and e-services. The defense committee's latest report on the development of the total defence raises these issues in a clear way. This is a field that we need to work on a lot. It is also about our work in Parliament in the near future and in the long term. According to MSB, approximately 10,000 cyber attacks are targeted at Sweden every month. There is industrial espionage. There are terrorist threats and attacks on socially important activities and infrastructure. This must be prevented and prevented in the best possible way. We must prevent accidents and serious incidents in our country. We want to see strategies for a skills boost for cyber security, not least in organisations that carry out socially important activities. We also see that the governance in relation to the country's municipalities needs to be clarified. Not least, many people need to be more involved in the systematic cybersecurity work around our country. Knowledge of what the laws say also needs to be increased in many contexts. This is particularly clear after last year's reports on the events in the Swedish Transport Agency. We cannot help but see that these are important management issues. It requires commitment and constant development. Good cyber and information security work requires special expertise in many areas, both crypto and signal protection. Our work in the state is very important. The FRA has a very important function in contributing to the overall defence capabilities and also in the long term developing how this should be carried out. We must combat new types of attacks and terrorism, but we must also ensure that people's personal integrity and right to privacy are not curtailed. The report and the letter we have received this year are very important and also provide clear information on how the work is carried out and where we stand in these important areas. According to the Signal Stocking Act, the authority that the Government decides may obtain signals in electronic form during signal scanning. It is important that this should continue, also in order to ensure security. It is also important that it be examined. I think that the descriptions of the audits carried out show that there is a very serious and thorough work also being done to develop the business. Mr President, I would like to None of the reviews has led to further comments or suggestions to the FRA. Nor has it been decided that any collection should be interrupted or that there should be destruction of the recording or recording of information. Even when it comes to the control of the traffic and communications of individuals, we see that the whole thing is done well. It has also decreased compared to previous years. So we have effective privacy protection. It is also a field that requires an important commitment forward in order for us to closely monitor developments also in relation to our environment, where the threat picture is constantly changing and the complexity is increasing. The need for expertise to deal with what is happening in the outside world needs to be ensured. That is why the committee's proposal for an announcement is important. The Center Party supports the committee's proposal for a decision. We also see that this is an area that needs to be prioritised for Sweden's defence and protection for the future.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-83	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment MJU13 on fisheries policy. We support our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 13. The objective of the EU Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture are environmentally sustainable in the long term and managed with the objectives of economic, social, employment and food security. Quotation is a tool for achieving the objective of sustainable fisheries, but it is only one of several tools. For example, tool limitations and time and space limitations are other important tools. There is also a need for a control system that is effective, effective and adapted to the common fisheries policy. Continuous monitoring is important for assessing the impact of fishing on the ecosystem. Monitoring is ensured, inter alia, by the traceability system that has been put in place. The Agency is now developing an electronic traceability system that allows monitoring of fish from catch to sale. The system covers several species for which the stock situation is critical. Fisheries control underwent a change in 2016, which means that the activities are conducted on the basis of a risk-based approach. This means that the focus is on those parts of the fishery where the Authority considers that the risk of non-compliance is greatest. According to the Government, the first year's work shows positive results. The development of the Swedish fishing industry is highly dependent on the common fisheries policy. It is therefore essential that good conditions for the development of professional fishing are ensured, not only at local and national level, but also at European level. Mr President, I would like to Small-scale coastal professional fishing is of great importance to many towns along the Swedish coast. It provides an opportunity for growth and local development. Swedish fishing is dominated by small businesses, which are constantly decreasing in number. It is regrettable, because professional fishing contributes to a vibrant countryside, coast and archipelago. Jobs are created both in fishing and in the processing industry. This also provides jobs in industry, workshops, tourism and tourism. Fishing is a prerequisite for achieving the environmental quality objective of living coasts and archipelagos. It also becomes part of the district's identity. But coastal fishing has great challenges. One is the increased strain of seal, which causes great damage. Many work with different types of seal-proof gear, but this is so far at the experimental stage and does not currently replace traditional fishing. Direct seal damage in the tools is estimated at over SEK 30 million per year. In addition, there are many indirect costs, such as the need for fishermen to abandon fishing grounds and reduced life expectancy of the gears. We also need to think about how we use the raw material. 60% of the fish caught goes to feed. Sweden is one of the countries where most fish are eaten. But despite our long coastline and our many lakes and streams, most of the fish we eat is imported. One figure mentioned is 80%. We need to develop the processing industry to bring up the value of the raw material fish. However, the processing industry depends on continuous landing of fish. It is therefore important that we support small-scale coastal fishing so that it continues to develop. Here, the Agency's work on regulatory simplification, simplification of regulations and other legislation can be part of it. But also their work with handling, service, collaboration with the industry, supervision and control is an important part. Mr President, I would like to 80% of the fish we eat is, as I said, imported. And of the imported fish about 50 percent is cultivated. Cultivated fish are probably the food production that grows most globally. In Sweden fish farming is so far less common than in our neighbouring countries. We have simply not had that tradition, but we have great opportunities to increase aquaculture. However, there are some disadvantages to fish farming at sea. Feed residues and faecal matter not collected contribute to eutrophication. It also provides oxygen-free bottoms during the cultivation cases. But there are alternatives, and here we are at the forefront of Sweden in terms of biological research and technical know-how. It looks at limiting environmental emissions and at developing sustainable feed sources. Aquaculture – it is also called aquaculture – is the cultivation of aquatic animals and plants, such as fish, bivalve molluscs, crustaceans and algae. The fish, mussels and crustaceans are grown in closed systems and receive a feed that is largely plant-based. This is healthy and environmentally smart food that is rich in vitamins and minerals, and it is a resource-efficient protein source. If the world's population is to continue to eat fish in the same way as today, wild caught fish need to be supplemented with farmed fish. Already today, almost every other fish that is eaten is farmed. Aquaculture is a future industry with great potential. It can also be carried out throughout the country – both in urban and rural areas. This is a growing industry. In the future, we may buy fish that are grown very close to us. Mr President, I would like to Several measures have been taken in recent years to strengthen the development of aquaculture. Under the leadership of the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the industry, researchers, stakeholder organisations and authorities have developed a strategy for aquaculture: Strategy 2012 – 2020. Aquaculture of fish, crustaceans or molluscs is subject to authorisation under fisheries legislation. It may also be necessary to apply for a permit for environmentally hazardous activities, depending on the feed consumption of fish farming. In January 2016, the Government decided on a new industrialisation strategy to promote digitalized, innovative and sustainable production in Sweden. In the strategy's action plan, the government puts forward proposals. These include more effective environmental permit testing, statistics on environmental testing times and proposals for faster trials. It is also proposed to set up a reference group made up of representatives of industry in order to establish a continuous dialogue on improvements. Finally, I want to talk about the eel. The eel is one of the oldest animals on our planet. It probably existed 200 million years ago. It has always been regarded as a mysterious fish, mainly because no eel with eggs or milk has been found, and no one has been able to document eel. The eels play and are born in the Sargasso Sea, more than 600 km from Sweden. Both American and European eels are born there. The journey to Europe takes about three years, and shortly after arrival the larvae turn into glass eels. How old the eel gets, you don't really know, but you agree that it can get very old. The eel that spawns from the Baltic Sea to the Sargasso Sea, through Öresund, is between 5 and 30 years old. The eel has been classified as under immediate threat, and it has been so since 2005. The requirement for eel fishing permits is an important part of the management. We in Parliament highlight the advice of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea in every negotiation with the EU. Its advice is to introduce a total eel stop. There are also several motions underlining the importance of scientific advice as the basis for fishing opportunities. Despite this, there are parties who want you to inherit the eel fishing rights. What other type of fishing can you inherit the fishing rights? No, it requires different permits, professional fishing license and more. If we want a living eel culture, we need to have live eel. As a grandmother, I want my grandchildren also to have a chance to experience the eel culture. They will if we protect it.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-98	Mr President, I would like to Fisheries policy is important for Sweden and for the European Union. As a moderate Member of Parliament, I am pleased that the reform of the common fisheries policy has taken place at EU level. Without it, overfishing could have continued and escalated. An entire Swedish profession had seen the nets become increasingly empty until one would finally have had to look around after selling the boat. Biodiversity had continued to decline at the same rate, and ecosystem disruptions had been significant. But we're not done. The common fisheries policy is a common base, not a finished project. The Swedish Government must now act in order for the regulations to be implemented in all Member States and that they do so without unnecessary regulatory hassle, gold-plating and divergent interpretations. We need a discard ban, and we need a system of rules that can be complied with as fishermen. There is still much work to be done here, including the weighing of catches. Impossible regulations do not benefit anyone. Mr President, I would like to If the fishing industry is to be able to live, develop and thrive, strong fish stocks are needed. This leads not only to good food on the plate but also to biodiversity and ecosystems in balance. In order to achieve this, long-term management plans based on scientific evidence are required to provide predictability of fishing opportunities. In the light of this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5. Mr President, I would like to The report proposes two announcements. One is the regulatory framework that surrounds aquaculture, i.e. mainly fish, algae and mussel farms, something that Mr Haider fully benefited from. Here the government has said that it wants to work for the development of the industry, and it is also mentioned briefly in the food strategy. But the concrete work is lagging behind. In fact, during this term of office, the government has presented only one proposal relating to fisheries and aquaculture. We still have to consider that a little weak. The second announcement concerns a more effective monitoring system in the fisheries sector. Here it is clear to us in the Alliance that there are shortcomings that make it difficult to assess the need for conservation measures and resource use. There is, among other things, a lack of catch statistics. There is a need for more sample fish, more studies and more evaluations. This is a reform area that needs attention if we are to deal with things such as overfishing, obstacles to migration and marine litter. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would also like to mention the challenge of fishing in the archipelago. For example, in the archipelago surrounding us here, the Stockholm archipelago, there are over 5,000 grey seals and a growing stock of cormorants. Often we talk only about numbers, but I would say that other things also matter. The seals here show very good confidence when they pull the belly in the mud in the shallow pike bays and eat playing pike. In turn, the cormorants in Sweden eat about 25 million kilos of fish annually. This will be a rather dangerous mix for an archipelago that should be alive and sustainable. Investments in playgrounds and pike factories have become a rather expensive feeding of seals and cormorants instead of contributing to the living archipelago as it was originally intended. Fishing guides, which provide many jobs, can of course change fishing waters by simply taking up the boat and changing the area to Hjälmaren, Mälaren and other lakes. But then, guest nights, prepared meals and confidence in the future disappear from our archipelagos. It is distressing that the government has done no more to reverse this trend. Mr President, I would like to Let me also mention a species that we need to give more attention. The Baltic cod, i.e. cod living in the eastern stock, has several major and significant challenges. In addition to intensive fishing from Germany, Poland and Denmark, there are biological disturbances that we need to take seriously. One of them is that cod seems to have completely stopped growing. Older cod look like younger cod, and the younger cod look like herring. This is problematic, not only because it means that fishermen need to take up more fish and work more and more hours to get into the quotas, but also because if cod in the eastern stock dies out, it cannot be replaced by implantation. The Baltic cod has been genetically adapted to the temperature and salinity and can therefore almost be regarded as a species of its own. In our waters, for example, closer to Skåne, cod meets other challenges, where seal mask is definitely one of the larger ones. We need to make efforts here. In three years, 20 percent of the vessel licences in Skåne have ceased, while more and more catches contain a larger proportion of cod that has seal worms. A fisherman recently, on March 3, in South Sweden, testifies that nine out of ten fish he gets up contain seal worms. So it is not only when you are fishing very close to the coast, but also when you are 25 nautical miles out, that is, a distance from the seal stocks. Not only the Baltic cod, but also the stationary, coastal cod are in a very vulnerable position. Mr President, I would like to Much is also going in the right direction. Cod in the western stock is developing positively, although it is from low levels. The salmon are on their way back. The eel, mentioned earlier, has recovered somewhat recently and can, above all, look forward to the new agreement on hydropower. There are also challenges. Seamworms, buttocks, cormorants and seals are a few. Overfishing, marine litter and an inland sea that behaves more and more like a lake are some others. Meeting this requires a whole range of measures and an approach to fisheries as part of the larger ecosystem, not just individual small units that can be managed separately. I am pleased that there is a framework in the form of the common fisheries policy, but I am also convinced that more can be done in the areas of scientific advice, monitoring systems and regulatory simplification. With a conscious and targeted policy, we can also approach what should be the objective of the fisheries policy: healthy fish on the plate from profitable fishing in sustainable stocks.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-114	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 15. Fish and shellfish are healthy foods that give us a healthy supplement of proteins and polyunsaturated fats. In addition, fish often have a high, sometimes very high, value added that creates jobs in several stages after being taken ashore. Fish and shellfish are also food culture, public health and employment. The Swedish Democrats' starting point is that fish and shellfish from Swedish waters make a positive contribution to our self-sufficiency. Furthermore, we believe that fishing as a craft and professional know-how is a culture that should be preserved. Mr President, I would like to Fishing Areas is a resource to be managed in the long term. Something else is unthinkable. Therefore, it is our view that fishing waters should be used on the basis of commercial principles but within limits that are sustainable in the long term. This is not always straightforward when many different countries have to think about it and many different interests have to work together. The fact that the fish come from Swedish waters, within the limits of the quotas laid down by science, is of course also interesting from a sustainability perspective. It is of course in Sweden that we have the best insight into laws and regulations. If the fish comes from the other side of the world, it is of course more difficult to know exactly where it comes from and how it has been caught. The Swedish Democrats are often critical of supranational solutions at EU level. However, fish stocks that are managed jointly are reasonable to manage through regional agreements, which inevitably means that we put a large part of the fisheries policy at European level. However, in the EU's internal market, Swedish fishermen are also affected by Swedish legislation, and our authorities are definitely known for being very zealous in the implementation of EU rules. The attitude of the Swedish democrats is that Swedish rules should be adapted so that Swedish fishermen are not disadvantaged in the internal market. For example, the regulations for the so-called dot system, which exists in Sweden and which means that the dots remain on boats even if they are sold, must be equivalent within the EU. Mr President, I would like to Selective fishing is another issue that should be raised on the agenda. In the same way as trawls and certain other nets are selective in terms of catch, fishermen can fish selectively by choice of hook. It is our view that the regulatory framework should be reviewed so that it harmonises with the possibility of fishing selectively with hooks. The Maritime and Water Authority should therefore be given the task of adapting the regulatory framework accordingly. We also want fishing to be conducted on a larger and smaller scale and the possibility to fish from several ports in Sweden to be preserved and developed, not least as regards the Baltic Sea. Mr President, I would like to Cod stocks in the Baltic Sea are currently very weak, and it may have several reasons. However, it has been established that pre-computer pressure is a significant problem. A large amount of fish is eaten by other than humans. The cormorants have been raised in this House and, as has been said, they consume considerable quantities of cod. It is also common for cormorants to harm cod without eating it and making it unusable to the market – a problem for fisheries in general and coastal fisheries in particular. Of course, sport fishing is also affected. Among the things is that the cormorant that is most common in Sweden is not part of our natural fauna. It originates in China. Its impact on ecosystems is described by biologists as negative, and the stock is steadily increasing. According to the County Administrative Board, in 2016 there were over 30 000 cormorants only in the Stockholm archipelago. It also causes damage to the forest, has a disturbing sound and smells bad. It is a pest on a large scale and a direct threat to our living archipelagos. The only reasonable thing is that we are getting a tougher management of the cormorants today. Then you can initially push the joints away from the areas where it does the most damage but also start to regulate the total number. This does not threaten the conservation status of the cormorants, which is good, which means that general hunting time would be in accordance with the EU Birds Directive. A similar reasoning can be taken about the seal, which has also increased dramatically in number. We have considerably more seals along our coasts than Norway has. The seal should also be managed harder. A seal licence hunt, similar to today's regional protection hunt, would not threaten seal stocks at all. On the other hand, seal hunting could be a way of reducing conflicts between seals and the fishing industry, which is experiencing increased damage to fishing gear and catches. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to continue working on the system of coastal quotas to optimise its functionality for a viable, coastal fishing. It is also our view that the regulatory framework should be revised so that it harmonises with the possibility of fishing selectively with hooks. Aquaculture has been mentioned in this House. There are many good ambitions of the government in part of the food strategy. However, it is a problem that the ambitions have not had any practical impact on the industry, but what happens is that about 80 percent of the industry will be knocked out in just a few years. It is positive that we are receiving an announcement today. But action is needed if we are to take advantage of the potential of fish farming in Sweden, so I hope that the announcement today can contribute to the situation.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-130	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the fisheries report, an area in which there is often quite a lot of consensus. I believe that all parties in Parliament see that we need a sustainable fisheries policy based on scientific foundations. But there are also some differences of opinion. I would therefore like to say that we support both of our reservations, but for time-winning, I only support reservation 13. Fisheries policy is regulated today, as many have already said here in the speaker's chair, by the EU's common fisheries policy. It took a long time to get it in place. It is still being implemented and will operate fully by 2020. Not everything has been peace and joy during this time. Several of the things we thought would be solved are not solved. We still see problems with discards, that is, discarding fish and other catches even though they are not. There are problems with the way data is collected. At the same time, it is so incredibly important that this is done in the same way throughout the European Union. If any country is lagging behind, it is in the interests of the other Member States to ensure that they are included. Fisheries policy is not just about how much fish you can pick up and not. Of course, fish in the sea also depend on many other factors affected by other common EU policies. Eutrophication, chemicals, and other things affect the fish. We must have a holistic perspective in order to achieve a sustainable fisheries policy. We can be proud that Sweden is actually pushing, but unfortunately sometimes as a lonely country. We see this when it comes to regional negotiations on fishing quotas. We here in the Swedish Parliament usually give our Rural Minister a mandate to operate in accordance with the scientific guidelines. Unfortunately, however, decisions are often different, as other countries do not see it the same way. Sweden has an important role to play there. We lie on and have the rather uncomfortable role of always saying: more, more and better, better. I understand that it can be ungrateful, because it's not always as it goes all the way. Fisheries policy is not just about the European Union, but we must look at it from the point of view of the world as a whole. I have just come home from a trip in East Africa, where I could see with my own eyes how global climate change has already struck. Aquaculture there, which consists of a lot of algodlings, was heavily damaged because of the fact that it is already hot in the sea, which gives less quality and less harvests. It hits women who manage these crops in particular. In a coral reef in a marine park, the ban on fishing means that there is a growing area for fish. This is a positive view of local fishermen, for they are now getting greater catches. Outside the area, 60 percent of corals had been affected by coral bleaching. If the temperature is not lowered in the near future, corals will die, not only their auxiliary algae, and without functioning coral reefs it will be difficult to obtain fish. Fisheries policy is therefore linked to other environmental policies. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson spoke valiantly here about small cod stocks in the Baltic Sea, where playgrounds have been reduced. Because of dead bottoms, there are very few places where cod can play and there will be successful fertilization. Just as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said, Baltic cod has a genetic difference, so there is no other cod that can replenish. This, of course, has to do with the problem of eutrophication, which is because we emit too much nutrients. But it is also due to a change in the climate. According to the forecasts we have now received, we will have increased rainfall in the Baltic Sea region, resulting in a lower salinity – something that will make it even more difficult for cod. And without cod and big predatory fish, we'll have a systemic collapse. It does not bode well, so we have to do something about the way we fish and what we fish and also do something about what affects the fish and the other animals in the sea. The government has set up an investigation into a possible ban on trawls in protected areas. Today, fishing is only regulated in about 5% to 7% of our protected areas. In Öresund, there is a ban on trawling, and there we have a viable and good cod stock. Let me also say a little bit about aquaculture where it is an exciting development. We are still a little novice on this in Sweden, but there are many good projects going on. Many companies are running everything from algae cultivation of microalgae and macroalgae to indoor cultivation of tropical giant shrimps, as in Lysekil where I live. It is an activity that is bubbling, and it seems that you can constantly turn on a new loop. If you have a salmon farm, you can grow something else from that water, such as microalgae, and then something else that becomes fish feed, and so on. These are exciting industries which, of course, we must stimulate. It also contributes to rural development when the new facilities are indoors and synergies can be achieved. So I was happy to read yesterday that my home municipality of Lysekil has received money for a new marine center. It is a collaboration between the University of Gothenburg, Chalmers, KTH, IVL, Rise and Lysekil municipality to build sustainable marine industries both indoors and outdoors. It's gonna be exciting. Marine center in Simrishamn has today received money from Region Skåne to work with Baltic cod and other things. These are areas where both industry and policy see the need to move forward and do more. The government has begun work on regulatory simplifications, but I think there will be a lot more ahead that is now being worked on.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-145	Mr President, I would like to In this report on fisheries policy, there have been many reservations. Some are from the Center Party, but for time winning I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 2 on a national strategy for Swedish fishing. Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that such a strategy is needed for reasons that several speakers have already mentioned. We import a lot of fish. Fishing, processing, tourism, culture and so on lead to jobs, and jobs we want in all parts of our country. We also get climate-smart food from fishing. We have recently adopted a strategy in this House to produce more Swedish climate-smart food. For this reason, I think it is extremely important that a strategy be developed for Swedish fisheries, because there is a crayfish trail and there is a need to strengthen it. Among other things, the profitability is too poor and the competitiveness towards the many imported fish that we prepare and then eat at our dinner tables. Mr President, I would like to The second point I intend to make is the announcements made by the committee. I am pleased with these announcements, but at the same time I am surprised that the Parliament will have to make announcements in these areas, for example with regard to regulations governing aquaculture. Why am I surprised? As early as 2012, proposals were made on what needs to be done in this area. These proposals were submitted for consultation and are ready. They are just to stick through so that we get the many activities that I think we all want, not least in the Swedish countryside. Why am I saying this? To repeat: we have recently adopted a strategy for Swedish food production, and fish are, as you know, part of Swedish food production. I am also saying this because it has been announced that we expect a rural bill that will strengthen the Swedish countryside, among other things, and where does this production and activity take place? Yes, in the Swedish countryside. In addition, these activities tend to provide ancillary activities. What do I mean by that? Among other things, the processing and processing industry that exists after one production but also other ancillary activities. From experience, we know that this can lead to turnover in transport, tourism, cultural and port activities that are used when fish are landed and taken care of in different ways. I support the committee's proposal for two announcements to the government and once again ask for the approval of reservation No 2.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-152	Mr President, I would like to Almost 90% of the world's fish stocks are overfished. The situation in Sweden is not much better. We have talked about cod, which is overfished, and the eel, which is under immediate threat. So this applies to fish that are present in our seas. Monica Haider from the Social Democrats and Jesper Skalberg from the Moderates, for example, mentioned seals and cormorants as threats to our fish. Of course, there may be some problems there, but let us remember that it is human beings and industrial fishing that have ultimately created the problems we are facing today. For a long time we have been subsidising totally unsustainable industrial fishing, which has given priority to vacuuming our seas on as much fish as possible regardless of the consequences. It is high time to change course. It is high time to save our seas and streams and to save our fish stocks and allow them to grow strong and healthy again. There are a number of political decisions that we should take in the Swedish Parliament and at EU level. I'll bring up some of them. First of all, we need to fish less and in a more gentle way. One simple way is for us politicians to set quotas that are in line with what science gives us as advice. That is also exactly what the European fisheries policy now says. It is therefore extremely frustrating that, despite scientific advice and, as Emma Nohrén said, a rural minister who says he wants to follow this advice, decisions are taken in Brussels on levels that are far beyond sustainable. Unfortunately, Sweden belongs to the countries voting in favour of the increased quotas, which are well above the sustainable limit. Of course, it's problematic. We need, as I said, to fish in a more sustainable and gentle way, and now we have set quotas for fishing. For example, we in the Left Party believe that bottom trawling should be banned. In the report, we propose other selective gear so that the number of by-catches is minimised. Mr President, I would like to The second proposal is that we need to protect more marine areas. In Sweden we have expanded the areas with marine reserves considerably, and that is good. But when we look at the reservations we see that we continue to allow large-scale industrial fishing, often with bottom trawling, in these marine reserves. Then I wonder: What is the point of the reservations if we continue to allow bottom trawling? Emma Nohrén from the Green Party mentioned that we should restrict fishing in the marine reserves. I think people listening to this debate thought that was already the case. You in the Green Party have been in the government for almost four years, and I find it strange that you are still talking about limiting it. You have had every chance to overcome the problem. Thirdly, Mr President, sectors other than those at sea need to shoulder their responsibilities, especially agriculture, which is the main source of eutrophication in the Baltic Sea. Eutrophication and dead bottoms are an acute threat to all living life in the Baltic Sea. In this respect, clearer restrictions on agricultural emissions must be made. Fourthly, we need to do more to limit the amount of environmental toxins, chemicals, plastics and other substances released into our seas. It is good that we have efficient wastewater treatment plants in Sweden, even if they do not manage to capture everything. It would be even better if we could go higher up the hierarchy and simply ensure that toxins and dangerous chemicals are not placed on the market at all, because sooner or later they will spread and end up in our seas. Fifthly, we need to make stricter demands on hydropower in Sweden. Hydropower is a major threat to all fish that walk. We need to ensure that hydropower in Sweden receives modern permits that fully recognise the needs of biodiversity, not least for fish that wander and play in our rivers. Here came an agreement from a number of parties last week. It is a step forward, but it does not cover all dams, for example, and does not fully require, for example, small-scale hydropower production to assume its responsibility for biodiversity and contribute financially to tackling this. There is still much to be done. The sixth and last of the proposals I raise, Mr President, is an easy way to tackle the depletion of our seas. It is simply to stop financially subsidising the large-scale fishing industry. Unfortunately, we are seeing solemn speeches from Brussels and a new fisheries policy for a number of years. Subsidies in the multi-billion-dollar class still go to large fishing fleets and to the establishment of neo-colonial fisheries agreements with developing countries, which drain their seas of fish. There are also huge subsidies for fuel for these fishing fleets. It is strange that these fleets do not have to pay taxes on the fuels that they think. The report, Mr President, contains two announcements which we in the Left Party find strange, totally unnecessary and sometimes counterproductive. One is that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want increased support for aquaculture and want to review the legislation in this area. Once again, apparently, they want to change the beach shelter. We in the Left Party don't think it's necessary. There are several forms of aquaculture that need to be stimulated. More production of algae and mussels, for example, can be a good form of aquaculture. However, we see that this is an already ongoing work. That is why we support reservation No 3, which has been tabled by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Nor do I understand the point of breaking a completely open door, as the report does – that there should be more effective follow-up to fisheries policy. It is also a work that is fully underway. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Left Party's Amendment No 12, which deals with the monitoring of fish landed on boats. By having cameras selectively showing the fish landed, we can ensure that the quota decisions are complied with more effectively.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-169	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 14, which deals with the development of selective tools, but of course I support all the reservations with which the Liberals are involved. This also applies to other relevant parts of the report, not least the two announcements that are there. It is about the regulatory framework for aquaculture and a more effective monitoring system. Mr President, I would like to As mentioned earlier, the basis of the CFP is the EU's common fisheries policy. We in the Liberals think that this is a good thing and that the reform that has taken place has been a major step in the right direction. It is about getting to long-term management plans. The landing obligation is an important element that must be fulfilled. It must be effective controls so that it pays to do the right thing in the system. As Emma Nohrén said, we do not have very different views on these basic principles. In general, it can be said that when we have fisheries debates, it will be easy for it to be a question of restrictions, bans and decommissioning rather than the development of the fishing industry. I will try to stick to the latter – that this is something that needs to be developed, not least for the reasons that have been mentioned. It is an important food source and also an important nutrition in rural areas and along Sweden's coasts. There are some basic things that we in the Liberals have as our starting point, and they are surely self-evident to most of you. The first is that long-term sustainability goes hand in hand with long-term profitability. Organic sustainability is the basis for economic and social sustainability. The whole system must be based on ecosystem-based management plans over time. Another point that we in the Liberals have highlighted on a number of occasions is the forms of cooperation between the fishing industry, politicians, scientists and authorities. They have developed in a number of regions in Sweden. It is important that they are taken care of. If you want positive development with long-term sustainable positions, you need to get a common reality picture of the problems to be solved. Often this is not so far away if you just start discussing the issue properly and convey your views. What has been a little problematic is when some professionals feel run over and put in a defensive position instead of being part of the solution. It's a natural reaction. You do not want to be the problem, you want to be part of the solution, and most people want to take responsibility for it. Professional fishing, both from a European and a Swedish point of view, is very governed by regulations. Many fishermen testify that they want to do the right thing so badly but that it will be wrong anyway. And then they get fines and so on. There is some kind of powerlessness built into this system, and the regulatory framework is complicated and perhaps unmanageable. As I mentioned earlier, coastal small-scale fishing is of great importance to many coastal towns. It is not just about fishing itself and the fishing industry, it is also about the tourism industry and what can be developed around it. Even locally produced food is an important factor that more and more may become the crucial reason why people make a trip and visit a town along the Swedish coasts. This discussion can then be linked to other policy areas. Things can be complicated for small-scale food management, so that you cannot develop and process your products properly. Swedish fisheries must be developed, and we must have a development strategy for it. After all, there is a lower critical limit when fishing does not really work anymore. It is very much about the peripheral activities that fishing requires. These could be shipyards, trawl workshops, iceworks and sales organisations. If they do not have a sufficient basis, they will disappear and the conditions for profitable fishing will then be very complicated. Mr President, I would like to Nor should we underscore the fact that the consumer perspective is becoming increasingly important. Many consumers make demands to be able to eat sustainably. This means linking labelling, fishing, the fishing industry and the consumer in an understandable way. This is a development that is under way and which I believe must be intensified over time. If you want profitability, you have to have a range that is in demand. This is a report which contains a large number of sports requests from general exercise time. Therefore, by definition, it will not be comprehensive. There are some things that are being highlighted more than others, and some are being simplified this year. We from the Liberals have, however, raised some issues in our motions. It is, of course, about what we are probably very much in agreement about, namely that it is scientific assessments that must be the basis for the allocation of quotas. On the Liberal side, we would also like to highlight and discuss the issue of quotas being allocated on the basis of an environmental quota, that is, using a certain type of gear, a certain type of fuel and energy efficiency could be rewarded with a greater allocation of quotas. It is also important that we continue to develop selective and gentle gears and fishing methods. It has been mentioned here on a number of occasions. During the time of the alliance government, a great deal of money was allocated to projects to develop selective trawls and so on. This is support that must continue over time in order for us to have a positive development. It is almost crucial if we are to have a working landing obligation that we have gear development that goes hand in hand with this. Mr President, I would like to I will finally say something about aquaculture. I mentioned earlier that the fisheries regulations are complicated. But the regulatory framework for aquaculture is also being highlighted time and again. There is a strategy developed in 2012, Strategy 2012-2020. There is also an action plan for it. There are a lot of good proposals, and there is a lot of work going on. What I think may be a little sad is that as soon as we meet representatives of aquaculture, they constantly highlight all the obstacles that exist. We get lists of things that need to be changed. So I'm a little worried. We agree that the regulatory framework needs to be changed but that there is great potential in this – it provides jobs in rural areas, and we get another source of good and climate-smart food. But it is then incredibly important that we really solve the knots that exist, so that it does not become so that we see that there is potential but that we do not have the power to get around the regulations. We now see time and again that there is much more environmentally friendly cultivation systems – closed systems. We had an interesting seminar last week about connecting fish farming and tomato cultivation to make the circular food chains go together. This means that the regulatory framework can really be adapted to this type of activity. It really hastens with this. The expression as the grass grows, the cow dies a bit applicable when we discuss the regulations on aquaculture.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-188	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 18 in the report, but I support all the reservations on which the Christian Democrats are present. First of all, I would like to say that fishing is a fundamental industry in the country, and man has been fishing for thousands of years. Fishing, fish processing, fish sales and other industries have played an important role in the coastal areas, not least on the West Coast where I am resident. My sleigh has been a fisherman since the 17th century and has survived many storms on the sea. The Swedish fishing industry is subject to many different rules. A particularly detailed regulatory framework at EU level soon regulates most of the production of fish and fisheries policy. There is also national legislation and a number of regulations from public authorities. The regulatory mass is felt to be extremely heavy on the nutrition. Among the more difficult rules is that the fisherman must guess the size of the catch within a margin of 10% before it has been weighed, otherwise the fisherman will be punished. The VMS system transmits signals enabling the vessel to be checked. When the fish is caught, the result is recorded in the logbook. There is then a settlement check on the landing of the catch. A 10% margin of error is fine. It can be difficult to understand – especially if you haven't been on a fishing boat in harsh weather in the North Sea – that in tough weather it can be difficult to estimate how much fish you have got. You might think it's 300 kilos, and then it turns out at the landing it's 350 kilos. Yes, then you exceed the margin and have to pay a fine. Now the European Commission will review the Control Regulation in the spring, and hopefully this appreciation system will disappear. There is also a dot system throughout the EU, and if you get several dots, you can be excluded from the profession. The Swedish national rules regulating fisheries in detail should also be reviewed. One example where Sweden goes further than the EU is the ban on the fishing of salmon in the Baltic Sea. There are national rules which are invented and which then need to be addressed when they do not work. This was the case with shrimp fishing in the West Sea where the annual individual allocation, i.e. the quota, of shrimp benefited the smaller boats in mainly northern Bohuslän but disadvantaged the larger boats. Now it has to be made more sustainable for all shrimp fishermen. Mr President, I would like to Fishermen are increasingly competing with seals and cormorants for fishing catches. Both of these competitors have significantly increased their populations in recent years. In total, the seal eats around 60 000 tonnes of fish in the Baltic Sea in one year, a significant part of which is cod. The cormorants eat about 25,000 tons of fish each year. Both seals and cormorants as well as people have legitimate interests in catching fish, but what I mean is that we should reduce the proportion of fish caught by seals and cormorants and increase the proportion caught by humans. There are several reasons why people's fish consumption should increase. Fish is a nutritious food. It is a resource efficient way of obtaining proteins, and we humans need to make smart use of natural resources. Professor Sture Hansson, together with the combined expertise, has stated that a substantial part of the seal strain – I may not be on the decimal point right, but about 75 percent – could be killed without damage to the stem. We hear of fishermen in the Baltic Sea who have given up because fishing with nets no longer works. The yarn becomes like a sandwich table for the seals, with broken gear as a result. These people have been fishing for 30 to 40 years and say: Sälen has won – I give up. What, then, is the solution? There is a need for increased hunting to reduce the stock of seals and, at the same time, to give, among other things, the cod stock an opportunity to grow. In Finland, state-owned hunters who shoot off seals have been tried. Mr President, I would like to There are sparkles of light in the harsh reality of professional fishing. Selective gears are being developed, and professional fishing is the driving force. Some shellfish, such as Norway lobster, have greater absorption potential than is used – only 39 % of the quota for Norway lobster is fished. Thus, a value of a quarter of a billion remains in the sea. Norway lobster is caught mostly, about 70 – 75 per cent, with bottom trawling. Despite light sparkles, it looks dark for Swedish fishing if the future is not allowed to return to professional fishing. This also applies to the joy and pride of being a fisherman – the one I recognize from my time at sea. Regulatory simplification is important, and the sometimes aggressive tone of some politicians needs to be toneed down. The demand for a general ban on bottom trawling by the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats is not realistic. How the Social Democrats at their Congress could decide on a ban on bottom trawling and work to ban bottom trawling throughout the EU is, of course, completely incomprehensible. As I understand it at the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht does not want this either, but now it is a Congress decision. I don't know how to handle it, but normally you do it. However, there is silence here, and I do not think that it is intended to be carried out. Mr President, I would like to There are demands for camera surveillance; several mention it in their movements. Among other things, the Left Party takes it up, and Social Democrats have previously expressed a positive opinion on camera surveillance. Please explain to me how you can suggest camera surveillance of a professional group while in Sweden you find it difficult to get camera surveillance for the prevention of crime in society! That sounds ridiculous. There is every reason to watch over these issues so that they do not get hold of a majority in the EU or nationally.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-202	Mr President, I would like to It may have been unclear in my speech, but we in the Left Party are behind all our reservations – even the reservation we have with S and MP. For time winning, however, I only applied for reservation 12. Roland Utbolt described that fishing activities have a long tradition, and that is indeed the case. But large-scale industrial fishing with bottom trawls does not have such a long tradition. Nor is the tradition of subsidising fishing with billions of dollars and euros very long. It can be seen, however, that our seas have been almost completely emptied of fish after they have embarked on the large-scale, subsidised track. Up to 90% of stocks are now depleted. I would like to ask Roland Utbolt what the position of the Christian Democrats on camera control of fishing fleets really is. In fact, a united Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has agreed that we should have a camera control experiment to ensure that stocks are kept and that quotas are respected. I would also like to ask what the position of the Christian Democrats is on subsidies to the fishing industry and that, for example, there is a tax exemption on fuel for professional fishing, which stimulates, among other things, bottom trawling. Do the Christian Democrats think that a tax exemption for professional fishing is a good thing?
i-7b72faf9826821ef-206	Mr President, I would like to If I am the biggest supporter of Swedish professional fishing, I think Jens Holm is the biggest opponent, I think. We've had lines like this before. I will start with large-scale fishing. The total quota is the same regardless of who fishes it, so to speak, i.e. whether it is small boats or large boats. It may be someone who has developed his fishing and got into a fairly large business, but you do not fish more than the total quota. So I'd say it's defensible. As far as overfishing is concerned, as Jens Holm spoke a lot in his speech, I would like to tell you about when I went fishing in the 60s. When we had our smaller boats, the Russian clean industries lay out on the North Sea. They fished and made industry out of it – on an enormous scale. Another example is the cod in the Baltic Sea, which has unfortunately been fished out very much; you are right in that, Jens Holm. The Poles who were there fishing up the big cod were, as someone put it, a big Polish problem. It was there, among the Poles, that the biggest fishing was going on a few decades ago, when they fished out the big cod, so be a little careful to accuse the Swedish professional fishing for what has happened here.
i-7b72faf9826821ef-209	Mr President, I would like to I asked Roland Utbolt questions about Christian Democrats' policy, not what Russia or Poland is doing. Of course, we can also discuss this, but it is interesting that I did not get a single answer to the two concrete questions I put to the Christian Democrats. One question was: do the Christian Democrats not think that we should abolish, or at least reduce, the tax exemption that professional fishing has? My second question was about something that I think many in committee want to know: is it the case that the Christian Democrats are no longer behind the common position we have from the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, namely that we should be in favour of experimental camera control to ensure that quotas of the landed fish are kept? What do the Christian Democrats think there?
i-7b72faf9826821ef-212	Mr President, I would like to I think Jens Holm listens a little poorly. I gave an answer on quotas. As Jens Holm knows, I am not in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, so what concerns the issue where you have a united committee may well end up in my own account. Jens Holm is against subsidies from professional fishing. I support professional fishing and know what hardship fishermen live under. That is why I also support the necessary subsidies there. Jens Holm and the government support the construction production to a very large extent, so the thing about that you would not subsidise is just a game from your side, Jens Holm. When it comes to construction, it is construction companies that benefit from the subsidies – here it is professional fishing and fishermen, who live in rather difficult conditions. I would like those who criticise professional fishing to be able to understand a little about what it is about being a fisherman. It is said that fishermen have a boat and glide into the sea, so most of it dissolves, and then they fish all the fish. But a fisherman is smart enough to know that sustainable fishing is necessary if it is to continue in the next generation. So be a little careful to tackle professional fishing in this way. Instead, I think that fishermen need more support. They need to regain faith in the future and regain the joy and pride of being a fisherman.
