i-7a5756832a1a1a69-1	Mr President, I would like to The basic attitude of Sweden's democrats in terms of international efforts is that these should take place under the auspices of the United Nations. We see the UN as the primary cooperation body for dealing with conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. Since the birth of the UN, Sweden has participated in many of the organisation's peacekeeping operations, all in all around 1 20 international missions in sixty countries. But we have also seen that over the past few decades Sweden has almost completely excluded from participating in UN-led peacekeeping operations and has instead given priority to EU and NATO-led operations. The UN has apparently been rejected as a conflict manager by various governments, which we regret. However, the UN operation in Mali, which we will be discussing next year, is an exception. Although we have the principle that it should be UN-led action, there is of course a need to depart from this principle from time to time. The intervention in Iraq, which will be debated by the Parliament after this debate, is one such exception. The fight against IS has been superior to such principles, which is why we have also supported this effort and continue to do so under certain conditions. We will come back to this in the next debate. But, Mr President, with regard to the operation in Afghanistan, we believe that Sweden should end its military engagement. It is now time for other actors to take up where we stop. Since 2002, Sweden has been involved in military operations in Afghanistan; we are now in the 17th year. The question that should be put to all the parties that are in favour of continuing military engagement in Afghanistan is how long we shall continue to be present. In this context, I would like to stress, Mr President, that the Swedish Armed Forces, through their contributions to both ISAF and RSM, have done an excellent job under the given conditions. The efforts have at times been demanding and unfortunately also resulted in Swedish losses. I think that we, as Swedish citizens, can be proud of the historic contribution we have made to Afghanistan and its people, and I would like to thank the Swedish soldiers who have made efforts in Afghanistan. This is important to stress when we are now advocating our withdrawal. However, we believe that a further border must be set for Swedish military engagement in Afghanistan, and this border is now well crossed. We must also bear in mind that today we have a Swedish defence that must be given priority over international action in distant countries. Unfortunately, we cannot be everywhere, but we must prioritise our resources. The Swedish defence has, through the mismanagement of various governments, been reduced both financially and in terms of the number of units. Although foreign efforts can promote interoperability and increase understanding of methods and ways of working that can benefit Swedish defence capabilities, we still believe that our primary objective right now should be to build a Swedish defence of existence, capable of facing future threats here in our neighbourhood. It is ultimately a matter of prioritising resources. We believe that Sweden should leave the operation in Afghanistan as soon as possible. We have already been drawn into a protracted civil war that has been going on for decades and cost the Swedish defence several funds, which could instead have been used for an expansion of the defence organization here in Sweden. For this reason, Mr President, we believe that Parliament should reject the Government's proposal. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-10	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking all of you who are on or have been on a foreign mission for Sweden. It is a difficult task for the Riksdag to send you, and for your efforts we in the Left Party wish to express our appreciation. The situation in Afghanistan is worse than it has been for a long time. The population lives under constant threat of attacks by armed resistance forces, government forces and international forces. The drought is also spreading now, and income opportunities are further reduced. We need to reconsider. Since the representatives of both the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in the committee are calling for rejection of the bill, we must have a joint reservation. However, I would like to emphasise that our parties differ fundamentally in their view of Sweden's commitment to Afghanistan. The policy of the Left Party for Afghanistan is based on solidarity with the Afghan people. We want Sweden to be a present and active player in the country. But this should be done through comprehensive aid and political efforts for peace, democracy and women's rights – not through military presence with NATO. It is through our long-standing commitment to the Afghan people and through long-term development cooperation – not least what is being done by the Swedish Afghanistan Committee – that Sweden can best contribute to a positive development in the now war-torn country. Mr President, I would like to To continue to participate year after year in an operation that has not improved the security situation is to do the same over and over again and expect a different result. That's how Einstein defined madness. We in the Left Party have called for the rejection of proposals on the same subject and still believe that a Swedish armed force should not be made available in NATO's training and advice mission. This effort has been justified and defended with a wide range of arguments. It has been said that the Swedish soldiers are to protect Afghan girls who want to go to school, contribute to democratisation, defeat the Taliban and create security. Once again, we note that the security situation has not improved. On the contrary, the conflict has worsened, and more and more civilians are being attacked. Hazari wrestling clubs are being bombed, aid workers are being killed and peace is still remote. The victims have been attacked from all sides, both by the armed resistance forces and by the government forces, which the RSM operation is supposed to train. There have also been reports of government troops entering health clinics, withdrawing patients and carrying out extrajudicial executions. In addition, the operation takes place in parallel with the U.S. Operation Free Sentinel. The fact that both efforts are led by the same American commander makes Swedish participation even more problematic. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1. In March 2017, an evaluation of Sweden's overall engagement in Afghanistan came in the period 2002–2014. That investigation showed that few goals had been achieved. The Swedish force was not considered to have contributed to the desirable maintenance of security, nor to building the capacity of the Afghan security forces to the desired extent. We believe that this is a serious flaw. According to the investigation, however, the Swedish Armed Forces had developed their own ability to cooperate with NATO. Given how many civilians have fallen victim to NATO's warfare, I would argue that the price has been far too high. While I am on the subject, I would like to highlight our request for a White Paper. It is said that this is not needed after this investigation, but I find it difficult to see that the investigation was independent and credible because it was led by one of the politicians who made the decision to send a Swedish military force to Afghanistan. In view of the fact that the investigation also did not answer the question as to why the mission to create security in Afghanistan had failed, there is a need to set up an independent investigation that actually finds out. A White Paper on the Swedish military presence in Afghanistan would be a way of transparently presenting and evaluating both the military operation and Sweden's support for police training, development aid and political and diplomatic work. In particular, it is important to evaluate how Sweden's various efforts have interacted with each other – what has been called civilian – military cooperation over the years. I therefore propose that reservation 2 be approved. Mr President, I would like to In Afghanistan, a new generation of young women and men is growing up. Many of them lack opportunities for education, livelihood and a life that is not limited by oppression and poverty. This picture is confirmed not least by all the unaccompanied children and young people who have fled the country and who, due to the lack of security in Afghanistan, should under no circumstances be returned. A future must first be created for young people and children in Afghanistan. Lack of faith in the future and frustration is the Taliban's best friend; it facilitates their recruitment. Long-term development aid is therefore necessary to solve the root causes of the war in Afghanistan. The Left Party therefore welcomes the fact that Sweden has pledged more than SEK 8 billion in civilian aid to Afghanistan by 2024. This has contributed to more people having access to education and health care, and it will continue to do so. At the same time, efforts are needed to support efforts towards a peace and reconciliation process. This process must accommodate a wide range of all the groups involved in Afghan society in order to take shape a long-term, peaceful solution. It is particularly important that the women of Afghanistan are included, so that their influence and rights are not negotiated away. In June 2015, a plan was adopted in Afghanistan aimed at implementing UN Resolution 1325. It is of the utmost importance that this work should form the basis for the construction of a democratic Afghanistan in peace. Mr President, I would like to Such a peace and reconciliation process will of course be complex and take time, but there are no other options if we want to see Afghanistan in peace.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-29	Mr President, I would like to The seriousness of the decision that we are going to take here in Parliament this afternoon, the debate we have now and the preparations that have preceded this cannot be exaggerated. It is not just an extension of an effort, which one can do a little sweeping and totally speaking about. It has been preceded by careful work in the Government Office, at the Ministry of Defence and here in the Riksdag. The composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has held meetings where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Swedish Armed Forces have been given a careful account of the Government's proposal and the possibilities that the Swedish Armed Forces have to implement it. Members of the committee have had the opportunity to ask questions, examine the proposal and question the direction and content. There is a great deal of work and commitment on this from all parties, no matter what the conclusion is then reached as to whether or not the effort should continue. I think it is important to emphasise that we examine the proposal, the objectives and the implementation. Sometimes the debate on interventions in general, and perhaps in particular on the operation in Afghanistan, says that the Parliament extends them a little ad hoc. I would definitely like to contest any such claim. We are all taking this very seriously. It is important to evaluate and follow up the work that is taking place and the developments in Afghanistan. It is undoubtedly problematic. That is why we have also received regular reports in the Riksdag on the progress of the work. Over time, we have developed our work in demanding that targets be set for all international efforts. We are constantly developing in our work to ensure that Sweden and the international effort work as well as possible in this very complex context. This is a serious decision. It is a serious decision that Sweden participates in an armed international operation. It is a serious decision that we ask women and men to stand up for this kind of effort and ultimately risk their lives. We are all aware of this seriousness in the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, but it is also important to express to others that we actually see and feel it. Members of Parliament from both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee have over time visited various international efforts to be able to monitor and evaluate how it works and have brought the knowledge and experience back here to the Riksdag. It is also an important part of our constant work on our international efforts. Mr President, I would like to RSM, Resolute Support Mission, as this operation is called, is today the form of the international work in Afghanistan regarding military activities in which Sweden participates. It started with the so-called ISAF operation 2001-2002 through UN decisions, and today we are participating in the RSM on the basis of an invitation from the Afghan Government. It is one in a series of calls over time that has been repeatedly supported by the UN, most recently in Resolution 2405 this year. The proposal for the Swedish operation is that we should continue to have 50 people in place in Afghanistan. Should there be a need to rescue them, we should have the opportunity to send another 150 people, i.e. a total of 200 people. The task is, in practical terms, to advise the Afghan security forces, to train them and to support them. The objective of the operation can be summed up by the fact that the Afghan security forces are being developed over time and able, in the long term, to manage the security of Afghanistan itself. Another important objective of the Swedish operation is UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. All Swedish personnel must be trained in this and apply it. We can also see over time how this has affected entire efforts in different international contexts. So it is not only Sweden that is doing this nowadays. Sweden has a long-term commitment to Afghanistan. It is not just a military commitment, it is an overall commitment. It is about the long-term development of Afghanistan and its stability. We are also working on comprehensive development aid to Afghanistan. Sweden has been active in Afghanistan in the field of development aid for a very long time. It has been at different times, different regimes and different stages of internal conflicts in Afghanistan. It has been for decades. Afghanistan is Sweden's largest bilateral aid country and is likely to continue to be so for a further number of years. During this year and next year, the Folke Bernadotte Academy is also working on a special initiative concerning peace-promoting work involving women. Sweden therefore has a large and broad commitment to Afghanistan. It is not just a military commitment. Our military operation mainly takes place in northern Afghanistan and in Kabul, and it will continue to be the areas in which Sweden is active, geographically. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to thank the entire Parliament for the staff involved in this and other international efforts – and for the relatives of those staff. In doing so, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in this report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved.
i-GNKNZWvFPmweRaEyX8URRA	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Kenneth Forslund and the Social Democrats. As I mentioned in my speech, Sweden has been involved in Afghanistan since 2002, in the form of ISAF and now in the RSM. My first question is: How long will Sweden be involved in its military engagement? Kenneth G Forslund himself mentions that this is not something that is automatically rolling on, but it is carefully considered and so on. But now this is the 17th year. How long will we continue to attend? Afghanistan is a country that has suffered severe conflicts for decades. It does not look any better now, and this can last for decades. The Social Democrats must have some idea of our commitment. Should we continue to be there year after year, or do you think it is time for other actors to take on and assume their responsibilities? Then there is the second question, Mr President. There are now 26 days left until the end of the mandate for armed forces in Afghanistan. A phasing out of our contribution should take longer than 26 days. When I asked the question in the committee to the Swedish Armed Forces, one could not really answer the question. Even if we could retire in 26 days, since it's not more than 50 men, it would be very unserious to just take your stuff and leave, you might think. It should be planned a little better than that. As I mentioned in committee, it is a bit like Parliament being held hostage in this situation, because we are getting this matter so late on our table. Should we reject this today, it means either a very rapid withdrawal, which is perhaps not so serious from the Swedish side, or that there will be a Swedish armed force in Afghanistan without the Parliament's mandate. Should these matters not be better planned so that we can discuss this? It is not serious on the part of the government to assume that the Riksdag will vote in favour of this time after time.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-48	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Söder, for these questions! I wish I could answer the first question: how long will Sweden be active in a military operation in Afghanistan? Needs seem almost endless. We can see that the problems increased when the international effort was reduced overall a few years ago. That is why the total international effort in Afghanistan is now increasing again, albeit not to the size it was in a few years ago. The second question was about decommissioning. I think it is a motivated and important issue. You can phase out very quickly if it is absolutely necessary, but then of course there will be no great decommissioning. Then it was time to prepare such a decision. There I have great respect for what Björn Söder says. This should, of course, be dealt with in a very serious way. I think there's a point in what Björn Söder says about the time horizon. It is about being able to make this decision and not just face some kind of completed fact. I think that is something we can look at in the future. At the same time, the timetable for this kind of thing depends on many other factors in a long chain, so it is not only us who govern such timetables.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-51	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kenneth G. Forslund for his reply. It is gratifying that there is also some criticism on the part of the government in this regard. I understand, of course, that conditions can change very quickly in these situations. It can be quite different conditions if you are to continue to participate and so on. But we should start looking at this at an early stage – whether it should continue or whether there should be a withdrawal. We as a party can vote against this and reject the bill, but if it were to become a reality, we would have a difficult situation to deal with. Since it is the Riksdag that makes the final decision on Swedish armed forces abroad, the Government cannot always assume that it is the Government's proposal for an extended effort that goes through. Nevertheless, I thank you for that answer. As far as the time perspective is concerned, I think that within the social democracy and the government there should be some sort of planning for this. Let us say that the situation continues, that it is getting worse or becoming as difficult as it is now. There must still be some thought. Should Sweden continue for several decades to come, or when do you think the far border is crossed? We have felt that it has been passed since 2012, when we thought that it should dismantle ISAF and not stand up for RSM. I think it was 2011 or 2012- I have to leave it unsaid. At the time, we felt that the border was crossed, but there must be a further border for the Social Democrats as well.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-55	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the long-term perspective is important. We are now proposing that we decide on continued engagement. It is clear that it is not a proposal based on the fact that we see before us that we will soon conclude this. This is partly a reason why the planning requested by Björn Söder is missing. There are other efforts in which we see in front of us that we will not be able to carry out the activities that we are currently carrying out. There is also a plan for the phasing out of such missions. But we are not going into this primarily to end it at this stage. One would like it to be possible to put a buck in the calendar when one could say that we have a safe, secure and stable Afghanistan. Unfortunately, this is too complicated a conflict for it to be possible to do so. Therefore, it is not possible to say the exact end point. Then you can come to the conclusion that the Swedish Democrats came up with a few years ago: No, now we think that Sweden should leave Afghanistan. This is a conclusion that has been reached by the Swedish Democrats and that can be reached. But we Social Democrats and, as it seems, a fairly broad majority here in Parliament do not share that view. We still believe that Sweden can do good and do good in Afghanistan and that Sweden will therefore do so.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-58	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Kenneth G. Forslund has described the seriousness and anguish of the preparation of this matter. We Moderates have come to the conclusion that we believe it is reasonable and right that Sweden continues to contribute to this international effort. The Swedish effort is limited, but it matters. We know that the overall international effort is important, and it is quite large. Our contribution with advisors to Afghanistan's security forces and in task forces is significant. We have some knowledge that we can share. The situation in Afghanistan is tense. It is very easy when you stand in this Chamber to worry about all the Swedish perspectives on the problems of contributing to international efforts. Nevertheless, let me just say something about the reality that we might be able to relate to. In the first three quarters of this year, 2,343 civilians were killed in suicide attacks in Afghanistan. There's more people killed than in ground battles. According to UN Mission Unama, the IS owes 40% to half of the victims and the Taliban. In October, violence was particularly high. At least 22 people died and 40 were injured at an election meeting in Takhar before the parliamentary elections. Hundreds of people were killed in election-related violence, including a dozen candidates for Parliament. We can put ourselves in the position that ten of us who run for Sweden's Parliament would be killed during an election campaign. The problems in Afghanistan are many and complex, but progress must be based on the fragile structure and work in progress to create a parliament that works and a democracy worthy of the name. That is, as far as I understand it, the only way to build freedom and well-being for people. Despite all the problems, 3 million voters out of some 9 million voters in Afghanistan went to the ballot boxes. They had to postpone the elections in some provinces. That was a lot of trouble. Not all polling stations could be open. There is so much to describe. It is fragile, and that is why the international community is not withdrawing its commitment. Sweden can contribute in a small way, and we do. I think it is clear that we must have some perseverance in this. With a perspective of 40 years of misery in Afghanistan, I would like to say that I personally have sometimes lost my lust, patience and faith. But if we do not believe that there is a way forward, we will not solve any problems at all. We have some expertise that we can contribute, and we do. The Swedish contribution is about fifty people among 16 000. You can't say that other people should take over. 39 nations are participating in this effort. In addition, we have all the humanitarian work that is being done, and a prerequisite for all those efforts to work is, of course, that the Afghan security forces are able to safeguard to some extent people's safety and security in the streets and squares. But they cannot do that today without external support, and that is what this matter is about. Are there problems for us here in Sweden? Yeah. There are several problems. It's expensive. It costs to send personnel and other things in international efforts. But our assessment is that it is reasonable to contribute in this way. The main problem, if you ask me, is that we have limited human resources with the required skills. We do not have enough good officers and experts in the Swedish defence based on all needs. But we also see that what some can contribute to the Afghanistan operation and elsewhere gives back experience, knowledge and other useful things. So we not only benefit there but also benefit ourselves. It is in our own interests to do what little we are proposed to do, and I think that is reasonable. In the course of the preparatory work, the discussion has focused on two main issues. One is the need to formulate objectives for what we are doing. I agree. Of course it's important. But I also have some respect for the fact that it is a bit difficult to formulate a decisive, concrete goal that can also be measured when you have 50 people among 16 000. That is the second question that has been raised. NATO regularly evaluates the efforts made, providing some guidance. I rarely commend the government we have had, but I still think that there has been an effort to try to formulate clearer objectives and see how we should measure progress and to what extent our work is useful. I think that is a good thing, and it is a job that must continue. To conclude, I would like to talk about something that has been mentioned by many, and that is that international efforts are certainly demanding, but it is not Sweden that is sorry about or that is the big contribution. Rather, it is the people of flesh and blood who give of their knowledge and commitment, who travel far away in the world and provide advice and input in environments that are very tense, serious and dangerous. These people are worthy of our respect. They are also worthy of us from the Riksdag and the Armed Forces to ensure that we do what we can to ensure that they have the best conditions to fulfil their task. It is also, as Kenneth G. Forslund mentioned, in this decision. We can go up with resources if necessary for urgent reasons, and that is extremely important. I often think of our veterans, and I often think of those who work in international service and in humanitarian organisations abroad. We'll do what we talk about. They dare to stand up for something that is almost impossible, and they make a difference. We in Sweden will be extremely happy and proud that we have, and we will ensure that they have the best conditions.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-72	Mr President, I would like to Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, not because it lacks resources and resources, but because of long-term conflicts and wars. Since the 1970s, the Afghan people have been severely affected by this very thing. For over 35 years, Sweden and the Swedish population have been involved and supported not least through the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which has received resources to be active in Afghanistan, to provide young people with education – women as well as men – and to provide support for health care, rehabilitation of disabled people and so on. Since 2013, Afghanistan has been the largest recipient of Swedish aid. Sweden has long-standing relations with Afghanistan. Since the 1930s, we have had diplomatic relations. We are in the country to support the Afghan people, for reconstruction, for security and for long-term state and peace-building. We know that without security there is no development. Wars and conflicts are the greatest threat to achieving Agenda 2030: breaking poverty and creating the conditions for people to realise dreams. Wars and conflicts drive people on the run, and Afghanistan is one of the countries from which the most people have fled – 2.7 million scattered around the world and 1.2 million IDPs. However, according to the UNHCR, since the fall of the Taliban government 5.7 million Afghans have returned to Afghanistan to see opportunities, thanks, of course, to our presence and our great efforts not only from Sweden but from many countries in the world. Afghanistan's security situation remains very serious. The Afghan Government is asking the outside world for support, and the UN is providing support. Sweden has been in place for military purposes since 2002. For three years we have changed our contribution, and we are now doing so in the form of advice to the security forces. Sweden, as has already been shown, is one of the 39 countries that are gathering to support the Afghan Government and the Afghan security forces in being able to take real responsibility for the security of the Afghan people themselves. As far as saying that is concerned, leave it to others: there are quite a few others there, and it is by sharing responsibility and making efforts together that we manage to be there. It is not a country's own responsibility, but it is together that we can manage to build security. Mr President, I would like to When I hear the debate in this House, I am thinking of an Afghan expression: you have clocks. We have time. It is about long-termness, and it is about being able to hold on and endure if we are to be able to meet the commitment we have made. I have been there myself and have seen our military efforts but also civilian efforts. Having met, for example, Afghan women, I know their importance. I also remember the debate about the women who felt that thanks to these efforts they were able to take part in elections. I thought about it at the elections in October, so late, but now it could still be carried out. We're hearing reports of $3 million. I see that the Afghan Electoral Commission reports 4 million who went to the polls. It looks a little shaky when it comes to statistics, and we have not yet seen the final result. However, it was possible to hold an election to Parliament for the first time in eight years. Mr President, I would like to It is important with our Swedish presence, our contribution to the broad effort, and it is important that we contribute both militarily and with assistance to build and develop and give hope to people who then dare and want to return. But it is important that we are there for other reasons too. We have had a discussion on objectives; it has emerged from the previous debate. We have had it for a long time in terms of our efforts, and those of us who have been following the issues for some time can see that we have now taken steps forward in clarifying the objectives. More can still be done, but it is not simply. I think that is clear from the fact that there are not as many clear proposals as anyone else have put forward on clear objectives for our military operations and our presence. But it is clear that the objectives apply both to aid and to military operations – objectives that can be followed. I would also like to emphasise what the report says, namely that our presence means eyes and ears that can observe, see and report on crimes against humanity or war crimes. It is an important signal that we follow up and have reason to follow. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to join in the thanks that have been given to the Swedish women and men who have done and will make efforts to make the decisions we take in this House a reality. I would like to extend that thanks to the families, the relatives, who also take a great responsibility for this to be possible. Thank you all! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-HzfDnfYDSsLTYJBAjtwd6F	Mr President, I would like to To assist Afghanistan's security forces with training and advice, the Government considers that Sweden's participation in the Resolute Support Mission NATO operation will be extended and will remain in 2019. In addition to advice and training, the purpose of the Swedish operation is to strengthen the ability of the security forces to meet the security threats that exist in the country. As has emerged from the debate so far, there is no doubt that the security situation in Afghanistan is deeply worrying and that political contradictions and armed conflict have long destabilised the country. During 2018, the armed conflict has worsened. According to the UN, 5 000 civilian deaths were claimed during the first six months of the year. At the same time, the number of attacks, attacks, against civil international groups and organisations is worrying. Attacks against social functions and civilians were also carried out in connection with the parliamentary elections just over a month ago, on 20 October. To this shall be added a general uncertainty as to how much of the country is actually controlled by the government of Kabul. Taliban, Islamic State and other militant Islamic groupings are constantly carrying out terrorist attacks in different parts of the country. The aim is, of course, to spread terror among the population and to portray the central government of Kabul as weak. In other words, the situation is deeply serious. Unfortunately, as long as violence is not replaced by negotiations and reconciliation, most point to the fact that Afghanistan's population is still a long way from peaceful development. Against this background, it is clear that Afghanistan still needs international military support and assistance in dealing with security issues. As the government points out in the bill, the deteriorating security situation is putting great strain on the Afghan defence and security forces. The ability to manage security is currently unevenly distributed across the country. The need for a continued Swedish military contribution to the NATO Resolute Support Mission is therefore obvious. The long-term support of the Government of Afghanistan in the work for stability and security is urgent. It is correct in substance, and it is reasonable for us from the Swedish side to do what we can to assist severely vulnerable fellow human beings. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that we in this House agree that military violence is not the solution to world conflicts. At the same time, we recognise that there are situations where military action is required as an ultimate measure to prevent serious abuse and violations of international law. In Afghanistan and also in Iraq, which we are going to debate about for a moment, it is about precisely that kind of action. Talibans, militant Islamism in various guises, threaten stability and democracy, but also the lives and future of innocent people. That is why the efforts made are so important – they protect civilians from severe suffering, and they contribute to international peace and security. Against this background, Mr President, it is relevant to ask whether Sweden is making a sufficient contribution to this work and whether the efforts we are making mean that we take our share of the responsibility. From the Christian Democrats' side, we believe that Sweden should do more, should take greater responsibility in the work to counter threats to international peace and security. When, as the government rightly points out in the bill, Swedish personnel do not participate in combat functions, this means that other countries' military personnel are allowed to take a greater share of the responsibility. The fact that, as is also pointed out in the bill, Sweden's contribution is relatively small and that the possibility of evaluating the impact of the Swedish contribution on the overall safety development is limited also means that other countries are forced to do more. This does not mean that Sweden's efforts in Afghanistan, or for that matter in Iraq, are in any way insignificant. Let us be clear about that. I am pleased that so many people have pointed out from this speaker's seat earlier that the Swedish Armed Forces' personnel are making outstanding efforts and are widely appreciated for their professionalism and know-how. As Swedes, we have reason to be proud of all the women and men in uniform who over the years have taken on the great and difficult task of trying to build security in Afghanistan, and that also applies to the personnel in Iraq. They're needed and make a difference. But as a nation, Sweden should be able to do more. Like the majority of the committee, the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that international law, including human rights and international humanitarian law, is the basis for the Swedish contribution to Afghanistan. As a party, we also emphasise that the Swedish military contribution is part of Sweden's long-term and broad commitment to Afghanistan and the Afghan people. The fact that in this debate we are focusing on security and military action must not obscure the fact that aid, humanitarian aid and support for democracy – not least for Afghan civil society – is what, in the long term, creates the conditions for a better life and for peace in Afghanistan. Those efforts must continue. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-103	Mr President, I would like to Since the overthrow of the Taliban regime at the end of 2001, Sweden has participated in a comprehensive international engagement in Afghanistan. The main aim has been to promote peace, strengthen security and assist with the reconstruction of the country. Our commitment has included military, security-building efforts. We also have a long tradition of diplomatic and political bilateral cooperation with the Afghan leadership. We have also been working in the country for a long time with development cooperation to combat poverty and promote stability and democracy. Mr President, I would like to We must, of course, evaluate the efforts that have been made so far. The composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has also made clear in broad agreement the importance of regular follow-up of ongoing efforts. We have also highlighted the importance of clear goals and targets and that the Swedish added value in relation to other countries' efforts should be given a prominent role in the analysis when we enter into efforts. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight in particular how Sweden's feminist foreign policy is translated into concrete action by UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, which is being implemented as a fundamental and integral part of the RSM Operation Plan in Afghanistan. Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that a difficult and complex situation such as that in Afghanistan does not change in a moment, but requires long-term and strategic work. Nevertheless, Sweden has been raised in favour of leaving Afghanistan. As we in the composite committee write in the report, the number of attacks on international organisations and aid organisations is still high. Only in the first half of 2018 has the armed conflict affected over 5 000 civilians, of which nearly 1 700 were killed. Respect for human rights is very poor, and women and girls have a marginalised role and are exposed to threats and violence. If no country assists when it's really difficult, what happens then? Should we leave Afghanistan in a situation where the conflict is getting worse and security is the main obstacle to its development? Should we leave the country when we see that the ability of humanitarian actors to reach out is limited by the security situation and threats? I believe that this is a problem of security policy. Mr President, I would like to It is important that we see the contribution to the RSM as one of several parts of the Swedish commitment to assist Afghanistan in achieving long-term stability in the country. Sweden has extensive development cooperation with a focus on peace building, democratic state building, increased gender equality and a strengthened capacity and role for civil society in terms of human rights. I therefore call for the proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-112	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation to be approved and to express our great thanks and respect for our Swedish soldiers and their relatives, both the soldiers who participate in Afghanistan and those who participate in other parts of the world. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Afghans who help and support the effort and the Swedes on the ground. I would also like to thank the other countries involved in the operation and their soldiers. This is international cooperation. The effort is not made by individual countries; we are doing it together. We have everyone as human beings a moral responsibility to help other people wherever in the world they are, especially when human rights are violated. Afghanistan is a country that has been torn by war for many years. It is now one of the poorest countries in the world. And it is individuals who are affected in such situations. Young people get involved in conflicts they haven't started and die in battles. Poverty and violence are a breeding ground for extremism and terrorism. Children are not allowed to grow up safely and are prevented from attending school. Mr President, I would like to When a girl in Afghanistan is denied schooling or when a boy is forced into battle, we in safe Sweden have a moral responsibility to help. The operation in Afghanistan should be renewed. The situation and developments are worrying. To withdraw our support now would be nothing but reprehensible. Peace, human rights and development require not only aid, but also military support. In fact, just doing one would be quite irresponsible. Mr President, I would like to Mr Hjerling, Member of the Green Party, spoke about feminist foreign policy. We shall not go into a debate on it now, but let us say that often it is the most feminist one can do to put boots on the ground in other countries and help when human rights are violated and, above all, when girls are exposed. It could be the most feminist thing to do in this world. I believe that if you are to make such an effort and take on this kind of responsibility, you need long-term and inherit only goals, and that is our main objection. That is why I would once again like to support the Liberals' reservation and our motion to accompany it.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-120	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the last debate on the issue of Afghanistan, our fundamental position is that international action should take place under the auspices of the UN, because we see the UN as the primary cooperation body for managing conflicts and safeguarding peace and security. I also said that there is, of course, a need to depart from this principle from time to time. The intervention in Iraq is such an exception. The operation in Iraq takes place following the invitation of the Iraqi Government and has a mandate in international law. The fight against the terror cult of the Islamic State has been the superior. That is why we have supported this effort from the outset and are doing so even now under certain conditions. Our country's support for Iraq in the fight against IS has been greatly appreciated, and relations between Sweden, the KRG region and the Peshmergan are very good. This has meant that our country has contributed a greater opportunity for humanitarian aid to civilians in the country and an increased opportunity for self-defence when terrorists have struck. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally in favour of this kind of work and believe that the Swedes who served in the country deserve a great deal of thanks for their efforts. For a number of reasons, the intervention has mainly been directed to the area around the capital of the KRG region Erbil and the Kurdish region rather than to the rest of Iraq. The KRG region has identified itself with a relatively good democratic and economic development and as one of the main and most effective forces in the fight against the Islamic State. The Kurds have also appreciated the Swedish contribution. When I visited Erbil last May, this was a clear message to us Swedes. Our soldiers have made and made a difference. Recently, the Islamic State has been pushed back. They no longer control any land adjacent to the KRG region. On the other hand, IS cells have struck in several areas, which is why we believe that there are still good reasons to provide training for Peshmerga forces in Iraq. We have also had to see increased wear and tear in Iraq, which is very worrying. Despite diplomatic mediation efforts by the KRG region, the Iraqi Government has chosen to attack and occupy former KRG-controlled areas. These attacks, largely composed of Iran-supported Shiamis, have made use of American tanks and materiel intended to combat IS and other terrorist groups. It is therefore clear that it is completely unreasonable for Sweden to contribute to supporting a government that uses international support to hit its own population. Following the last elections, it is also clear that the two largest parties in the country are radical Shia-Muslim parties whose armed branches have been guilty of major war crimes. Iraq's rule also has very good relations with Iran, which has gained increasing influence in the country. In view of the circumstances, there is no reason to continue in the current direction. The Swedish military contribution through the training effort in Iraq should, in our opinion, only be directed to the KRG region provided that the support is used as intended and that the KRG continues to try to resolve the new crisis with the Iraqi Government through diplomacy. The support should be intended to combat the Islamic State and secure self-defense today and in the future. The Swedish military training efforts should not go to troops directly or indirectly controlled by the Iraqi government in Baghdad. Of course, this effort takes place on the basis of an invitation from the Iraqi Government, but we also have the right to choose for ourselves what offers we wish to make available. If you don't want it, we don't have to participate either. The contribution will be directed to the KRG region provided that the governance of the KRG respects and protects minorities and continues to build on diplomacy. Mr President, I would like to When IS took large parts of the Nineves plain in northern Iraq, the Kurdish forces and the Iraqi army fled. This had disastrous consequences for the local population, which consists mainly of Christians and Yazidians. The Christian and Yazid people were left to their fate, with horribly similar consequences to genocide. The UN Human Rights Council also stated in a resolution in September 2014 that IS abuses can constitute crimes against humanity and war crimes. The events of 2014 clearly show that the Christian and Yazidian populations have had no guarantee of support from outside forces, although they have received important support from the Kurdish Peshmerga forces during the conflict. As the policy in Iraq is strongly ethnically emphasised, it is important that all sections of the population have the opportunity to obtain protection from military forces. Therefore, the coalition also needs to support the building of Christians and – at the rate they are formed – Yazidian self-defense groups. Christian and Yazidians are among the weakest minorities in the country, and their ability to defend themselves is a prerequisite for the creation of the autonomous province promised by the Iraqi Government. Mr President, I would like to The UN expert on minority issues has described the development of the area as devastating and irreversible. In the wake of the Iraqi military offensive in spring 2015, serious violations of the Sunni population have also been reported. The war has created a very serious humanitarian situation in some places, and at present there are 11 million people in need of humanitarian aid. At the same time, Oja's compilation shows that aid organisations demand approximately SEK 3 billion to deal with the situation. Compare this with the fact that the new arrivals will cost the Swedish taxpayers more than SEK 60 billion, according to data from Statskontoret. We believe that the government should use Sweden's limited resources where they do the most good and greatly increase support for humanitarian efforts in the immediate region of the crisis. This was also what the Kurdish representatives called for during my visit to the KRG. The Minister for Foreign Relations, Falah Mustafa Bakir, was clear about this after a question about what we in Sweden can contribute. He said, just as we in the Swedish Democrats have been saying for years, that it is better that we help the refugees down there than that they should get to Europe and finally Sweden, as it costs much more to help them in Sweden with our standard of living. We can help so many more down there, he said. But I can say, Mr President, that the committee chooses to back up our proposal to increase humanitarian intervention in conflict areas. I am, of course, sorry about that. But it is not just a question of increasing humanitarian efforts. In order for the training effort to be able to support the forces effectively, we believe that it should be broadened by the government examining the need for and opportunities for material support. It is important to stress in this context that it is not a matter of war material for combat, but of other specialised material support. Such support could include communication and healthcare equipment, mobile internet connections, computers and so on. The visit to Erbil last May revealed precisely the need for material support. When we were in the field and took note of how the Swedish soldiers trained the Kurdish peshmerga units in, among other things, health care revealed the lack of peshmerga on proper medical equipment. They had to use rags and sticks instead of proper dressings. Although they trained to put pressure bandages with Western equipment, since they are most likely not to have access to it, it was sticks and rags that were used. Similarly, many of these young soldiers had to buy their own uniforms and boots or boots when there is a lack of resources. I had hoped that more people in the committee could be there with their own eyes and ears to see the need for material support, but unfortunately the committee has chosen to reject our proposal on this too. Finally, Mr President, there is much to do in helping the minorities living in the plain of Nineves to retain their identity, to contribute to the reconstruction of the terrible ravages of the Islamic State and to support the self-defence forces that provide protection and security for the population. The fact that the area is now being rebuilt is extremely important for the prevention of new conflicts. I support the S verige democrats' reservation 2.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-144	Mr President, I would like to I visited Mr Hawler – or Mr Erbil, depending on the language spoken – to participate as an election observer in the vote on independence. I had the opportunity to talk to a lot of people who had participated in battles, both Kurds and representatives of the various other minorities that exist in Iraq. What they told me was quite troubling. It is not only the case that Iraq does not respect the right of the various minorities – including the Kurds – to self-determination and the right to decide over their own future. It is also the case that there have been repeated reports of abuses by the Iraqi forces against both Kurds and other minorities. Of course, we must safeguard the right of the Kurds to self-determination. Of course, this should also apply to the rights of other minorities. Of course, we should ensure that the Kurds, who have proved to be very successful at it, have the resources and support to combat Daish's progress, or at least the remnants that still exist. When this change is implemented, there is a risk that the Iraqi forces will be legitimised rather than legitimising the Kurdish forces by being present in Kurdistan. I and we, Mr President, are not satisfied with the answers we have received and the guarantees we have received that it will not be perceived by anyone as that, by legitimising Iraqi forces, we are also stained by and risk legitimising in the eyes of some people the abuses committed by Iraqi forces. Mr President, I would like to When my friend and I were in Hawler to watch the elections, things were peaceful. We got in all over the place. It looked like it was going well. However, when the results came and the party had subsided, Iraqi forces began to advance because they did not acknowledge their right to decide their own future. I was able to get out of the country quickly. My friend, who is Kurdish from the beginning, found it harder to get out. His family was scared. At that time they were not afraid of Daish, or IS, who had already been fought by Kurds and others, but were afraid of the Iraqi forces. It is a little strange to make the changes that are being proposed and which risk further legitimising the Iraqi forces when we know that they sometimes spread fear in their own population and, moreover, occasionally, perhaps quite often, committing abuse, violating international law or human rights and in various ways denying minorities the right to decide for themselves their own future and lives. I think we have a responsibility to ensure that this is not the case. I believe that we have a responsibility to take further action that will increase the protection and support of minorities, including in the plain of Nineves, from us. Against this background, I would like to endorse our reservation 3, which deals precisely with the legitimisation and risk of the abuses of the Iraqi forces.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-152	Mr President, I would like to We now have to deal with continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq and thus our contribution to the international coalition against IS/ Daish. A majority of the parliamentary parties agree on this. That is why I am in favour of the proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, on which I have had the privilege of chairing the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Firstly, Sweden's international efforts are an important contribution to strengthening the work for peace and security. Secondly, by participating in these efforts, we are also strengthening our own security and contributing to our security policy influence by listening to the desire to participate in the international work against terror and extremism. At the same time, we must adopt a holistic approach to the actions. What do we want to achieve? How do we view the long-term perspective? These are questions we need to analyse and find answers to in any decision on new or extended actions. All of this is by no means to be taken lightly or simply. We also need to ask ourselves where, in what context and with whom Sweden should make international efforts. In order to create long-term sustainability, we also need to improve the interaction between civil and military parts. Mr President, I would like to The committee's proposal is that the Riksdag admits that the Government will make available a Swedish armed force consisting of a maximum of 220 persons in Iraq until 31 December 2019. Iraq has, since the beginning of civilization, been a regional power, albeit not in the state form we know today. As such, Iraq has seen its fair share of conflicts through the centuries. Even during much of our time, Iraq has been characterised by violence and death. After Saddam Hussein's brutal rule, there were hopes for peace and freedom. Instead, there was invasion and civil war. In 2006, the Iraqi branch of Al Qaeda and smaller Sunni organisations were united in what came to be called the Islamic State in Iraq. After years of terrorist attacks in Iraq, the IS/ Daish proclaimed its caliphate in 2014, or perhaps so-called caliphate. Rapid military conquests were followed by mass executions and mass exodus. In front of the eyes of the world was a new force and cruelty of a rare kind. It was a barbarism and a chain of abuse and atrocities. In November this year UN representatives stated that IS/ Daish is responsible for more than 200 mass graves in northern and western Iraq. It is believed that 12 000 people can be buried in these. Victims of violence against dissidents, Kurds, Christians, other believers and Muslims did not please IS/ Daish. The testimony of survivors is hideous. One of these is the 2018 Nobel Laureate Nadia Murad, who managed to escape from her captivity. But six of her brothers and her mother were murdered. Too many share the hideous fates of Nadias and her family. Mr President, I would like to At the end of June 2014, Iraq asked the UN for help. In September 2014, Sweden joined the global coalition which, at the invitation of Iraq, is conducting a military training operation. This is the basis of international law. 79 others contribute to this, and the entire coalition's efforts include training and training of defence forces in Iraq and Syria. We're there together. Last December, the Iraqi Government declared victory over IS/ Daish. But even though the central organization of terror has gone on a major defeat in terms of terrain, men and heavy weapons systems, it has in no way been knocked out. In August 2018, the UN Secretary-General estimated that the terrorist network currently has approximately 10 000 members in Iraq. At the end of October, IS/ Daish Baghuz withdrew in eastern Syria and has thus come across weapons and vehicles. Iraq sent troops, fearing that the IS/ Daish would like to transfer the remaining forces to Western Iraq, where there are still strongholds of terror. As the network is still active in the country, the global coalition and the Swedish Armed Forces consider that there is a continued need for military action. The assessment is that IS/ Daish remains a real threat to Iraq's stability. Given the overall security situation in Iraq and the continuing strong threat to the Swedish force, there is a risk that Swedish personnel may be subjected to armed violence. As in the past, therefore, continuous threat and risk assessments are of paramount importance. These are now all the more important as the Swedish operation, based on the needs of the Iraqi defence forces, will be able to operate at all the bases of the coalition. It should be added that the operation changed its tasks. The fact that the Government reports to the Riksdag or relevant committees on the security situation of the operation is therefore of the utmost importance. If the Swedish force effort needs to be increased permanently, the Riksdag needs to make a new decision. Mr President, I would like to It means a significant responsibility for us to send Swedish women and men to peace-promoting missions and crisis management operations abroad. There must be defined objectives whose formulations are continuously reviewed to ensure that the objectives set are follow-up. In view of any decision to extend the military training operation in Iraq, it needs to be evaluated on the basis of an overall assessment. IS/ Daish has destroyed the lives of an enormous number of people. The need for continued support for Iraq, for the people, for the reconstruction of communities, for infrastructure and for institutions is considerable. Sweden will and should support both aid and civilian reconstruction and continue to contribute to the fight against international terrorism. Mr President, I would like to I would also like, as chairman of the composite committee which dealt with both this issue of Iraq and the previous one on Afghanistan, to address me directly to the Armed Forces and its personnel, who are going out on dangerous missions: Thank you for your contribution to international peace and security! We have great respect for all of you women and men who, with their own lives as a contribution, act for our country, for the interests of the nation and on behalf of our elected members of the Riksdag, who today give the go-ahead to this continued Swedish participation.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-168	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by referring to what I said in the previous debate on the Swedish operation in Afghanistan in terms of the seriousness that prevails when we decide this afternoon, when we are debating and when we were preparing the decision in the past. This proposal on the operation in Iraq is about, as we have heard in various speeches, that 70 people should participate in the operation with the opportunity to send another 150 people if the Swedish force had to be rescued in any way. We will act, and we are already acting today, at an invitation from the Iraqi Government which originates from a request from the Iraqi Government to the UN in 2014 for help in combating Daish. The task we are working on is to train the Iraqi military, and it is about protection and guarding. Daish is to some extent fought geographically but certainly not defeated as an organization. Daish remains a threat to the security of Iraq in particular. The goal of standing up to Daish remains. Another important objective is that Iraq should be able to take responsibility for the security of its own country in the long term. Then the Iraqi defence forces need to be strengthened, not least in terms of knowledge. For the Swedish part, it is an important goal for Swedish personnel to work in accordance with UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. We want to promote democracy, cohesion and long-term stability of Iraq. In Iraq, too, it is not just a military operation, even if it is the one that we are deciding on today in this House. It is also about a long-term commitment to Iraq's development, where development aid is also an important component. Sweden has a five-year development strategy for Iraq that we work with. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to thank once again in this case the staff and relatives involved in this and other international efforts. In doing so, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-173	Mr President, I would like to Sweden, together with 73 other countries, is part of the global action against Daish. Sweden is part of the coalition's core group. Daish – this cult of terror and murder – has developed in a lack of security and as a result of the devastating Iraq war and the insecurity that has been created in the region. Daish's ravages have struck everyone in the area, anyone who does not support their regime, their interpretations or their claims for power. They have hit Muslims first and foremost, especially Shia. But we have seen how Daish has tried to wipe out and commit genocide against minorities such as Yazidians and Christians. We have so many Witnesses who tell us about the horrors that followed in Daish's footsteps. The Nobel Prize winner, mentioned earlier by Hans Wallmark, is just one of the brave women who have told us. This builds knowledge of what is happening in the wake of ethnic conflicts and in building a struggle for a group against other groups. In all countries that oppress minorities, which incite dissidents and set ethnic groups against each other, peace and security are threatened. We have seen it so many times before, and we see it in Iraq too, of course. It first affects ethnic groups, minorities and dissidents, but in the long run it affects the entire population. When Sweden participates in the Iraq operation, or in the fight against Daish that it is about, it is about that we want to contribute to building Iraq's security. The foundation of international law is that we are invited by the Iraqi Government. It is also supported by the UN and thus has a legal basis in international law. We are there to try to prevent new military conflicts. Swedish presence in the educational effort is also part of monitoring, with ears and eyes, crimes against humanity regardless of who commits them. When I read some of the reservations, I see that our invitation would be about several parts of Iraq. But, Mr President, that is not the case. We are invited by the Iraqi Government to support Iraqi security forces, and Peshmerga is part of Iraq's security forces. We have been in Erbil, and we will now be moved and have the opportunity to be in other areas and do other tasks. But we do it all the time, and we have done it all the time, to secure the fight against Daish and to secure the Iraqi government's ability to build security throughout the country. If you build security throughout the country, you also manage many of the different groupings that exist in Iraq, and you manage to live up to the constitution that has actually been agreed and that will give autonomy not only to the KRG but also to the Nineves plain and the Christians. It is therefore important that we continue the fight to ensure that Daish does not take back territory and that we push them back, and preferably not to another country, and that we also manage to give the population – those attracted by these tones – another hope and another future. Mr President, I would like to We can see that since we have pushed Daish back from territories in Iraq, some 3.2 million internally displaced persons have managed to return to their villages. Of course, it also builds a long-term opportunity for people to return, to see hope and to be involved in building up. As in the case of Afghanistan, the Centre Party sees Responsibility to Protect as an important effort. It is about being involved in preventing, as we are doing with our aid. It's about being involved and safe in a conflict. But it is also a matter of being involved in rebuilding. It is also something that we do in Iraq and want to do, namely to create opportunities for people who return to be able to start building a new life as well. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank all the women and men and their families and relatives who enable Sweden to assist in the fight against Daish and in the fight to give the Iraqi people opportunities for peace and development. Many thanks for your efforts and for making this possible for us. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-180	Mr President, I would like to Iraq is a country whose modern history has been paved by dictatorship, conflict, war and the lack of human rights. Among the first demonstrations I took part in as a political active one were the very demonstrations that were held against the US invasion of Iraq in 2003. We all know how it developed. Reports of civilian casualties, unimaginable violence and torture reached those of us who continued to demonstrate against the war. Iraq still suffers from decades of war, conflict and lack of human rights. In particular, minorities and vulnerable groups are affected. In recent years we have often been reached by reports on how Daish has taken over large areas, which of course has hit the civilian population hard. In 2014, the UN received requests from the Iraqi Government for assistance in the fight against Daish. The request was answered by the UN Security Council, which called on countries to help train Iraq's military in order to prevent and counter terrorist acts. These UN-led efforts are thus supported by international law. For the Left Party, the support of international law and the leadership of the UN is a prerequisite for us to allow Sweden to participate in this type of international effort. The Swedish Parliament makes annual decisions on Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq, and the Left Party supports this effort. We therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved. We see that educational efforts are a piece of the puzzle to help the Iraqis rebuild their country, protect minorities and civilians, and strengthen human rights. The Left Party believes that it is particularly important for Sweden to focus on women's rights in accordance with UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. The Left Party has a special opinion in committee, in which we are opposed to Sweden contributing one person to NATO-led operation NATO Mission Iraq. The Left Party is critical that Sweden's defence is increasingly integrated into NATO structures and with NATO defence organisations. Although we can see that Daish has been defeated and weakened in Iraq, they represent a real threat to Iraq's stability in the future. The Left Party therefore agrees that the need for action remains, but at the same time we believe that the effort in Iraq should be phased out gradually. The goal is a democratic Iraq with long-term stability that respects human rights, where children and young people can educate themselves and see a secure future, where women have the right to decide over their own lives and where all communities and minorities can live in security, with the right to their own culture and language and the right to be included and involved in the country's future. In the future, Sweden will actively support and help Iraq with humanitarian aid aimed at strengthening democracy, the right to education and women's rights. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would also like to thank the Swedish people who have participated and are still participating in the operation in Iraq. It is a great sacrifice both for yourself and for your families and loved ones, and for this you have our great gratitude.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-188	Mr President, I would like to In order to contribute to increased capabilities of Iraq's defence forces and counter the threat from the Islamic State, Sweden has since 2015 participated with military personnel in the northern part of Iraq. The Swedish armed force is part of an educational effort and, as we have heard, operates within the framework of the international coalition against IS. After the international coalition under the leadership of the United States has fought back IS militaryly, this terrorist network has been greatly weakened. No province in Iraq is controlled today by IS, and already last December the Iraqi Government declared victory over the militant Islamist group. This is a development to be welcomed, Mr President. At the same time, it is clear that the threat of Islamism is not gone. Religious extremism lives on in Iraq, in new forms and in new places where circumstances permit. The central government in Baghdad therefore considers that the international efforts to strengthen Iraq's defence forces need to continue, which means for Sweden that the government is now proposing an extension of the mandate for the Swedish force contribution. Four years have passed since the Islamic State moved through Iraq and committed some of the worst crimes against humanity of the 21st century to date. To this day, mass graves are discovered where thousands of victims of this terror cult were ruthlessly dumped during a few August weeks of 2014. The abuses – the genocide – that this is about did not happen by accident. Islamism was on the rise, and the thumb screws had already been tightened for ethnic groups such as Chaldeans, Syrians, Assyrians and Yazidians. The state of lawlessness in the wake of the 2003 Iraq war enabled extreme groups to attack and oppress Christians and other communities without risk. The number of abuse and murder of Christians from these years can be counted in thousands. In Iraq's second largest city of Mosul, some one hundred thousand Christians lived before IS began its ravages. Today, the city's historical ethno-eligenous mosaic is beaten to pieces. Because of political contradictions and instability, Christian refugees have not been able to return to Mosul. In nearby towns and villages on the plain of Nineves, the situation is somewhat brighter: After IS has been beaten back, nearly half of the population has returned. More than one third of the homes and churches that have been vandalized and destroyed have been built up. At the same time, the concerns of the population are very real. When I visited Mosul and the Nineves plain this summer, both returning internally displaced persons and political representatives and church leaders spoke of a deep sense of betrayal. The memory of how Christian populations in 2014 were disarmed by Kurdish peshmerga and then left to their fate remains. The disappointment that both Iraqi and Kurdish military retreated when IS attacked means that security guarantees are now required for Christians to dare and be able to return to their historic homelands. Mr President, I would like to Among the population today, hopes grow that future security in these areas can be built with the help of UN missions and blue helmets. At the same time, there is a lack of both financial resources and political will in the outside world for this type of action. On the contrary, it is realistic to force the Iraqi Government, through political pressure, to implement an earlier decision on political autonomy for the Nineves Plain. Within the framework of self-government, Christian communities and Yazidians could build their own social institutions and protective forces. It would also allow targeted international support for education, legal certainty and public services, which is, of course, a prerequisite for positive social development. Support for political self-government is at the moment central. At the same time, it is clear that long-term solutions and a secure future for Iraq's minorities cannot be built as long as Islamism poisons society. Changing attitudes, counteracting violent extremism and preventing ethnorelic cleansing requires greater international responsibility. Against this background, the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that Sweden, albeit to a small extent, is participating in the international coalition against IS. We support the proposal to extend the mandate, while stressing the importance of targeted humanitarian aid and increased financial support for reconstruction. Without more effective reconstruction and without functioning security arrangements, the thousands of people who fled IS will not return. I therefore call for the proposal of the composite committee to be approved.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-197	Mr President, I would like to Daish's territorial control over Iraq is over. Unfortunately, however, Iraq's problems are far from solved with this. The military struggle against Daish has seemed to unite the country's political groups, but with the fighting now largely ended, religious and political divisions are threatening to arise. The Syrian conflict continues and contributes to great uncertainty in neighbouring countries. Terror attacks and other serious security problems are still common. In short, the security situation is still very unstable. It is in this light that Sweden and other countries' contributions to Iraqi security should be seen. Negative developments in the country have consequences for security in the region but also globally. It is also important to emphasise that the Swedish armed contribution to the military training operation forms part of Sweden's very extensive support to Iraq to promote a democratic, cohesive and long-term stable Iraq. Sweden is one of the world's largest donors of unallocated support to UN agencies and international organisations engaged in humanitarian activities in Iraq. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish military training operation aims to enable Iraq to continue to resist Daish and create the conditions for the country to be able to be responsible for its security in the long term. If we can contribute to increasing Iraq's stability and ability to manage its own security in the long term, that is very much to be gained. Swedish military has a high level of competence both in the military aspects and in human rights and gender equality. Sweden's feminist foreign policy is translated into concrete action when UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security is prioritised and implemented as part of the coalition's operational plan in Iraq. Mr President, I would like to In the committee's report, we have underlined the importance of dealing with the root causes of conflict in order to combat terrorism in the long term. The key to a democratic and long-term stable Iraq is that all groups feel included and involved in the country's governance. The committee has also made clear in broad agreement the importance of regular follow-up of ongoing efforts and highlighted the importance of clear objectives and methods to ensure that the objectives are met. The bill proposes that Sweden continue to support a maximum of 70 people to improve the security situation in Iraq. The Swedish contribution shall not have conflicting tasks. The overall security situation in Iraq means that the threat is still high against the Swedish force, which means that we need to follow the situation on the ground extra closely. In the event of a situation in which our troops need to leave the country in order to ensure their safety, an additional evacuation force will be added if a maximum of 150 people are added. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country that wants and can take international responsibility. We do so through our development policy and our foreign policy. We also do so by participating in this type of international effort. By forming part of the very broad coalition of countries supporting the Iraqi Government, we are helping to build security together with others. Sweden's contribution to this type of effort is important. I support the committee's proposal.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-209	Mr President, I would like to What we are experiencing now, until 29 March next year, will hopefully go down in history as a peak Europe. With Britain's withdrawal, the Union will never be as strong economically, it will never have the same diplomatic weight and the internal market will never have the same attractiveness for businesses, investment and highly skilled workers. The reasons why the British people took the courageous decision to leave the Union are as many as they are well-founded, and they put the document we are debating today in a particularly bad light. The Commission's work programme does not contain a single letter to address all the extremely serious shortcomings with which the Union is suffering and which have led to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. The fact is that behind the chimera of democracy, freedom and values with which the Union's representatives are happy there is a reality, and the reality is that both the Union's administration and several of its Member States suffer from very serious problems of corruption, a great democratic deficit and a blind belief in future expansion. In the European Union, everything from professional licences and citizenship to procurement contracts, legislation and even people for sale to the highest bidder. Let me illustrate this with a few brief examples. Every year, Romania receives huge amounts of support from the EU's so-called Structural Funds. In the last five-year period alone, no less than 5 700 cases of fraud and other irregularities and irregularities were detected against these funds in this country alone. However, given the mildly unsatisfactory functioning of the Romanian judicial system, only a handful of cases were prosecuted. The low level of ambition in anti-corruption work is likely to have something to do with the fact that Romania is led by a Social Democratic Party whose leader, Liviu Dragnea, is personally suspected of embezzling a few hundred million crowns from these structural funds. He has also been identified as the leader of a criminal syndicate by Romania's own anti-corruption police. This, of course, put the Romanian Government in a somewhat precarious situation, which was solved by firing the head of the anti-corruption police. Moreover, as if this were not enough, the Union is helping Dragnea to silence its critics. Romania's data inspection threatens digging journalists with hundreds of millions of dollars in fines if they rewrite his case – this in accordance with the EU Data Protection Regulation. A heavy fine, however, is perhaps the least worrying thing about journalists digging into European corruption. Journalist Ján Kuciak examined the links between the Slovak Social Democratic Government and organised crime. He was found earlier this year in his home with his common-law spouse, both shot to death. Journalist Daphne Galizia Galicia dug into the extensive Maltese corruption and, above all, the large-scale trade in European citizenship by the Social Democratic Government. She was blown to death by a car bomb earlier this year. The Bulgarian programme director, Viktoria Marinova, made room for two journalists who were digging about embezzlement and fraud within the EU Structural Funds. Shortly after, she was found raped and brutally murdered in a park in Bucharest. This list could be made further, but I think I have made my point. Mr President, I would like to The problem is so extensive that in 2017, the EU's own anti-corruption authority discovered fraud and called back money to a value exceeding the entire Swedish net contribution to the Union. To force already heavily weighted Swedish taxpayers to finance this circus and to allow the governments of these countries to pass Swedish law is particularly inappropriate. Unfortunately, none of this is of the least interest to the Commission. Mr President, I would like to The European administrative tradition also has a more direct impact on Sweden. Recently, Swedish Television reported that a large number of people with purchased diplomas work in Swedish healthcare. In 2016, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare issued approximately 200 professional licenses to nurses and doctors who have studied on paper in Romania, for example. The fact that diplomas are for sale in several Member States is not news but has been known for a long time, and it is of course completely dangerous for European patients. Once again, however, it is of no interest to the Commission. Mr President, I would like to Although the ambition to improve the functioning of the Union and to improve the functioning of the European administration is reflected in its absence, the ambition to make the Union bigger has never been so alive. Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, Montenegro and Macedonia are already candidate countries, and Bosnia, with its very exotic constitutional model based entirely on ethnonationalism, may become a candidate country as early as next year. At the same time, Armenia, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine are in the EU's so-called waiting room. In total, we are talking about 10 countries whose 70 million inhabitants are going into the common labour market, where they are in danger of having to compete with low wages and poor conditions. These are another ten countries that are suffering from widespread poverty with all that it means of theft, begging and trafficking in human beings. This means a further ten countries with major problems with organised crime, whose drug and arms smugglers are at the starting point of travelling freely across the borders that soon do not exist. It concerns a further ten countries whose governments will work hard to enlarge and make use of the already heavily oversized EU budget. Mr President, I would like to The problems created by the enlargement of Eastern Europe are probably small compared to what is expected when Sweden borders directly with countries such as Azerbaijan or Iran in the not too distant future. However, none of this seems to discourage the Commission in the slightest. The work programme states that the Union will be bigger, cost whatever it wants. Against this gloomy picture, one can of course object that countries such as Ukraine are far from meeting the EU's accession requirements, the so-called Copenhagen criteria, and that is true. On paper, Ukraine is far from meeting the Copenhagen criteria, that is true. But so is Greece, and that country has been a member for almost 40 years. Regrettably, looking between the fingers at systemic shortcomings in potential candidate countries is the rule rather than the exception in these contexts. I would also like to emphasise, of course, that the Swedish Democrats do not want any harm to these countries. Of course, we want friendly and close relations with them. But joining a political union is something quite different. This is not going to happen on our part. Mr President, I would like to In view of the poor functioning of the European administration in some places, I understand, in a way, that the EU troika, the Council, Parliament and the Commission are not exactly generous with transparency in the legislative process. If I were sitting in an assembly like the Commission, which has once been caught asking for billions in exchange for legislation, I might do the same. Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the use of so-called trilogue meetings – that is, unofficial, secret legislative preparations between the Commission, the Council and Parliament – has increased very strongly. Where the partners cannot agree, there is in itself an official conciliation procedure, which is also laid down by law, but since the conciliation procedure requires a greater degree of transparency, secret committees and secret legislative preparations are chosen instead. The reason for this is very simple. The European Union's working model is based on the fact that voters should have difficulty demanding responsibility, which is impossible when who said what in the legislative committee is classified. On the other hand, the group that has everything to gain from the secret legislative preparations is the more than 80 000 lobbyists who operate in Brussels – this is because it is much easier to influence politicians who know that the voters will not be transparent in the decision-making process. Tackling this so-called democratic deficit should be a top priority for any democratic person, but not for the Commission. Instead, the work programme speaks of new legal acts to regulate European companies in detail, binding common tax bases, further restrictions on freedom of expression, a new labour market authority, increased supranationality in foreign policy, and more. The result of all this is that the UK chose to leave the EU, and more countries are certainly on their way. I hope that Sweden is one of these countries. As it works today, the EU is clearly not a stable platform for cooperation in Europe. We therefore see it as our task to save those parts of European cooperation that work, such as the internal market, by phasing out those parts of cooperation that do not work. The Swedish Democrats therefore offer a vision of long-term sustainable, fair and intergovernmental cooperation. We want to see a European club without huge charges, without conditions for free trade, without binding common asylum system and definitely without a common army. The first steps towards such cooperation are what should be in the Commission's work programme, if one had had the sense to understand one's own best interests. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation of reasons.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-240	Mr President, I would like to The EU is at a crossroads. Either the challenges faced by listening to the citizens are being met, or the ever-increasing number of right-wing governments in the EU are being turned aside, which are now going in the wrong direction and where democratic space is shrinking. There are clear democratic criteria for joining the EU, but in recent times it has become increasingly clear that just because a country has become a democracy it does not mean that it always stands up for democratic rights and values. Europe has never been so rich and at the same time so unequal. The inequality between those who have and those who have not is spreading both within and between countries in Europe. The EU response to the financial crisis was even more of the right-wing policy that created the crisis. Banks were saved while the costs were borne by the rest of us. The growing inequality has created a breeding ground for those nationalists and racists who now want to restrict democracy and who, with the help of the right, take power in Europe through rhetoric and a policy that kicks down. At the same time, we are seeing developments within the European Union that are drawing away many of the citizens' values. More and more EU leaders are crying out in the sky about EU army, tax law and more federalism. This is a development of the EU that not many of the Swedes share, nor many of the parties in the Swedish Parliament. Yet the EU elite is moving in an increasingly federalist direction. One such area is foreign policy. The common foreign and security policy is intended to strengthen the voice of the EU in the wider world. Unfortunately, we see that the voice of Europe has often become weaker when countries do not dare to go ahead and show the way. In foreign policy you sometimes have to be brave and call a shovel a shovel. When you do not, those who shrink democracy and violate human rights gain more and more power. A recent example is that the EU was unable to impose new sanctions on Russia due to developments in Eastern Ukraine. The Left Party is opposed to a general trend towards greater coordination of foreign policy within the EU. We protect Sweden's ability to conduct an independent foreign policy and Sweden's ability to decide when and with which other countries we want to cooperate when it comes to meeting our major international challenges. The Left Party believes that effective decision-making processes are important but should not be at the expense of the influence of the Member States. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support Amendment No 2. More natural disasters, droughts and heat waves are to be expected. The consequences of climate change threaten both humans, animals and communities. Substantial changes in society are needed to mitigate the consequences, and it is urgent. There is a strong popular movement for a transition to a long-term sustainable society, but the opponents, who make money from today's system, are powerful. The Left cannot accept that the fossil industry and its lobbyists should decide our future. Their power in Europe must be broken. More ambitious cooperation is needed in Europe to tackle climate change. The Left Party wants to use the EU to set significantly higher climate ambitions for emission levels, energy efficiency and renewable energy requirements. By having higher climate ambitions, Sweden can inspire other countries to live up to the Paris Agreement and take the lead in climate policy. Since autumn 2015, when the number of asylum seekers in the EU increased sharply, migration policies in the EU and its Member States have changed in a very restrictive direction. The Commission has begun to pursue a policy of preventing migrants and refugees from coming to Europe. In particular, this policy has been based on support for the Libyan coastguard and agreements with African states where aid, trade and investment are conditional upon efforts to stop people fleeing. It is a policy that violates agreed principles on the use of aid, which goes against the spirit of the right of asylum and has resulted in gross violations of the human rights of migrants. Policies also reduce the chances of achieving sustainable development in these countries and lead to increased instability. The Left Party is very critical of the policy pursued by the Commission in this area with the approval of the EU Member States. I would therefore like the House to take note of our special opinion No 2. Mr President, I would like to We are seeing worrying developments in Europe in which democracy, human rights and women's rights are being called into question. Sexism, racism and homophobia are at the heart of the right-wing nationalist movements in Europe. The Left Party is pushing feminism forward in the EU. We demand economic justice for women. We defend the right to legal and safe abortions, the right to women's sexual and reproductive health and LGBTQ rights. We are fighting all forms of gender-based violence. We stand up to all the right-wing conservative forces that want to reduce our lives. The EU needs more feminists. There is also a need for secure employment with decent working conditions. It is the foundation of a safe society where we people can support our families and plan our lives. Whether we are Swedes, Poles or French, we all need decent work and safe working conditions. Today it doesn't look like that. EU labour market policy puts business needs above workers' rights in the labour market. Workers are being pitted against each other with the obvious risk of downward pressure on workers' rights. Serious companies with good employment conditions can be competed by companies that dump social conditions in order to squeeze prices. Often foreign labour is exploited ruthlessly. In this way jobs and working conditions are threatened. Often the foreign labour force is blamed for the dumped conditions, and racism is spreading in our workplaces. The solution is to ensure that workers from all countries, including those who work here temporarily, have conditions and wages that are at least as good as domestic workers. The Left Party would like the EU to include in the Treaties that decent working conditions and social rights are valued at least as high as the free movement of services and capital, a so-called social protocol. A social protocol makes respect for collective agreements and laws that protect workers a condition for labour mobility, which would be good for equality in Europe. The EU has been used as an instrument to spread the idea that policies should be governed by experts and bureaucrats, who should not be affected by popular opinion. The Left Party wants to democratise the EU by giving less power to the EU bureaucrats, Commissioners and judges and more power to us in the national parliaments. We want to limit the presence of lobbyists in the European Union. In a people-ruled Europe, EU rules should not be able to impose right-wing policies on countries with cuts in welfare. Sweden should have an independent economic policy, and those countries that want to leave the euro should be able to do so. It is we citizens, through our elected representatives, who are in charge of politics, not European bureaucrats.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-257	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations. The EU has moved forward in recent years in areas such as trade, foreign policy, security policy and climate, and the EU as a global player. In the light of the Brexit process, there is now stronger cohesion between the EU-27 countries, and this bodes well for the future after the Brexit process. The Commission's work programme also gives a clear indication that the future is the EU's, but it is still time to complete and complete ongoing processes to address future development opportunities. Madam President, I would like I will touch on some of these areas. The Paris Agreement 2015 is a historic commitment, in practice for all countries in the world. When the US left the agreement, an important player with great responsibility for ongoing and historical greenhouse gas emissions disappeared. Of course, the EU should not take responsibility for the action of the United States. However, in times of extreme weather conditions, partly based on the careless and trivial attitudes of people or states to the climate threat, the EU still has a moral and economic responsibility to show the way, just as before and during the Paris Agreement. The developed countries promised SEK 100 billion to developing countries to promote climate-smart energy solutions and the transition to fossil fuel-free alternatives. However, efforts are far from being made and, of course, it will be a setback when one of the world's most carbon-emitting countries like the United States withdraws from the agreement. However, several other more progressive nations have shown responsibility, so there is still some hope of moving forward. The EU can and must act as it teaches. We have to go down to the 1.5-degree target, and that's already yesterday. Madam President, I would like We hope, of course, that the conference in the Polish city of Katowice, one of the world's most coal-fired cities, will provide positive rings on the water or fossil-fuel-free ignition fluid in the climate debate. The EU's internal climate debate must also be strengthened and developed. There are still too many countries in the EU that do not fully assume their climate responsibilities, not least in terms of domestic heating and industrial operation, but also in the transport sector. Here, for example, the Nordic countries could be an example and a good educational example of neighbouring countries being able to work together to reduce climate emissions. The EU has also indicated that it is happy to look at Nordic collaboration and research. Madam President, I would like The EU has a major impact on world trade. The EU remains the world's largest economy. This means that there is great potential for the EU in the Community to promote and accelerate a new world trade climate based on justice, free trade and sustainability. The CETA agreement is an important step, but other trade agreements should also be based on transparency and enabling developing countries to trade with the EU without risking exploitation and exploitation. Many of the EU countries have been major colonists in the past, and these historical sins commit even greater commitments in this direction. Free trade is essential for globalisation, but it also means that conditions are based on mutual respect for each partner. In this context, it is particularly welcome that the EU and Africa have formed an alliance for sustainable investment and jobs. The EU's neighbourhood policy is, of course, also important in this respect. Madam President, I would like It is good that the Commission is looking at ways of making the decision-making process in the common foreign and security policy more effective. Of course, the decision-making models themselves should also be included in these analyses. We are talking about unanimity and qualified majority voting. However, it is still too early to draw conclusions, and it is highly reasonable that the European Commission should also include other factors in such an analysis process. The EU's neighbourhood policy must continue to develop. Of course, Juncker said there was a need for a break. But the timing is the same with Brexit's impact and also with some successes in Macedonia and partly Serbia, among others, that the talks and closures of the various chapters must continue. Of course, it is not an end in itself for the EU to have more Member States. This must be based on reciprocity and respect for, among other things, the Copenhagen criteria, including all other criteria to establish association or membership. In fact, however, we see that many of the former Eastern and Balkan countries that have joined have experienced prosperity gains, coupled with the EU becoming a stronger player on the European continent, not militarily but economically and sustainably. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words to the European Union as a connected digital single market. The opportunities are huge for research, roll-out of mobile networks and more digital services that facilitate entrepreneurship and provide more opportunities for smart services for individuals. It will also facilitate cross-border logistics, while at the same time there are more opportunities to combat fraud and crime. A connected digital single market also requires respect for privacy and ownership or access to digital material. Clear rules of the game, rights and obligations of digital service providers are sought and will be created through a more integrated and interconnected internal market in the EU.
i-As6VBjbaWd85K9KpzZq5pN	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! EU cooperation is facing an eventful year. On 30 March, the UK is expected to leave the EU. The European Parliament elections are held at the end of May. During the year, a number of leadership positions are expected to be changed within the Union. In the spring, there will also be discussions on the future development of the EU. Future issues require EU cooperation that works in the cross-border challenges facing today's Europe. Here cooperation needs to continue to develop and improve in order to maintain its legitimacy. In its annual work programme, the Commission sets out the policy priorities for the coming year. With elections to the European Parliament in May and this being the last year of the current Commission's term of office, the work programme contains fewer new initiatives this time. It is therefore perfectly logical and also good that in its last work programme, the Commission should focus on fulfilling its commitments for the term of office, something that many governments could learn from. There is added value in cooperating at EU level in the areas where it is taking place and demonstrating that the EU makes a difference on substantive issues that are important to citizens. Madam President, I would like With regard to the child of mourning Brexit, there is an urgent need for an orderly exit that creates legal clarity and predictability. The agreement reached at the European Council a week ago on a withdrawal agreement is a step in the right direction. But the British Parliament and the European Parliament need to approve the agreement before it can enter into force. This is the great uncertainty, and it remains. The EU must strive for as close a relationship as possible with the UK in the future. The EU's continued approach will be based on the principles set out by the European Council. Today we are discussing the Commission's work programme, which has included an account of the overall work programme, economic and financial issues, increased use of qualified majority voting, the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the EU as a global player, but also democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. Democracy is under trial both outside the EU and within the EU and its Member States. There are countries that are going in the wrong direction, and we do not want to see this spread. There are fascist tendencies in Europe, and it is only to be hoped that the elections to the European Parliament in May will give these doomsday prophecies a much-needed snap. Madam President, I would like Rather, I would like to focus on discussing the future of Europe. What could we write on a wish list for the future Commission's work programme? The ten horizontal priorities of the current Commission include assessments of what the Commission believes needs to be done in order to achieve further progress in the respective areas. Of these ten areas, four are well worth building on. A new focus on jobs, growth and investment is needed. It is necessary for us to afford to do what we want together. We also need a connected digital single market. A balanced and progressive trade policy is needed that governs globalisation and does not become a trailer to globalisation. We also need to have Europe as a stronger global player. Having said this, I realise that what Mr Aspling said in his speech was exactly the opposite. But these are important points for a future Commission. Good economic growth provides tools and opportunities to bring about change for what we want to develop. What, then, are the global challenges facing a growing population in a world that lives ever longer? I think it's six challenges. The first concerns the area of food and food security. We will need more efficient production for more and more people and a production that is achieved on a smaller surface. In this context, we must at some point dare to lift the lid and tear the patch – the stubborn resistance to GMOs puts a paralyzing hand over what will be future challenges. The second area is health. Deficiencies and epidemics have been replaced by lifestyle diseases. Lifestyle diseases will be easier to fix than epidemics, because it is about our own will. But there must also be opportunities and conditions for us to change lifestyles and prevent such repercussions. The third area is communication. In a world that is constantly connected, there will continue to be a need to move physically. Accessibility and speed are key factors. The importance of the site has diminished in favour of permanent presence. This will be one of the important tasks facing Europe. The fourth area is energy. Everything modern man does requires and generates energy. Energy must be accessible, efficient, clean and safe. Then we will link up with the fifth area, namely security. Everything we do, including technological developments, involves trials on how we can relate to each other. Safety will always be important for our future. But the most important thing is knowledge. This is the most important element of competition in order to make our ambitions a reality. Knowledge and education are the ingredients for development, growth and thus the fight against poverty. Here Europe needs to take the takpin – for our own sake but also for the sake of the world. We also need to prepare for the next lifestyle revolution. It's called AI, artificial intelligence. AI today has the potential to change more than the internet based on existing technologies. The growth of the future is based on catching up on this development. Digitalisation and AI will be an absolutely necessary development for Sweden, the EU and the world to meet our welfare commitments. Research for ethically safe AI needs to be started already now. It is an opportunity and a necessity. The next Commission must take this on board. Madam President, I would like The EU has accumulated increased importance and opportunities to work for peace, democracy, human rights, the importance of the rule of law, sustainable development, security and stability. All the countries of the Union are responsible for preparing themselves for future opportunities, but also for jointly contributing to the European Union's collective strength. The EU is no stronger than its weakest links. Therefore, the EU should work to help strengthen its individual Member States in its own development. In doing so, I support the proposal that the Parliament submits the report on the Commission's work programme to the House.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-289	Madam President, I would like Today, when we debate the European Commission's work programme for 2019, it happens in a situation where European cooperation is more important than for a very long time. The work programme deals with the political priorities for the coming year, which are marked by the end of the term of office but also by the fact that we have elections to the European Parliament to be held in May. In its work programme, the Commission focuses on completing its work and concluding ongoing negotiations. This applies not least to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union. On the Christian Democrats' side, we share the view expressed by the majority of the committee on Brexit. We stress the importance of exiting in a way that provides legal clarity and predictability. We stress that the EU should have good relations with the UK and close cooperation in the future as well. Madam President, I would like Few European leaders have during the post-war period highlighted the need for good relations as the German Christian Democrat Konrad Adenauer. After seeing the horrors of Nazism at close quarters, his political convictions were very clear. Without cooperation and without reconciliation between countries, Europe remains a continent of conflict and war. In April 1953, Mr Adenauer spoke in New York. In his speech, he responded to criticisms that the then newly formed Coal and Steel Community in practice created a small and limited Europe. Adenauer said: A number of European countries are under Soviet occupation. They do not have the power to choose their own membership. But, of course, we see these countries as future Member States. In 1953, in the midst of the Cold War, Adenauer saw the potential of European cooperation on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Today we live in peace and security and in a European community that has almost fivefold since the days of Adenauers. Only since Sweden became a member of the EU in 1995, more than 100 million people who previously lived in communist dictatorships have been integrated into the cooperation of democracies with human rights, the rule of law and free elections. With this, the economies of former Eastern Europe have also grown. In recent years it has been faster than in other EU countries. Last year, for example, Romania's economy grew by 8.8 %. Despite the success of European cooperation, the way forward has never been straight. Great challenges have paved the way, and so is today. Since the European Parliament elections in 2014, we have seen the largest flows of refugees since the Second World War. We have experienced an acute crisis in the single currency. Brexit has overturned the belief in unwavering cohesion, and serious terrorism threatens Europe's security. In addition, Member States such as Hungary, Poland and Romania have questioned and created a debate on fundamental values if constitutional democracy is worth preserving. It is against this background that we must now conduct the debate on the future of Europe. It is possible that ten years ago European friends had said the same thing. But my feeling is that the debate on the future is more urgent than it has been for a long time. At the same time, it is clear that the starting point for the debate and the conclusions to be drawn differ between party groups and the countries of Europe. A majority of Members of the European Parliament seem to see the debate on the future as the window of opportunity for greater centralisation of decision-making. This means a larger budget, the introduction of EU tax, social pillar, common EU army and new European authorities. More power transfer to Brussels is being launched as the solution to most of today's societal challenges. Europe-friendly is only the one who never says no to increasing EU power and swelling EU budget. At the other end of the debate are those who are against the EU and celebrate triumphs through political populism and take every opportunity to weaken European cooperation. It is often about parties to both the right and the left. In this House, the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party are united in the demand for Sweden to leave the EU. In the debate, the Christian Democrats stand for a position that highlights Europe's historical importance and sees what has been required to build stability and security in our part of the world. We also see how little is needed to thwart what has been achieved. The fate of Europe is the destiny of every European state. This is how Mr Adenauer formulated himself, and so the Christian Democrats see the future of European cooperation. Europe is free and independent states, and at the same time a cohesive entity. Madam President, I would like The way forward for Europe in 2019 and beyond is more solidarity and more responsible cooperation. It is cooperation that is capable of delivering effective solutions to the cross-border problems that most countries are struggling with today. At the same time, the gap between citizens and decision-makers must be narrowed and the parliamentary and popular anchoring of EU cooperation strengthened. The Christian Democrats stand for this view. We agree with what the report says and with other comments on the Commission's draft work programme. It concerns the increased use of qualified majority voting, the strengthening of the protection of democracy and the rule of law, the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the EU as a global player. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be included in the report.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-302	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply to Lars Adaktusson on the grounds that he seems to find it difficult to distinguish between the EU policy of the Left Party and that of the Swedish Democrats. So I was going to tell you about the differences. For me, it is surprising every time former MEPs on the right feel that they cannot tell the difference between the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, but look at one thing. That is the requirement for EU exit. I think it shows a very basic knowledge of the differences between our parties' European policies. The Left Party is a very clear party when it comes to the fact that we want international cooperation but that we also want to protect Sweden's ability to take the lead and be a clear voice for human rights, peace and security and other important issues around the world. We are in favour of intergovernmental cooperation. However, as we know, the EU is supranational cooperation in which the Commission, for example, is the only one who can make proposals, and much is governed by EU bureaucrats who are highly affected by lobbyists. We heard the speech of the Swedish Democrats earlier here. It was a cavalcade of something quite different from the politics that I feel I stand for. It is important, at this point, to be clear about saying that what the Left Party has intended us to go to elections in the European elections – which our members have not yet taken a position on and decided exactly – is that we are not currently pushing the requirement for EU exit. We do not want to create chaos and disorder in the way we now see with Brexit. You have to remember one thing. It is that you have to have better rules in order to leave the EU. When the United Kingdom makes the democratic decision, one cannot end up in the kind of chaos that has now been done about Article 50. It must be easier for countries wishing to leave the euro to leave the euro if they so wish. When you want a new agenda for Europe, the problem is that you do not become clear about what Europe you want. Instead, you end up saying yes to everything the European Commission proposes.
i-KQY3shWRRpKeCqG4nZUttY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! I suspect I disappoint you when I say that the comparison I made between the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats is correct, and I stand for it. If I read inside the Left Party's party programme, it is clear that your party believes that Sweden should leave the EU. That is exactly what the Swedish Democrats also think. There are two parties in this House, as I said, who have this demand, this desire or this ambition for Sweden to leave a cooperation and a Union that has given us peace and security for 70 years in Europe and that means more to Swedish welfare and Swedish business than any other international cooperation. 70 – 80% of Swedish entrepreneurs today say that they are directly dependent on EU cooperation. You are pushing the question – at least you have, according to the party programme, this view – that Sweden should leave the European Union. I have to say as it is: that is deeply regrettable. I also think it is irresponsible, because a Swedish withdrawal from the EU would put Sweden in a very serious situation. Those are facts. I'm sorry, Håkan Svenneling, but I stand by what I said in my speech.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-312	Madam President, I would like I guess it's not surprising that you're standing up for what you believe in. But I think it is important for us in European politics to listen to what people have said and what the people have decided. We have had two referendums in Sweden that have been clearly related to the EU. One concerned whether Sweden would join the EU in 1994. At that time the Swedish people wanted to enter the EU and chose this. The Left Party respects this referendum decision and believes that it is only through a referendum where there is great popular support for leaving the EU that it should do so. It should not be done in any kind of chaos or as fast as you can. The second referendum was on EMU and was held in 2003. There the Swedish people clearly said no to joining the euro. This proved to be one of the wisest economic decisions Sweden has made. It was taken by the people and not by any experts. That's why it gets a little weird. As a party, such as the Liberals, you can push the demand to join the euro. The parties have this right to pursue what they think and believe, regardless of what the people have said. It must be remembered, however, that it must be done by referendum and popular support when making a different position. I believe that the process that has been around Brexit is unfortunate for the European Union, for Sweden and for the United Kingdom. I had hoped that it would be much easier for countries that wanted to leave the EU to do so. But Brexit has shown them that the EU will obviously be hard-skinned against countries that want to leave the Union. This puts us at risk of getting into a hard Brexit or a non-contractual standstill. It is bad for Sweden, for Britain and for Europe. I therefore hope that better and clearer arrangements can be put in place for countries to leave the euro and the EU if they so wish. But it must be up to the people to decide it – not European bureaucrats in Brussels. That is why I think that there is a need for a clearer EU criticism than the criticism shown by many of the Swedish bourgeois parties.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-318	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether Håkan Svenneling listened to what I said, but my speech contained a great deal of criticism of the European Union. This was, for example, the debate on the future that is now under way, where we see a simplification of the problem by presenting greater centralisation of decision-making as the solution to all problems. I think this is a wrong development. I also think it is important that we, as elected politicians, also dare to talk about those parts of the EU that do not work and are not good. It goes without saying that every party has the right to, and will, pursue the issues it stands for. But responsibility also comes with this. When the Left Party wants Sweden to leave the EU, the party assumes an enormous responsibility for the reason that it would be seriously damaging to our country. It is about entrepreneurship, about employment, about welfare, about peace and about security. You should be aware of this, and here the Left Party, like the Swedish Democrats, thinks that Sweden should leave the Union even though it is proven that the benefits of Swedish membership are so great. Finally, of course we have had referendums both on EU membership and on joining the euro. But what is happening today, Håkan Svenneling, around Europe and not least in Sweden is that support for the EU is increasing. Support for the EU has never been greater than it is today, and it is a positive and encouraging development.
i-7a5756832a1a1a69-321	Madam President, I would like We are now examining the European Commission's work programme for 2019. That is where the political priorities are set for next year in the work of the European Commission and, by extension, for the European Union as a whole. It is important that this parliamentary foundation is in place, not least in order to deepen democracy and understanding of European issues. It is important that this is high on the agenda in the Member States and that we really discuss and debate the various choices we face. The Commission adopted the work programme just over a month ago. One can think a little about why the Riksdag should come in and debate this when it is already adopted, but now we do it anyway. Nevertheless, it is an opportunity for the parties to put forward overall views on European cooperation. Our Europe and our European cooperation are facing major challenges today. Somehow we always do, but if we look across the horizon today we see that the challenges are very big in almost all key areas. It is about how we can take the lead in saving our climate, which is ultimately about the living conditions and living conditions of our planet. It is about how we can create a long-term sustainable and dignified refugee policy. It is about how we can strengthen competitiveness and increase growth – for our standard of living, for our jobs and for our well-being in Europe. It is also about safety. We know that the security situation both to the east and in the Middle East and North Africa calls for civilian but in some cases also military action. We need to invest more in research and create good opportunities for innovation and creation. We must resolutely and resolutely combat cross-border crime. I can list a number of other areas that are important and where we face major challenges. At the same time, Madam President, Britain's process of leaving the European Union is under way. We also see how xenophobic parties continue to advance their positions, while two Member States are developing in an authoritarian direction. There are now two, Hungary and Poland, but there may be more. All of this shows not only what major challenges we face, but also what in some sense is the conclusion of this. Whether we look at the overall picture from some macro perspective or whether we look at these areas with challenges individually, according to my and my party's approach, there is really only a reasonable, realistic and logical conclusion to be drawn, namely that we need more cooperation to solve these challenges – not less cooperation. We simply have to deal with the challenges we face by deepening economic cooperation. In the globalised world we are living today, where economies are twinned and where exchanges on all different levels and different ways across borders are growing, the solution can never be to turn away from openness and cooperation. Madam President, I would like As far as the Liberals are concerned, Europe urgently needs precisely what I am talking about, i.e. enhanced cooperation. We look with concern at Brexit. We look with concern at the advancing ultra-right and populist gapheads who deny the climate threat, cheer on Putin and want to dismantle liberal democracy. We saw in the last century what authoritarian and totalitarian ideologies lead to. They lead to destruction, mass assault, neck shoots in dark cellars, Gulag, Treblinka and Babij Jar. It wasn't very long ago. Some people think you shouldn't dwell on those things. They think it's hard and we've moved on now. But it's not like that. It wasn't very long ago. My grandfather was born during World War I, and my father was born during World War II. It wasn't that long ago. At the end of May next year, elections to the European Parliament will take place. It's a very important choice. It is about the path that our continent and EU cooperation are facing. It is about whether we should solve our challenges and problems jointly and constructively or turn our backs on each other and dismantle the liberal democracy that has laboriously been built up over decades. Madam President, I would like As a Liberal, I know which path I am taking, and I sincerely hope that our continent will not once again be drawn backwards into misery and darkness.
