i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-8	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the government's proposal for a ban on uranium extraction. The Moderates and those belonging to the minority who have reserved believe that this legislation is unnecessary and inhibiting for the Swedish mineral industry. It also inhibits Swedish innovation in seeking investment abroad for the extraction of new innovation-critical minerals for battery production, cobalt and other important metals needed in a modern economy. We are currently building battery factories around Sweden and spending a lot of money on it and looking for investors abroad. We are talking about electric cars and that Volvo will invest heavily in electric car production and so on. For much of this, special metals are required, and many of these metals are present together with uranium. A ban on uranium does not make it economically viable. It has already been prospected for a mine where you can find many of the innovation-critical minerals that we otherwise only obtain under disgusting conditions in Africa or from China. You find neodyminerals, which is what electric motors are built on, which can be useful to know. These projects are now in danger of being destroyed because the government chooses to put ideology before pragmatism. It chooses to prioritise symbolic politics instead of Swedish industry, which is regrettable. I demand that the bill be rejected. We obviously support both of our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-13	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal for a ban on uranium extraction means that it will no longer be possible to authorise mining activities for the purpose of extracting uranium or authorising mining, testing, processing or physical or chemical enrichment of uranium to use the fissile properties of uranium. With regard to the mineral law, it is also proposed that uranium be completely removed as a concession mineral, which means that it will no longer be possible to grant either exploration permits or processing concessions. The Swedish Democrats believe that this is a directly harmful policy and that the government's proposal, backed up by the Left Party and the Center Party, can only be regarded as a concession to the green extreme parties. Uranium is a common element in the earth's crust, also in Sweden. It therefore seems strange to ban the exploration and extraction of this element, especially because it is often present and is a marker for other metals – metals that even the green parties consider desirable because they are needed for example for the production of batteries or are innovation-critical for other so-called green technologies. But the Swedish democrats find it difficult to see a need for a change in legislation in this area, since extensive uranium mining is not a problem in Sweden and has not occurred in our country for nearly 50 years. For those who would like to start mining, three separate permits are currently required under the Environmental Code, the Minerals Act and the Nuclear Technology Act. In addition, when setting up environmentally hazardous activities, as in the case of wind power establishment, municipalities have municipal veto, and an active strength of the municipality in question is required for a project to be authorised and implemented. Despite the fact that there is no problem and that the licensing process for those who want to start mining is extensive, the government is nevertheless putting forward this proposal. Madam President, I would like In its opinion, the Legislative Council also points out that it is difficult to see what the government's legislative proposals add to the regulation that already exists. It is also noted that the proposal is not further justified. The latter makes it clear that there are strong political motives for the proposed change in legislation. Sweden currently has a large share of nuclear power in its energy mix and thus has a great need for uranium. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is deeply wrong in principle to ban mining and make it more difficult to search uranium while Sweden is a major importer of uranium for our power production. The reasonable position for a nuclear country should have been to comply with current legislation: to allow uranium exploration and mining in Sweden under controlled conditions. In the energy agreement between the government parties and three of the bourgeois parties, there is no further limit to nuclear power in Sweden. The youngest nuclear power plants in Sweden have a planned lifetime of 2045, which means that we will be large consumers of uranium up to this point – perhaps even beyond this point in the extended lifetime of these plants. In the light of this, it seems all the more strange to propose a stop to the possibility of mining uranium in the country and instead to rely on the possibility of importing and to require other countries to maintain this type of activity in order to cover our need for uranium in Sweden. Madam President, I would like What is likely to do the greatest harm to our country is the impact that the proposal has on Sweden as a mining nation, when one relatively immediately prohibits an individual element. This directly damages our reputation as a mining nation and increases political uncertainty and the risk of operating in Sweden in the mineral industry. The political uncertainty that is created will make it more expensive, will make it more difficult for start-ups and jeopardise existing businesses but also potential start-ups that could have taken place in Sweden. This is not the service of Sweden in any way. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 1 in the report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-26	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy NU13 Prohibition of uranium extraction – a debate that is particularly close to my heart and a debate on an issue that I and many others have been pursuing for a long time. The proposal is for the Riksdag to adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Environmental Code and the Mineral Act, which prohibits the extraction of uranium. The legislative changes will no longer allow mining to extract uranium – i.e. no uranium mine, nor uranium as a by-product or recovery of extractive waste. In the proposal, there is a consequential amendment to the Environmental Code's provision for mandatory admissibility testing, which means that uranium extraction will no longer be subject to an admissibility test by the Government. And it requires a change in the mineral law where uranium will no longer be classified as a concession mineral. These legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 August 2018. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. I have listened to those who oppose the proposal. That is why, Madam President, I should like to say a few things. Sweden is and will continue to be a strong mining nation. We are an export-dependent country, and together with the steel industry, the mining and minerals industry accounts for 10 per cent of Swedish gross exports. During our term of office, we have been able to see how industry has taken a number of steps forward overall, not least in terms of job growth and productivity growth. This is crucial for our competitiveness. More companies are now working in industry than nine years ago, more and more companies are moving home from low-wage countries and industrial investments in Sweden are the highest ever. Industry's confidence in the future is also the largest in over 20 years. The mining industry is progressing with developing 5G technology and has left its roadmap for a fossil-free Sweden to the government. The goal is for large parts of the industry to develop its competitiveness by being fossil-free in 2045. The mining and mineral industry addresses its potential in areas such as metals and minerals to switch to fossil-free energy systems and transport and to develop modern car batteries, energy storage and new railway. They also highlight the development of the circular economy, which is important for creating a completely fossil-free mining and mineral industry. The state meets up in several ways, for example through the government's long-term investment of SEK 300 million per year in 2018– 2040 in Industrikliv and what Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg has already announced, namely that the government will meet up with more efficient and legally secure permit processes for the mining and minerals industry so that new necessary and climate-efficient investments are made possible. If it is something you know about the industry and about the mining and minerals industry, it is that access to energy is important and that the industry, regardless of government, wants there to be a long-term and sustainable plan. That is why the energy agreement concluded between more than 70 per cent of the members of Parliament, through us in the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, is so important. The objectives of the Energy Agreement are clear. The target for 2040 is 100 per cent renewable electricity production. It has also been agreed that Sweden will have 50 percent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. Madam President, I would like Sweden will continue to be a prominent mining and mineral nation and continue to develop its competitiveness. Sweden can and will continue to develop green energy and new technology, and the Government has commissioned Sweden's geological study to map the possibilities for extraction in Sweden of the innovation-critical metals and minerals that are necessary for, among other things, the environmental and climate transition. The Government's proposal today also provides for a comprehensive assessment of today's proposals linked to this within five years. And finally, Sweden can secure its need for energy with a large cross-block, sustainable and forward-looking energy agreement. Madam President, I would like I started by saying that this is a debate that is very close to me. I have been told here that no one is concerned. But it is actually about how I and many people in Jämtland and other parts of Sweden have longed for and worked for the question of a no to uranium mining. The issue has been debated in the Swedish Parliament for a long time, and today there is a majority. It has been there for a long time, but today we are leaving the block policy that is so often a brake block when you want results, not just talk. Why does this issue involve us? Because applications and work plans for research to look for uranium increased at a high rate right after the turn of the government in 2006. Among other things, the k ommunerna around Sweden's fifth largest lake Storsjön– Berg, Krokom, Åre and Östersund– was courted by foreign companies who on their websites in 2007 wrote how Sweden had opened up for nuclear power. Fredrik Reinfeldt was then in 2009 in Umeå and said that Sweden should open up for uranium mining, which attracted several new investors. What caused us to react all the time? Well, with a moderate prime minister who opened up for uranium mining, it came as a bead: Then came the rich chairman of the Moderates in Jämtland and said the same thing, then came the moderates of Berg's municipality and said the same thing, and even the liberals said the same thing. But there was a municipal veto, wasn't that enough? No, was our assessment. Our four municipalities are all around Storsjön, which is an incredibly important source of water for all four. If one of our municipalities – no matter how incredible it may seem – were to be governed by moderates and liberals and they were to open up to uranium mining, it would be a danger to our common drinking water. We all saw what happened in Finnish Talvivaara. In addition to all the environmental and health risks involved in uranium mining, one must also understand the enormous amount that needs to be mined in order to obtain a small part of uranium. We have a large part of Jämtland's fertile agriculture around Storsjön. We have our tourism industry as a basic industry, and it has been like a wet blanket over the further development of the ss and other industries when the large foreign companies constantly submitted work plan after work plan for survey work at Storsjön. The landowners and the municipalities appealed against the decision of the Berg State, but as you know, this is not possible. Concern for health and the environment, concern for our drinking water, disappointment at not being able to develop the existing industries and anger about not being listened to from the capital made us light carekas around Storsjön, demonstrated, made films to visualize the huge area, started an economic association that produced facts, invited the Bergsstatet to dialogue and debated. Now the municipalities have responded to the government's referral, and they support the proposal. In the municipality of Berg, where the issue has been at its greatest in Jämtland, all parties in the council have now supported the proposal. There is no uranium in Jämtland today, and not in Skåne, Västergötland, Östergötland, Närke, Öland or elsewhere in Sweden. Let us decide that it should not be allowed to do so either. Let the word of the day be a huran.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-48	Madam President, I would like There were several points raised here, and I get to choose which parts I should take a line on. I can hang myself up a little bit on the following. It is not the case that the whole handling of permits for a mine depends on the political test of admissibility. It is still the case that three separate legislations require authorisation. There is also an environmental test. It is therefore not dependent on politicians as laymen sitting and deciding whether it will be harmful or not if a mine is opened or what risks it entails, but on a professional assessment. Although it might have been possible to meet all the criteria, there is an opportunity for politicians to ultimately say no to this type of environmentally dangerous activity. It is a little interesting that there will be a ban on exploration permits to break uranium precisely to use its fissile properties. But it is by no means the case that the Social Democrats prevent other metals from being mined where uranium is. The only difference will be that, should political uncertainties be overcome, uranium will be mined in order to be able to raise other metals that we need for battery technology, for example, and which are innovation-critical for other parts of green technology. But the difference is that we should not then use the uranium that has been picked up from the hill, but it should remain and be completely inaccessible. At the same time, we have a need for uranium in Sweden for our power supply and for our energy supply. This is part of the energy agreement of which the Social Democrats are a part. In what way is it reasonable to import uranium from much more undemocratic states, where it is questionable how it works with the environmental test and where it has far lower requirements for uranium mining than would apply in Sweden?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-53	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question. As I said in my speech, we have agreed on the goal that by 2040 Sweden will have 100% renewable electricity production. The Swedish democrats were not in fact part of that agreement. This objective now needs to be implemented. For me, of course, this can go much faster than that. Always talking about nuclear energy feels like a longing back to past times and a belief that everything was better then. It doesn't feel very forward-looking. Mattias Bäckström Johansson says that he does not believe that politics and political signals matter. I remember very well what it was like in the last parliamentary term when it was claimed that the industry was fundamentally gone. Do you not think that the industry perceives it as that investment in research and innovation or other things would not take place precisely in the industry? Fredrik Reinfeldt said in Umeå in 2009 that we should actually open up for uranium mining. Don't you think it attracted several investors who thought that Sweden is now for uranium mining? Political signals in a system of course play a huge role, because laws can be changed. I therefore do not share your view on it.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-57	Madam President, I would like It is this type of political risk that is so harmful to Sweden. This is something that directly damages Sweden's reputation as a mining nation. For a long time, for example, uranium mining has been permitted under controlled conditions linked to three different legislations. They have also had a veto right for the municipalities. It is now being abandoned and will instead go in and legislate against an individual element. It is clear that it will be very problematic for Sweden that, as a flash from a clear sky, you go in and remove an individual element and say that no one now gets an examination permit for it or may break it. Who wants to establish themselves with these conditions? Which other countries have banned individual elements? Can AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg mention a single country that has banned an individual element?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-59	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for this. I think that more people from the capital should sometimes take the time to listen to people's concerns in rural areas. This concern for uranium mining seems to have completely bypassed you. I can understand why you think it's great that you can put a contact in the wall and say, "Let there be light." Then it doesn't matter what source it comes from. But I think it should come from sustainable and renewable sources. I believe that the people think so too, and we are actually set to manage the people's trust. I told you earlier that we have a good agreement and that it is good for industry. Mattias Bäckström Johansson asked if there is any country that has banned an individual element. Honestly, I don't know. But maybe we should be the first. SGU has had a mission from the government to map. Now you should also look at how these innovation-critical metals, which are actually incredibly important to store the renewable energy that a majority in this Parliament wants to invest in, are to be extracted.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-63	Madam President, I would like I'll pick up where Mattias Bäckström Johansson left off. If the mission to SGU is for them to find innovation-critical minerals, it becomes a bit strange when SGU itself says that it is incredibly problematic with this legislation to be able to find innovation-critical minerals. It seems to me to be some kind of social democratic strategy in general to pull away the legs of fundamentals. Then they appoint a mining general, a uranium catapult or some polo project instead. It cannot be said that we want renewable energy sources and a renewable society while at the same time pulling away the bones of the minerals that make this possible. You can't have electric cars without batteries with the metal neodymium. One cannot have a fossil-free society without having a basic energy from nuclear power. It's not in our current energy mix. It is not even possible at the moment to realise that vision without investing in a functioning mining industry. The problem now is that foreign investors will close their ears. They will not want to invest in Swedish mining industry if we go in and poke and ban individual substances. It is quite exciting that in Sweden it is not prohibited to break coal but that it is forbidden to break uranium. What is the most dangerous to the environment? It is quite clear that it is coal that kills people and destroys the climate. But it's perfectly legal to prospect for coal but not for uranium. This logic simply does not go together.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-69	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bali for this. I don't know if I got a question, but at least I heard what you said. Then I can answer a little bit to what you really said. We have all agreed that we believe that we can have a society in 2040 with only renewable electricity. That is something we are working for, both you and me and many more in this House. Of course, if we believe in that society, we will not be equally dependent on nuclear energy either. You're saying that if you can't break uranium, you can't explore anything else either. We see how prices have increased tremendously on the innovation-critical metals that you are talking about and that are needed to build the batteries needed to reset. It also states in this report that these things can be done hand in hand, i.e. that uranium is taken up but not allowed to be used while, of course, it is possible to produce those metals that have increased in price and which are now capable of breaking. I don't see the same problem you see. Nor does the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency see this investigation. Nor does the government see this problem in its proposal in the Government Office. It is believed that both can be done. We shouldn't have to break uranium. We can reassure rural people. We can tell the regulars not to worry anymore. At the same time, we can actually invest in the innovation-critical metals.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-73	Madam President, I would like You speak of faith, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg. We can believe in that society as much as we want. But reality does not change according to our faith. In order to get there, we need to have functioning battery technology, functioning minerals and functioning investments. This is where the logic of the ban gets really weird. Look at the exploration of our largest innovation critical minerals in Jämtland, for example. 30% of the minerals in that mine are uranium. With your logic, it's okay to break up all of them and the uranium. It is perfectly all right to take the risk of breaking up the uranium in order to extract the remaining 70 percent important minerals. Then you just put it back. So you take the whole risk without using the product that you actually dig up. What does that lead to? Well, the mine is too expensive to run. It is also not profitable to buy cobalt from Sweden, and it is not profitable to buy neodymium from Sweden. Then you do it from Africa and China. And then we'll have a more disgusting society. Then we will have a more disgusting world, where poor little children need to work in mines instead of using modern Swedish technology, modern robots in a Swedish mine. That is the strange thing about this legislation. It is not like the government forbids the import of uranium. It's not like you're banning uranium mining, if it's extremely dangerous. You just want someone else to do it. It's okay if Canadians, Australians or Russians break uranium. But if Sweden is going to do that, it is wrong. Our environmental requirements are high. I believe that Swedish mining industry is so environmentally friendly and has such high security and trust that it will be important for Sweden to be able to extract this.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-78	Madam President, I would like It is an incredibly divided alliance on this issue. In the previous debate on mineral policy, the representatives of the Christian Democrats said that there is no party that wants uranium to be mined. I don't know if it stands for you, Hanif Bali. And now it's gonna be a rhetorical question because you don't have a line left to answer. We know that there is a majority in favour of this in the Swedish Parliament. We think it's important. You're talking about poor children in other countries. But we also have an energy agreement that means that we should have 100% renewable. You should link that the need for nuclear power should then be reduced properly. The imports we need should be reduced. It's not uranium we need. We need the innovation-critical metals that can store renewable energy. We need to expand more renewable energy. We can see that both wind and solar power are expanding much more. You have been involved in agreeing on hydropower and a lot of good things in the energy agreement that can lead to Sweden being safe on the energy issue in the future. This time, perhaps, it would be flattering to listen to the constants and crowds, to those who are deeply concerned about this. You don't seem to believe that worry. There are always big foreign companies that court and want to break. It puts a dead hand over everything. I'm glad we're going to say no to uranium mining this day.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-84	Madam President, I would like The nuclear era is over. And today we are gathered to celebrate it with this debate. Let's start there. Let's look around the world and see what happens in the energy market. In country by country, region by region, renewables are now breaking through on a broad front. In many places solar energy is now the cheapest source of energy. And the International Energy Council's track that wind power will be the dominant energy source in the EU within just over a decade, thanks to extraordinary developments both on land and at sea. The wind and the sun complement each other well. They balance the system, and the wind at sea, in particular, contributes to stability. Last year, Costa Rica broke its own world record. They had 300 days when they only used electricity from renewable sources. In California, renewables thrive. Soon all newly built houses will have solar cells on the roof. In Germany it is not uncommon that renewable energy is an integral part of construction. Algae are grown in walls, and solar cells are used both as windows and as ceilings. In China, the coming years will invest more in sun and wind than has been invested so far in the whole world. Technology development for smart grids and energy storage increases. Here lies the key to 100% renewable energy worldwide. The sun and wind are here to stay, and they are taking over the world at a rapid pace. Madam President, I would like At this rate, nuclear power does not only have difficulty competing; it becomes superfluous. The Financial Times well summarises this in an article on the gloomy prospects of the nuclear industry that they published just a few weeks ago. It said: The costs remain too high. Private investors wisely withdraw from building risks. And absolutely central – there are alternatives. The cost of wind and sun is now half per megawatt hour compared to large-scale new nuclear power. This is not really strange. It is simply too difficult and expensive to build new nuclear power. Just take Olkiluoto 3 in Finland as an example. It is one of the few projects to build a new nuclear reactor. If I had received a crown every time I read a news article about the construction being delayed or expensive, we could have ignored my parliamentary fee. According to the original plan, the reactor would have been ready for commercial production in 2009. So, to this day, it is not operational. The construction loss is estimated at nearly SEK 40 billion. A similar development is also seen here in Sweden. It has never been as simple and economically profitable to set up solar cells as it is now. Wind power has increased dramatically in recent years. And within a few years, no less than four nuclear reactors will be shut down in Sweden. They're unprofitable and old. It's the renewables that take over. Perhaps the most important of all has been mentioned before: N u finally has our well-processed energy agreement and a very clear target – 100 percent renewable electricity by 2040. The nuclear era is over. The Uranium has no future. That brings me to the logical point of banning uranium mining. Uranium has the nasty properties that breaking is dangerous, dangerous to carry, dangerous to use as fuel and dangerous to store. That is why, of course, we would rather not do any of this. And that is why we in the Green Party are proud and happy that we are now taking the next step and completely banning uranium mining in Sweden. First came the target of 100% renewable energy. Then came closures of nuclear reactors, and now there is a ban on uranium mining. We are effective and diligent in this term of office. Perhaps the ban is primarily about protecting our Swedish communities. For too long the threat of large-scale exploitation has been like a wet blanket over parts of the Swedish countryside. What's going to happen to our town? Will the land be torn up and never restored? What happens if what is picked up is dangerous for us who live here? Will our local tourism industry completely die out? What happens to our beautiful natural environments and our cultural tradition here in the area? What happens to our drinking water? This is the end of this anxiety. We put an end to rogue mining companies threatening to destroy people's homes and pull the carpet away for their livelihoods. Finally, we free the Swedish communities from this threat. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud to belong to the party that goes from talk to results in environmental policy. We have for a long time been pushing this hardest of all parliamentary parties. It obviously took a real environmental party in power for it to happen. Now we're finally on the finish line. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-97	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal. It is no big secret that we in the Center Party think as we do on this issue. Since the 1970s, we have been working on this, and we also have a decision that we want to ban uranium mining. Many people in our party, not least in Jämtland and Skaraborg, have been concerned about uranium mining. In fact, there is quite a lot of uranium in some of these areas, especially where there are aluminum figures. They are concerned because they have a strong focus on the cultural landscape, tourism, animals and nature, as well as health risks, and this must also be respected. I would like to point out that the mining industry is very important for Sweden and for employment. It is therefore important that we do not make the extraction of important minerals other than uranium difficult. As several previous speakers have mentioned, the properties of uranium are used, for example, to find other minerals, such as rare earth metals that are needed in green technology. I know that these issues are taken into account in the bill – it is written very clearly – but I would like to point out that the proposed ban must be followed up and evaluated from the perspective I mentioned to ensure that other significant mineral extractions are not inhibited. While I am standing here in the speaker's chair, I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is very important for the government to review the processes for permit testing in the mining industry. They take far too long and cost far too much money, which means that Sweden loses attractiveness as a mining country. I think this is very important to send with the government, because a great deal needs to be done in this area. I and the Center Party intend to come back with proposals which have precisely this focus.
i-MGEU2D3UWoHhS89WQ2j6YA	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are now debating the report of the Industry Committee 13 Prohibition of uranium extraction. As a left-wing party, you're happy today. We have been pushing this issue for decades, so it feels good today. In the Swedish bedrock there are considerable uranium resources. At present, however, the world market price of uranium is low, which obviously means that the interest in exploiting these assets is limited. In addition, uranium extraction poses significant environmental and health risks. The current regulation is therefore very restrictive as regards the possibility for any operator to obtain authorisation for such extraction. However, the situation may change if nuclear power production is given a global boost and if, for some reason, those countries that currently supply uranium on the world market are no longer able to meet demand. The result may be increases in the price of uranium and a related increased interest in exploiting Swedish assets. The Left Party believes that the environmental and health risks inherent in the extraction of uranium and the concerns that these risks create in the areas where uranium extraction may be considered must be taken very seriously. We have also heard this earlier in the debate. The Left Party shares the government's view that these possibilities must be eliminated. In the bill that we are discussing today, the government is proposing three amendments to the law. The environmental code introduces a new provision whereby it will no longer be possible to authorise mining activities for the purpose of extracting uranium, i.e. a uranium mine. Nor will it be possible to authorise the mining, testing, processing or physical or chemical enrichment of uranium to use the fissile properties of uranium. The prohibition applies both to mining activities involving the extraction of uranium as a by-product and to the recovery of extractive waste. The prohibition does not apply to mining activities involving iron ore, base metals, rare earth metals or other minerals where these are mined, mined, processed or physically or chemically enriched for purposes other than the use of the fissile properties of uranium. This is an important clarification for other players who are not primarily looking for uranium but who still see Sweden as a good and serious mining nation. We have tough environmental requirements, but we still realise that other earth metals will be needed in the transition in our quest for a sustainable society. A consequential amendment is also proposed in the Environmental Code's provision for mandatory admissibility testing, which means that uranium extraction subject to the ban can no longer be accepted by the Government. In the mineral law, uranium is removed as a concession mineral and the amendment no longer makes it possible to grant either exploration permits or processing concessions for uranium. If the energy agreement signatories wanted to stand up for this by 100 percent renewable by 2040, they would support the bill. Not taking this step would only make the ambition decided upon in the energy settlement even more unserious. It's kind of like talking about wood construction and at the same time doing everything to make it difficult for forestry to produce trees, which is the raw material for wood construction. Madam President, I would like With this brief speech, I would like to support the motion and reject the motions.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-112	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for approval of the two reservations contained in the report. Since the Christian Democrats did not have a Member present at the committee meeting, I would ask you to do this now. Dear Hearers! It is quite interesting when parties with such an emphase invest their entire personal credibility in trying to get all of us – which we are now – who are watching or listening to believe that the energy agreement is about banning the extraction of uranium. This has been completely misunderstood. In this House, we are currently two people – Lise Nordin from the Green Party and myself – who have sat at the negotiating table. I do not think any of us could stand here and say that this is what it is all about. On the other hand, it is about long-term sustainability in terms of the energy supply of this country, and I very much dislike when representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party try to assert something else. You're not supposed to test the deal unnecessarily, I can tell you. An agreement is about agreeing on things, but if it turns out that you are not, there is no longer an agreement. In this case and in this debate, it is a legislative proposal – a proposal – which deals with a ban on uranium extraction. To say, as some representatives stand in the speaker's seat, that this in turn would be about the fact that we want to extract uranium in order to produce nuclear power is absurd. There is no party currently talking about this, and I do not know how many years ago it was that someone talked about it. The energy agreement as well as a fossil-free Sweden, which, as far as I know, has not been against, means that we want a 100% renewable society. But one should also be aware that circular society is about seeing from beginning to end, and then we start over, simply. When it comes to the production of all the electronic things that we all use every day, even the Green Party and the Social Democrats must understand where these things come from. Surely it cannot be that difficult to understand that wind power contains these metals and that the batteries of the electric bicycles – you spend so much money on the subsidy of electric bicycles – contain something that needs to be extracted somewhere. It is incredible that if there are better environmental conditions in our country for the extraction of precisely the innovation critical metals and minerals, we can continue to work with the establishment of battery plants in Sweden. But we cannot do that otherwise, because there is already a shortage in the world today of these innovation-critical metals. It is particularly interesting that the Social Democrats have agreed to this bill for the sake of the Green Party. It's quite obvious. Mikael Damberg goes as Minister of Innovation and Industry around and talks about the importance of circular society, the importance of developing innovation critical metals in Sweden and the importance of being a stable mining nation in the future. At the same time, he has representatives who stand here and say something completely different. I would like to congratulate Mattias Bäckström Johansson for his description of this by developing these innovation-critical metals and minerals, because uranium is a by-product of what is to be developed precisely of those kinds. To then introduce a total ban on both mining and exploration, as it says in the Environmental Party Election Manifesto for 2014– 2018, means that existing mining companies in Sweden today would risk not being allowed to prospect new deposits of other minerals due to the risk that they might encounter uranium. That is the issue. That is why I and the Christian Democrats with several parties say that this bill does nothing but create uncertainty for the mining industry and the good reputation that we have had around the world, that we care about those who work there and that the working environment and environmental policy are good when it comes to extraction and mining. Business Sweden was on the Industry Committee yesterday. I think we were all quite pleased to hear that 57 major investments were made in Sweden by international companies last year. If we look deeper at what areas these companies have invested in, we can probably be pretty sure that there are not so many in the mining and mineral industries, because this whole discussion has created uncertainty for the industry. Now it's about a lot of money. It is also about places where you do not otherwise have so many industries and large workplaces. It is about jobs, which we should all be quite concerned about, especially in rural areas. And the mines are where they are. We can't move them. We can't say: But it's more appropriate somewhere else; if they'd just been lying there, it'd be totally okay. G eology doesn't work that way. The minerals are where they are. As I said before, it becomes an incredible double standard when one hand subsidises electric bicycles and wants electric cars – want everything driven by electricity – while the other hand wants to ban not only the mining of metals and minerals but also the exploration itself. In this case, I would like to throw this question out to these parties: How do you value Swedish mining industry, which has existed for centuries? How do you estimate this industry if you compare it with, as my fellow Member from the Moderates did, that we would continue to receive and use minerals and metals that have been broken in Congo in terrible mines and also with child labourers? It is a society that is hardly believed to exist. Instead, we could have good extraction in Sweden, which also provides jobs here. We should also remember that it is a high-tech industry. If we are to continue to be a successful mining nation, we must understand the connection between what we use every day and how it is extracted. Otherwise, we will never reach the goal of a circular society.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-127	Madam President, I would like One thing Penilla Gunther is quite right about, and it is that it is not explicitly stated in the Energy Agreement that we should ban uranium mining in Sweden. That is, of course, correct. But that is not what our speeches here have been about in the past, but rather the other way round. The energy agreement is a clear basis for what we want with the Swedish electricity market in the future, and there the direction is clear. We are going to have 100% renewable electricity production, and it is obviously Penilla Gunther herself happy about that. It is therefore quite confusing and difficult to understand what Penilla Gunther really means by her speech. Is she responsible for 100% renewable electricity production, or what is she really going after here? It's actually pretty unclear. One thing needs to be corrected directly, a mistake in substance, and that is that from now on it would be forbidden to prospect. On the contrary, there is a clear indication that exploration will continue to be permitted. It is also clearly stated in the Act that the Government does not consider that this has consequences for the possibility of breaking innovation-critical metals. The government has commissioned SGU to review the possibilities of breaking innovation critical metals in Sweden, so there is no doubt. I think it is a bit strange when we are constantly discussing this with working conditions. It is very important, and we welcome this commitment, of course. But there is an incredible amount that can be done in international trade agreements, such as making higher demands. To say that in order for us to be able to break innovation-critical metals in Sweden, it should happen at the same time as we do foam business with uranium, I think it's backwards.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-131	Madam President, I would like Let me now correct my latest statement. But it was not at all about breaking uranium in other countries. In that case, Lorentz Tovatt, you heard it all wrong. On the other hand, I referred to the Green Party election manifesto, which you hopefully represent during this parliamentary term. And you're an environmentalist, Lorentz, as far as I know. So it says, as I referred to, that we want to ban both mining and exploration completely. I suppose that was the only point you did not get through in that case. What is so interesting, however, is that the government and government parties completely ignore the fact that there is a legislative council that goes through and looks at legislative proposals. Do the proposals matter? Will they matter? Will it turn out that it will actually be of some benefit to people when the legislation then goes through? Even this time it is. I've been through a number of legislative referrals, and I think you should all do that, Lorentz. Because it's very interesting reading. It is not only with regard to this bill that it has completely ignored the recommendations of the Law Council – where it is clearly stated that this will not really have any meaning whatsoever, but is just a political statement that one wants to appear to be environmentally friendly in some way. Here is Lorentz Tovatt saying that he does not understand what I mean when I talk about circular society. What is it that Lorentz Tovatt does not understand when it comes to this particular subject?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-134	Madam President, I would like I do not know how this became a debate on the general views of the Legislative Council on proposals. To the extent that the KD remains in the Riksdag after the next election, Penilla may aim to sit in the KU instead, if that is the main interest. What should be said about the Council's views on this particular legislation is that they mainly had some adjustments regarding the parts of the law that they wanted to change. The government also made the legislative adjustments proposed by the Law Council. So the substance is wrong. I'll say something quickly about exploration and mining. The important thing, as I said, is to free Swedish communities from this threat, and exploration is not the most important one. If we know that a company can't break uranium if they find it, it's enough to get us out of the threat. On the other hand, exploration has other purposes, namely to generally map the bedrock, understand it and know about what it contains. If there are reasons, then it may also be possible to break innovation-critical metals. I would like to ask Mrs Gunther a question about the Swedish areas under threat. It is clear to those who have visited these places that there is a great deal of concern. Many are concerned about their future and the local business community. One wonders what will happen to the place and so on. Many municipal councillors have now gone out and cheered on the message from the government – also municipal councillors from the Christian Democrats. Penilla Gunther didn't point her ear that way at all? Is Penilla Gunther not listening at all to her own councillors, who are delighted that the government is now moving on with this to just free the villages from the unrest?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-138	Madam President, I would like If Lorentz Tovatt has listened to several Christian Democratic councillors, it is interesting, because the thing is that unfortunately we don't have a lot of them in the places in the country where it is about mining in mines. So it would have been very interesting if you'd heard more from them than I have, Lorentz. Incidentally, it can be said that regardless of which party is in the parliament after the election, it is a good thing that we will hopefully still stand up for the energy agreement jointly. But then you should not misinterpret it either. It's incredibly important. If a party or two does not understand the energy agreement but uses it for its own purposes, it actually means – as I said in the speaker's seat earlier – that it does not hold. An agreement does not last longer than it actually agrees on the substance. When it comes to circular society, an environmental party, which is now before me, must understand the following: If you are to have sustainable energy in the future, such as wind power, solar cells and so on, you have to have the innovation-critical metals and minerals in order to produce these products at all. Then where are they to be found? That's my question. Where are these minerals and metals to be found? It is always the case that it should be done somewhere else, by someone else. You only care about the end products that come out, Lorentz, but how they have arrived is apparently completely irrelevant. That is why I wonder where the Green Party stands on the issue of having a mining industry.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-141	Madam President, I would like I listened to Penilla Gunther and was a little surprised when she argued that we in the Social Democrats cannot think for ourselves and have not made any decisions of our own concerning the ban on uranium mining. I do not think Penilla Gunther listened to my speech at all. This question has been decided by the Party Congress, and my whole party is behind it. It is, of course, an issue that comes from local representatives, both from me in Jämtland and from the people of the bourgeoisie and others. I have to ask you a short question. How does uranium enter a circular society?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-143	Madam President, I would like If it is the case that the whole Social Democratic Party has not understood Swedish geology, it is very interesting. Then we certainly have a problem in this country. In the case of mining of any other metals and minerals, it is actually so in the Swedish urberget that it can slip with some uranium here and there. It's incredibly little, according to the statistics, but it still comes with it. The question that the mining industry has asked about this bill is what happens to the small amount that still emerges. What are they gonna do with it? Do they suddenly become criminals when they get this up? What are they gonna do with it? Is there any point in breaking anything in this country if it turns out that you suddenly become a criminal if you bring something up with you? It is difficult enough to obtain a permit for exploration in this country at all. One thing you can really think about is how it could happen if the Social Democrats are the workers' party and really protect one of the big basic industries we have in Sweden. But it's clear: If you scare up all of your councillors and members around the country in a wrong way, which you have a rather large organization to do, I understand that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg feels quite pleased to present today a completely meaningless bill – which will also reduce the number of jobs in exactly the rural areas Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg says she is protecting.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-146	Madam President, I would like It's words and no songs from Penilla Gunther. She herself has been standing in this Chamber, most recently in February, and clearly stated that no party in the Swedish Parliament wants to break uranium. That is why I do not understand how she can express that this is the most important thing on earth. Katarina Jonsson, moderate in Skövde and the municipal council chairman of your county, Penilla Gunther, welcomes the decision and says that it is good that you finally put your foot down. You are saying that this would apply to social democratic local politicians, but it actually applies to municipal politicians at all. However, I have not found a Christian Democrat; as you said yourself, there are not many of them. You also asked how we value Swedish mining and Swedish industry. During this term of office, it has surely been clear how we value Swedish industry. We have developed Smart Industry and all these programmes, and we have an Innovation Council directly under the Prime Minister. Now it is not about an industry that is fundamentally gone. Now it is really a matter of prioritising the industry for Sweden's development. This is how we value Swedish industry. I don't get it right, so I have to ask Penilla Gunther again: If you talk about circular economy, how do you get uranium into a circular society? You didn't answer that.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-151	Madam President, I would like It is a question of uranium becoming a by-product in the extraction of other minerals and metals. I have said this a number of times in this speaker's chair and also in other debates. So I do not understand what Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg in turn does not understand. According to the mining industry itself, this is the case. Then I ask again: what do the Social Democrats think the mining industry should do? Uranium is a by-product that can be obtained while breaking other metals and minerals. What are we going to do with the small amount of uranium that still comes to light? I repeat again: as far as I know, there is no party in this Parliament that has even proposed, for many years, that uranium be specifically mined. That's not what it's all about. It's about what happens when you break something else and uranium still comes along. I repeat, what are we going to do? What's it for? Today we are importing 1 500 tonnes of uranium for the existing nuclear power which will still last a few more years. The small amount of uranium we are talking about so far cannot even be used for nuclear power. That is not at all what it is about. That is why I find the debate on the proposal so completely incomprehensible. What exactly do you want? Do you want to lower the entire mining industry, or what is it about? I would like an answer to that.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-156	Madam President, I would like It is almost eight years ago that I, here in Parliament, initiated the first motion for a ban on uranium mining. Exactly a year ago, climate minister Isabella Lövin announced that she and the government intended to ban uranium mining in Sweden. Exactly a year later, we are debating now and will decide this afternoon on a ban on uranium mining in Sweden. For those who say here in the debate that there is no need for a legislative ban on uranium mining, I recommend a visit to the many places in Sweden that have lived for a long time and are still living with the threat of uranium mining. It speaks clearly that it is deemed possible to break uranium in Sweden today, as several large foreign companies have spent many millions of dollars searching for uranium in Sweden. I have visited Billingen in Falköping, Skövde, Kvarntorpshögen in Kumla, Nianfors in Hudiksvall and Oviken in Jämtland. In these places you can meet the many people affected by the threat of uranium mining. Farmers do not make the investments they want and there are eco-tourism companies that refrain from investing because they do not know whether the latter can be uranium mining. With the proposal that we are debating here and on which we will hopefully have a decision this afternoon, these places can breathe out. There is a logic in that the parties that want to see new nuclear power in Sweden also tell us where the uranium will come from. I have not seen any moderate, liberal, Christian Democrat or Swedish Democrat standing in any of the affected places in Sweden and saying: here we shall have uranium mining. Uranium mining and uranium disposal are two of the problems of nuclear power. Now that five parties have agreed that Sweden will have 100 percent renewable electricity production in 2040, it is a natural consequence that we now also ban uranium mining when the need for uranium decreases. There is an inconsistency in the reasoning of Moderate Hanif Bali in his speech. First, it is said that no change in legislation is needed because Sweden does not have uranium mining. Then Hanif Bali says that the profitability of new mines is dependent on exploiting uranium. I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the Moderates want uranium mining in Sweden. I would like to thank the Left Party and the Center Party for supporting the Government's proposals which we are debating today. I'm glad the Center Party has changed its mind. In 2011, when I debated here in Parliament with the then responsible Minister Maud Olofsson and Member of Parliament a Helena Lindahl, it was said that there was no need for any change in legislation. Lindahl said: We are against uranium mining, but the laws and regulations that apply have been sufficient for all years. It is clear, Madam President, that a legislative ban is needed if we do not want to see uranium mining in Sweden. After this debate, it is unclear whether the Moderates and Christian Democrats want uranium mining in Sweden. I think we are trying to create a confusion about mineral extraction in general. I would like to conclude by making it clear that this proposal, which we are debating today, concerns uranium mining specifically and does not involve any changes for the mineral extraction of other metals. What it should look like, we can debate another day. However, this proposal means that the uranium that can follow up as a by-product of extraction will continue to be treated as mining waste as it is today. Today we are celebrating that Sweden will have a ban on uranium mining. We can therefore ensure that we will not have the same environmental problems as we are dealing with today 50 years after we had mining in Sweden.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-167	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin and I have been in a number of meetings together. Many times we have actually thought the same. However, I am concerned about this issue of uranium mining and the reference to various parts of, not least, the energy agreement, Lise Nordin. If there's something you're also behind, then I think you should say it now. But for me as a Christian Democrat and part of the five-party agreement, it has not been a ban on uranium extraction. We have both said a number of times that we want to see a fully renewable society in the future; that must be the objective. However, in this debate it seems that the Green Party has agreed to a bill, and perhaps also pushed the Social Democrats, which are moving in a completely wrong direction. If, as an environmental party, we want to promote new products that are considered to be environmentally friendly, we also need to look at the entire production chain. If we are to have a circular economy and society, we still need to be smart enough to look at the batteries in our mobile phones to be able to use apps, electric bicycles and computers. How can we use them if we do not succeed in producing the innovation-critical metals?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-169	Madam President, I would like Five parties, including the Green Party and the Christian Democrats, have agreed that Sweden will have 100 percent renewable electricity production in 2040. Nuclear power is not renewable, and if we are to reach the target of 2040, then nuclear power will not be there. I do not understand how Penilla Gunther thinks there is a kind of attempt at a distorted interpretation of the energy agreement. My logic is that there is no need for uranium if we do not have nuclear power because uranium is used as a fuel for nuclear power plants. Do the Christian Democrats make a different assessment? What is the need for uranium mining if we do not have nuclear power? When it comes to Penilla Gunthers's question about what happens to other mineral extractions in Sweden, I wonder if Penilla Gunther has read the bill. It clearly states that this is about uranium mining and how to deal with the uranium that comes up as a by-product, and it will continue to be possible. This is clearly stated in the bill. What is the difference and the change in this legislation is that uranium must not be extracted and enriched. We still have today and will continue to have uranium in the mining waste that exists. That means no change. I wonder if Penilla Gunther has any example of what she means by this product that would mean a change in the extraction of other minerals. I agree with her that in our energy and climate transition we need many rare earth metals. We need to discuss and ensure that we can extract them safely. But there is absolutely no justification for confusing this with this legislation.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-174	Madam President, I would like I repeat what I have said a number of times here before. There is no party, as far as I know, that has been mentioned in the last few decades that we in Sweden should be able to enrich uranium. Nor, for me and for the Christian Democrats, is it a question of extracting uranium for its own sake. What is at issue here is precisely what Lise Nordin mentions, namely the need to be able to extract other metals and minerals where uranium becomes a by-product which is nevertheless being addressed. It is strange if, in all other contexts, we are talking about trusting those who know the issues in the various sectors. As politicians, we don't know everything. We must have confidence in those who work in different industries. But in this case we do not have confidence in the mining industry in Sweden that has existed for several hundred years. Then the knowledge seems to be completely blown away about how to extract the different products needed for us not least to be able to use our mobiles and computers. What Lise Nordin mentioned at the beginning was that there are apparently examples of companies that want to break uranium in Sweden. I'm very interested in knowing which companies it's about. We should not believe that companies that break uranium in other countries necessarily want to do so right here.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-177	Madam President, I would like I'll start with what Penilla finished with. She asked for examples of companies that have searched and searched for uranium in Sweden. Continental Precious Minerals is one of the big companies that do it. You can google on that later, Penilla. To my question about how this legislative product means a weaker age or a deterioration for the other mining industry, Penilla Gunther answers me that we should listen to the mining industry. I maintain that the proposal is very clear about uranium mining and that it does not mean any change for other mineral extractions. We will continue to have a certain amount of uranium as a by-product that is treated as mining waste in Sweden. The big difference now is that no company can say that they are looking for, for example, vanadium or neodymium even though they are actually looking for uranium. With this legislation, it becomes clear that you are free to explore and search for all minerals, as today, but you cannot base your economy on extracting and enriching uranium. We do not want uranium mining in Sweden. Penilla Gunther says that there is no one who has said that we should have uranium mining in Sweden. Yes, it does. Not many years ago we had a prime minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, who also expressed in the media that it is logical that Sweden investigates the possibility of having uranium mining. I think it is clear that there are different political opinions as to whether or not we should have uranium mining in Sweden. I am pleased if the Christian Democrats do not want uranium mining in Sweden, but then they should support the proposal that is being put forward. I can't get Penilla Gunthers's reasoning together. She's talking about other mining, but it's very clear that this is about uranium mining. If you do not want uranium mining, a legislative ban is the only safe way. This has been asked for in so many areas. Now they can finally breathe out.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-183	Madam President, I would like I have a simple question. There is much talk of the unrest from different areas. At the same time, we have a municipal veto. Don't you trust the communities to make the right decision? Is that what this is about? Should we sit in Stockholm and say: Well, in these areas they don't know any better. We have to decide over their heads. Is that what this is all about? We already have a municipal veto and incredibly difficult legislation. You have to apply for support from the municipality. Why should a decision like this be made in Parliament?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-185	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Bali, for the question. Yes, we have a municipal veto. However, the localities concerned are calling for national legislation because they believe that the current regulatory framework is not sufficiently clear or long-term. Hanif Bali's own colleague Katarina Jonsson, who is Chairman of the Municipal Board of Skövde, welcomed the announcement of this bill. She said: Finally we get clarity. Why is Hanif Bali against a statutory ban on uranium mining if he does not want to see uranium mining in Sweden?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-188	Madam President, I would like I am against the legislation because it inhibits mining of innovation-critical minerals, as SGU and the experts in the field say. This reduces confidence in the Swedish mineral industry. This can also be seen in different rankings. Sweden loses in international ranking when it comes to investors' confidence that we are a functioning mineral nation. That is why we are opposed to legislation. But when will this end? I can understand investors who get worried. Do you want to ban mining of lead, for example? Or other metals that you consider to be dangerous for the day? Sure, there is something moderate municipal councillor who thinks it's nice to pass the matter on to the Riksdag. But why can't you just make decisions locally and say you're against this and have a veto? You cannot give anyone the right to introduce a veto, and he then says: We think our veto is too weak. It's gonna be a self-contradictory. If there are municipal vetoes and there is a consensus in the municipality that there should be no breakup, the matter is clear. Why, then, should a national ban be imposed? Logic doesn't make sense. It is about making symbolic politics, and it is a symbolic policy that has huge negative consequences for Swedish mineral industry. But a complex reality has never been a problem for the Green Party. A complex reality has never been the speciality of the Green Party. It's only been about a variable and just being able to keep one thought in your head at the same time. You only have simple symbolic policy proposals and you do not think about the consequences of them. This is the problem with the Green Party. The fact that the Social Democrats agree to this is absolutely incredible when, at the same time, they say that we should be a mining nation.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-192	Madam President, I would like After this rather long debate and several replicas, no one has yet given an answer to how this legislation would hamper the Swedish mining industry, except in the case of uranium mining. There seems to be an interest in spreading a concern. Anyone reading the bill can clearly see that it is about uranium mining and that if uranium continues to follow as a by-product when searching for other metal, it will be treated as mining waste. It's just like today. It is obvious that the Moderates speak with a split tongue. Former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said he wanted uranium mining in Sweden. Local moderate representatives say they don't want uranium mining. I do not think it has been very clear in today's debate what the Moderates think. Do they want uranium mining in Sweden or not? In that case, I think it is reasonable for them to respond to where this break should take place. One must take that responsibility and also stand up in the country for the consequences of one's policy. Mr Bali asks why the municipal veto that exists today cannot be satisfied. The answer to that is that it is a very long process. There will be many years of unrest in the areas during the time when companies are searching for uranium, can test drilling and before the question comes to the municipality for a decision. This means many years of a wet blanket over these places. What kind of business policy is that? It's not a good business policy. This decision provides clarity, and that should be asked for by everyone, both those living in the localities concerned and the mining industry. Now we know that uranium will not be extracted in Sweden in the future.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-196	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we need to protect the environment and sustainable development, while also wanting economic development in terms of competitiveness and enabling innovation. It is important that environmental work and the business climate go hand in hand. It is therefore fun to see how it is invested in battery production in Sweden. However, the Liberals are concerned that the bill will lead to a weakened Swedish mining industry. We therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with a revised proposal that does not affect the competitiveness of the mining industry. Madam President, I would like The signal value is also important. To suddenly change the regulations by banning a mineral we believe can damage Sweden's international reputation as a mining nation. Given the criticisms of the referral bodies, we believe that international companies will most likely wonder on what grounds the Swedish government makes such a decision and how Sweden is considering the issue of banning more minerals in the future. Uranium is a mineral that today is not actively mined in Sweden. However, we do break a lot of other minerals. We also know that there are deposits of, for example, cobalt and a number of rare earths. This means that we can see the need for increased mining of innovation-critical minerals. Uranium is very common with rare-earth metals used, among other things, in battery production, so-called battery metals or innovation-critical metals – so common that uranium is often used as a lead metal to find the battery metals. We believe that a ban on the extraction of uranium would make it more difficult to explore and extract such metals. That, in my opinion, is the main argument against the government's proposal. Chalmers University of Technology believes that the rate of change in the mining industry is so high that we should not close the possibility of mining minerals at all. The Liberals, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, urge the government to come back with a new bill that does not hamper this opportunity to extract innovation-critical minerals and that can better protect the Swedish mining industry's competitiveness. Tesla cars, new batteries, mobile phones – our new technology and the green revolution depend on minerals. Today, many of these innovation metals in conflict countries are broken under disastrous conditions. I think that all of us here have read the terrible stories of cobalt mines in DR Congo and other countries where little children are forced to dig out this type of metals to our mobile phones with their bare hands. In our opinion, it would be much better if we could find a future vision that we should have Swedish cobalt mines under our strong environmental legislation and our good working conditions. However, we believe that this prospect is now being made more difficult by the government's proposals. We ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-204	Madam President, I would like This is perhaps the last chance in the debate to get a response from those who claim that this legislation makes the extraction of other minerals more difficult. I'd like to know what they mean. What would affect the extraction of other minerals in the proposal? It is a statement that we have heard time and again in this debate, but no one has specified what is meant. If there is no answer to that, then I think that we can only dismiss this as an attempt to spread concern and note that they are actually opposed to this proposal for other reasons. Never have I heard bourgeois politicians so engaged in the green transition and in environmental technology as in this debate, when they want to defend that it should be allowed to break uranium in Sweden. Yes, we will need many new metals for the conversion to more electric cars, solar cells and other important technologies that we need to switch to fossil-free Sweden. However, the product we are debating today is about whether or not we should have uranium mining. Uranium is one of the problems with nuclear power. Now that we in Sweden have a target of 100% renewable electricity production, there is no longer the need for uranium. Maria Weimer and the Liberals talk about the reports that exist about very terrible working conditions in mining minerals around the world. It is a very big problem, and I hope that we can talk more about it politically. But it has very little to do with this debate. This commitment to working conditions in other countries can also be linked to consumption in Sweden. This is a question that we should discuss when discussing international trade agreements and what requirements Sweden should make on different products and on manufacturing in other countries. Let's discuss it then! But in those questions, it's pretty quiet, I think. However, this proposal is about whether or not we should allow uranium mining in Sweden. I would ask Maria Weimer to clarify how this proposal would interfere with or affect the extraction of other minerals in Sweden.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-208	Madam President, I would like It is a bit sad if Lise Nordin suggests that we are silent on issues of human rights and mining in other countries. That is not the case. It is also sad if Lise Nordin suggests that we are not involved in issues of environmental technology, green innovation and development. It is enough to read our budgets and hear about our proposals in this area. Nor do we propose uranium mining. What we think is that the legislation in place today is sufficient. Three separate permits are needed, three different laws are linked to uranium mining, a government decision is required and there is a municipal veto. That is why we and a number of referrals see this risk. This sends a negative signal that can affect our international competitiveness in mining and make mining of innovation minerals more difficult. It is described in the explanations given by the consultation bodies. Appropriately, it should be considered that the SGU is a better expert on this issue than Lise Nordin or myself.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-211	Madam President, I would like It seems difficult to find an answer to the question of how this legislation makes the extraction of other minerals more difficult. Now the issue has been raised many times, and I still see no example of what would make it more difficult. This is very clear about uranium mining, which should not be enriched or prospected. But it is very clear in the proposal that uranium can continue to be included as a by-product in the extraction of other minerals, and then it is treated as mining waste, just as it is today. Maria Weimer says that today's legislation is sufficient. My assessment is probably that even with the legislation in force up to this decision it is unlikely that uranium mining would take place in Sweden. But uncertainty and uncertainty have major negative consequences. That is why this clarity is important. As I have said before, there are many places in Sweden that have lived and still live with concern that there may be uranium mining. The process of a company comes to Sweden and wants to apply for uranium, test drill and then apply to be allowed to break takes many years. There are many examples in Sweden of various initiatives that do not happen because of the threat of uranium mining. What kind of rural or industrial policy is it to continue to live with that uncertainty? What further adds to the uncertainty of many people in Sweden is that several of the bourgeois politicians give different answers if they believe that uranium mining can and should take place in Sweden. We had only a few years ago a prime minister, Moderate Fredrik Reinfeldt, who said he wanted uranium mining in Sweden. Then there are other bourgeois politicians who say that there should not be uranium mining in Sweden. This ambiguity is of no benefit to anyone. The only clear thing if you do not want uranium mining in Sweden is to legislate for a ban.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-214	Madam President, I would like The question of different answers is very interesting, because in today's debate the two government parties have given diametrically different answers to the question of how to interpret the energy agreement. If I were part of the alliance parties that supported it, I would be accursed by the kind of interpretation that we are told that 100% renewable means that with political decisions we should put nuclear power down prematurely. There have also been other hints. This is certainly not the interpretation we hear from, for example, moderate representatives. Unfortunately, two different interpretations and two different answers affect this issue as well, and the Green Party and the Social Democrats seem to be on completely different sides. What we mean in our opposition to this proposal is that we believe that it can affect the mining of other minerals. We are not saying that we should break uranium in Sweden. We have no such proposals. It's not something we're running. Nor, as we have heard, is there any other party doing so today. We refer to the experts that exist, including Chalmers University of Technology, who believe that the rate of change in the mining industry is high and that we should not close the door to mining a certain mineral before we know what the future looks like in five ten years' time. That's the most important reason to be against this bill.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-216	Madam President, I would like We have discussed in part the proposal put forward by the government. However, there is not really much debate when it is approved by the committee. On the other hand, there is another happy news in the report. It is a review of the private copying allowance, what is called the cassette tape tax. It is simply a law that was introduced at the time we had cassettes in this country where we copied mixed tapes to each other and gave to loved ones or played by that great Braveheart film from TV4 down in the vhs cassette. The point was that we would simply replace copyright holders for the use of the cassettes. It was a very good way to still be able to have private copying and share material with each other before internet time but at the same time be able to do it in a legal way. The problem has been that now no more cassettes are used. In the past, efforts have been made to switch to storage media and try to tax the size of mp3 players and the size of different types of devices or hard drives. The problem with that is that there is now no connection. Already there was a rather weak connection between the size of the storage media you have and how much you private copy compared to, for example, cassettes where there is a very clear such connection. Today, that link is missing at all. Now most even use streaming services and storage media on, for example, the phone, which definitely can be used to listen to music and so on. But you do not really use the storage space itself to tape or save music or other copyrighted material, but the storage space is used for, for example, photos of loved ones. As today's legislation is, the problem is that you simply have to pay a tax on having a large storage space on your hard drive or on your mobile phone. Of course, it has nothing to do with how much people private copy. We think that the current legislation is simply too old and does not follow. Instead of being a fair remuneration to copyright holders for how much private copying takes place, it has become a mere taxation. A private company has been granted a private tax right with a tax base that is the storage space and has nothing to do with the actual amount of private copying. It just doesn't follow. That is why a united committee has agreed to ask the government to investigate this. This government is fucked. But hopefully the next government will be able to get to work so that we get a more reasonable and better model for private copying payments. That is particularly pleasing to me. I think I was 19 years old when I was exercising in the Moderate Youth League that we should abolish the private copying allowance. It is very nice to be present when the Moderates as a party have renewed and changed their view on this and consensus has suddenly been reached in the Swedish parliament. I therefore support the committee's proposal on this point. We also have some reservations. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. We are obviously behind our other reservations, but for the spirit of time we choose to apply only for reservation 1. This applies, for example, to streaming from an illicit source. There we want to review legislation on the criminalisation of streaming from sites. The problem is that the sites are not illegal. It's about those questions.
i-AAfU5iofmakrEqMG2K7MNZ	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 14, reinforced resale rights. The report also deals with motions from general exercise on intellectual property issues. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation, namely Amendment No 2, which I call for. It's about streaming services. Today, however, we are going to talk first of all about the private copying allowance. I would like to begin by thanking the members of the committee for making a unanimous announcement to the government that the system of private copying compensation should be reformed. A year ago, the Swedish Democrats stood in this Chamber and were the only ones to propose reform in this area, but now we have all seven other parliamentary parties. It is not least gratifying that it is the change that means that the payment responsibility for a possible private copying payment should lie with the State rather than with an industry organisation as is the case today. Madam President, I would like As the previous speaker mentioned, the rules for private copying were created and were designed at a time when music was copied into old cassette tapes, among other things. Since then, as everyone knows, there has been some technological development. It's a pretty good technological development. As it appears, compensation is paid by the industry that imports, manufactures and sells products that can be used for private copying. Today, when the tapes are over, it is about hard drives, memory cards, and the like. When you buy a hard drive for, say, a five-hundred, 80 kroner will go to the branch organization Copyswede. It will be like an extra tax, in this case at as much as 16%. If you are now to buy a new phone with 128 gigabytes of storage, the equivalent of SEK 384 goes to Copyswede. The fee is thus imposed on dealers who have reduced their competitiveness compared to competitors abroad. But at the end of the day, it is of course the consumer who has to pay a higher price for his electronics. As a result, many may shop for hard drives and such if they are large consumers from abroad. They simply opt out of the Swedish dealers. That is, of course, most regrettable. The baroque aspect is that fewer and fewer people in society use their hard drives and phones to copy music and movies. Today, almost everyone may have Spotify for their music consumption and various streaming services, such as Netflix and the like, for their film consumption. It is therefore entirely legal services, but it is still forced to pay the private copying fee. For example, if you want extra backup for your computer to reflect what you have stored and secure it, it should be paid. If you want a lot of space on your phone to be able to film and photograph, it should also be paid. Now, at least, we have agreed here in Parliament. There is, as it stands, a great consensus that it should be reformed. We now hope from the Swedish Democrats for a more thought-out legislation that takes note of the fact that the technology has run away from the legislation.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-233	Madam President, I would like The report itself contains four parts: the proposal for enhanced resale rights but also a review of private copying compensation, streaming from illicit sources and other intellectual property issues. I'm going to comment on the resale right a little bit. It applies when original works of art are resold within the period of validity of copyright, i.e. 70 years after the death of the author. In practice, this means modern and contemporary art. When a work of art is resold after the first transfer, the author of the work shall in certain cases be entitled to special compensation. This is what we call a resale right in the report and the bill. The aim is, of course, to strengthen the image and design artists' position and to give them part of the economic exchange that trade in their works creates in several stages after they have sold the work for the first time. Today, the responsibility for collecting and forwarding the compensation lies with a collecting society. The organisation shall be able to check which art dealers and auction companies are liable for compensation, and shall report this once a year. The difficulty has been that this has been done on a voluntary basis. The organisation shall require data, and then report. The change of law, which I support, means that this should be automated and that you should report what you have sold once a year. In this way, artists will be able to get better paid, and you will get a better follow-up of how it works. What is proposed is that professionals in the art market, sellers, intermediaries and buyers should automatically submit the accounts to the organisation without having to request them. The report and the investigation itself have discussed the limits to be applied. Today it is one twentieth of the price base amount. During this period, no follow-up allowance will be paid. The investigator wanted it to be a tenth of the price base amount. A twentieth is about $240 (U.S.), and a tenth is $480 (U.S.). However, many of the consultative bodies wanted it to remain at the lower level. When you look at how many works of art are sold, you notice that not all paintings sold are Zorn paintings. Almost half of all works of art subject to resale rights cost between SEK 2 000 and SEK 5 000. If the bar were to be set at about $2,500, many artists would miss the compensation. Therefore, the proposal remains at one twentieth of the price base amount. Madam President, I would like I am delighted that we have been able to reach agreement in committee and that all parties have compromised and done a good job. In the report, a unanimous committee proposes an announcement to the government in response to a number of motion requests during the year. Private copying compensation was introduced, as many here have said, just over 30 years ago when there was a tax on cassette tapes. You may remember that it was the length of the cassette tape that decided. I think there were 45, 60 and 90 minutes of band, and there you sat with your pen and tangled up the tapes. Anyone younger than me may not know how that works. So there was a tax on cassette tapes, and then there was also a tax on vhs cassettes, for copying lp-records and recording television programs. The private copying payment shall provide reasonable compensation to copyright holders for the damage caused by possible private copying by consumers. This should not be confused with piracy, which is something else. Piracy is illegal. This is about private copying. Under current Swedish law, compensation is linked to a product's storage capacity. It was natural when it came to a vhs band and the length of the band. According to the Copyright Act, the compensation is to be charged on devices that are – and this is important – specifically dedicated to private copying of sound and moving images. That's what the law says. In Sweden we have a system in which the market companies will negotiate with the trade association Copyswede on remuneration levels of different products. However, the negotiations have not worked for years because of different views on how to deal with this. The parties have different views on which products are to be included, how much it is actually privately copied and what copying is. This has led to a large number of legal disputes concerning the products specifically devoted to private copying and the fees to be charged. The processes, which will be even more numerous if we do not change this, mean considerable legal uncertainty for both industry and copyright holders. The Court has also pointed this out: we have no good legislation as it is right now. An increasing number of products are considered to be particularly devoted to private copying. As some colleagues have highlighted, it is about smart phones, computers and tablets. It is also not quite clear what fees should be paid. The consumption of film and music has changed in an incredibly radical way since the law was written. Today's media consumption is no longer based on physical copies, but on services such as Spotify, Netflix and others. Consumers do not copy music, film and television because they receive such content through legal streaming services and other payment services where copyright holders are paid for private copying. Most of the evidence suggests that private copying is declining at a rapid rate and is relatively small today. Can it be considered that smartphones, computers and tablets are especially dedicated to private copying? Is that a general view? The current legislation, which involves taxing memory capacity, will make the cost as memory capacity increases also dramatically increase. There is no reasonableness in this. It is stated in the legislation that the damage to which copyright holders are subject shall be in relation to the compensation. This has disappeared with the system we have today. Consumers have to pay twice: for the streaming service and for the memory capacity. We can't have that. The EU directives that set the framework for national legislation on private copying are based on the damage suffered by the copyright holder, while the Swedish compensation is based on the size of memory. We already have an error there. There are several countries that have made changes to the private copying allowance. Finland has completely abolished the system and takes this through the state budget. Norway has a similar system, and Denmark is in the process of changing its compensation system. I therefore welcome the fact that a unanimous committee has supported the need to examine the current regulatory framework in order to obtain a system that generates a reasonable remuneration for authors. Then it may be that the compensation has to go through the state. Finally, Madam President, I would like to address an issue which is included in the form of a motion. I think that someone else will come back to the issue later. It's about pictures of public art. How many of you sitting in this Chamber have taken a picture of a statue and laid out on Facebook? One, two, three, four... I'd think everyone's done it. You do know that you're breaking the law, don't you? The members of the Swedish Parliament are thus in breach of the law. The Patent and Market Court said in July 2017 that even private individuals are not allowed to post images of public art on social media. My advice to you is that you get an old Instamatic camera, go and buy a film roll– if you can find one – send in the roll for development and request several copies, as you could do in the past. Then you hand out the pictures of public art to your friends, because that's okay! Your friends may be a little surprised, but at least it's okay and legal. This link is also available to Wikimedia Sweden, which received a judgment against it in the Supreme Court in 2016. Wikimedia is a non-profit-making non-profit organisation. Private persons take pictures of public art in their hometown and post them because they want to show off what they have in their hometown. You write something about art, urge others to make a visit and so on. So it is illegal; that is not the case. Even if there is no profit, no commercial purpose, it must not be done. Then I feel that we have legislation here that is running away from us again. Now we are not dealing with this in the report, except that it is in the report, but we should review the legislation in this area too. When virtually all people in Sweden break the law, the question is whether it is not high time to review the legislation. I would like to ask for the approval of paragraph 1 of the report on enhanced resale rights in which the committee agrees, and I would also like to ask for the approval of paragraph 1.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-255	Madam President, I would like What does it cost not to safeguard the small knowledge-driven company's most important resource, the intangible assets? What we are debating today is part of the intangible assets, and that is something that needs to be discussed much more, and much more is being done today. I have a background as a job-creating entrepreneur and I know the value of an idea. These are the ideas that have built Sweden strong. These innovations have been developed in Sweden because we have a long tradition of ownership and legal certainty. That freedom is worth defending, and we in the Liberals will continue to do so. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most innovative countries. Every year, Swedish companies invest billions in research and development. Intellectual property law is important for the country's growing and welfare-creating companies. A patent or trademark registration gives legal protection to the creator who has invested time and creative power in his idea. The proper functioning of intellectual property is therefore a necessary factor to stimulate research and to encourage innovation, product development and cultural creation. Copyright is thus part of ownership and a prerequisite for a well-functioning market economy. It is thanks to copyright that you can create culture and charge and control your works. Copyright is thus an important prerequisite for cultural creation. Technology increases the accessibility of culture, and as new technologies and ways of taking part in culture develop, copyright must also be modernised. Compared to earlier, for example, today more distributors of film and music services that we consider to have been well received by Sweden's consumers. This shows that it is possible to protect copyright and modernise it in order to exploit legal opportunities with file sharing and other digital technologies. Looking at global value chains in the world, we can see that the jobs of the future are largely in the creative industry with lots of driven, skilled and innovative entrepreneurs. But this requires both better conditions for the industry and better opportunities to protect their materials. Liberals will always stand up for copyright and the opportunity to make money from their creativity and creativity, whether it's about music, film, literature or some other form of creation. However, one of the more important tasks of policy in the coming years is to make sensible political balances in the age of digitalisation in order to affirm this industry. We believe in a combination of measures: self-regulation in business, public information and legislation that protects and strengthens copyright. Madam President, I would like Sometimes we have a picture of ourselves as early adopters, that is, early when it comes to taking in new technology. That is what we are at both national and individual level. We are at the forefront of technology, and so in many ways it is not wrong to have that picture. Unfortunately, our self-image is increasingly based on historical facts than on what it looks like today, and even worse is it if we look ahead. We are losing our position in many areas of technology where the outside world is catching up at a rapid pace and sometimes past. However, there are a number of areas where we stand out. One of these is digital media consumption. If we look at all music sales in Sweden in 2015, we see that streaming services accounted for as much as 82.7 per cent of sales while physical sales accounted for 14 per cent and downloaded sales for poor 2 per cent. If we look at the pattern of consumption in the film industry, we see the same pattern of behaviour. Nearly 40 per cent of all households currently subscribe to at least one film service. In just over four years Netflix has received more than 1 million subscribers in Sweden. In short, Swedish consumers have largely stopped buying cassette tapes, videotapes, CD albums, DVD films, etc. Unfortunately, the legislation relating to the remuneration of rightholders has not been followed. Several others have highlighted this during the debate. Since the 1970s, all consumers of certain consumer electronics pay a fee to rightholders. It is intended to compensate for the fact that consumers make their own copies of music and films or cassettes, as it once was. This is where consumers come under pressure. There have been several organisations that have lifted up – Sweden's Consumers are one of them. Consumers should not have to pay double in the form of a private copying fee and subscription fee to service providers to use the streaming services. Moreover, it is also a matter of principle that you do not pay a fee for something you do not use yourself. In the long term, it is not good for rightholders in a broad sense or for confidence in copyright, which is eroded by legislation that is perceived as ancient, incomprehensible and unfair. Thus, as a high-tech country, we need modern and digital copyright that benefits both consumers and rightholders. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the committee for the good discussions and deliberations on the announcement on which we are to vote today and, above all, for the approval of my motion to welcome service-based media consumption in the future. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-268	Madam President, I would like Knowledge and quality lay the foundation for Sweden's competitiveness. One challenge is to take advantage of and create the conditions for the creativity, inventiveness and creativity of every person and even activities. In such a context, the immaterial issues raised by this report are becoming increasingly important for both business and cultural life as well as for society as a whole. It concerns established corporate groups but also new entrepreneurs or artists. It includes concepts such as Swedish music envy, film, brand building, design and technology. Digitisation, which everyone is certainly well aware of, has brought new challenges, but also problems to relate to. Sweden is and should be a country at the forefront in this area. To achieve this strong position in the global context, it is important to have an up-to-date and well-balanced focus. As I see it, there is always reason to protect copyright and, not least, respect for it. Joint responsibility is an important basis for the Swedish model as such to be able to be an asset also in the future. As individual citizens, we want to comply with the laws and rules that apply. This in turn is based on their understanding and acceptance. A large part of the work also requires cross-border solutions, especially from an EU perspective. What we can achieve nationally, of course, we should take on board. The Government's proposal on enhanced resale rights, which we are dealing with today together with 24 motion requests, is another step on the way to strengthening the importance of intellectual property issues for growth and jobs. Here the creative innovator, in this case the artist, is highlighted. The starting point is to improve the ability of artists to carry out their activities. The proposed legislative amendments will enter into force on 1 July of this year. I demand approval for the very proposal on the resale right. As has been said, no motions have been raised on the basis of the proposal as such. However, there are 24 motion requests from general exercise time that address intellectual property issues from a broader perspective. Around these there is a unanimous committee text on a notice to review the private copying allowance. On this subject, a unanimous proposal has been made during the committee's preparation. The starting point has been to take into account possible opportunities for improvement. Constructive and pragmatic discussions have taken place between the parties. I therefore support the committee's proposal regarding the publication of a review of the private copying allowance and, in addition, the rejection of the motions under points 3, Streaming from unlawful sources, and 4, other intellectual property issues. Madam President, I would like On the issue of the private copying allowance, I would like to highlight Copyswede and the cultural organisations coordinating collective bargaining. They have written a letter to us, pointing out that dramatists, writers, actors, musicians and others through this system receive the compensation they are entitled to. Our decision means that a review of the system should be carried out, which I welcome and think is a good thing. Of course, however, we need to continue to have a dialogue and a dialogue with the relevant representatives and parties in order to have a good system in the future. The review that is now being highlighted is therefore a good one. We need to address issues of reasonable remuneration, technology neutrality and legal certainty, as well as the question of the relationship with the EU legal framework. Madam President, I would like More recently, a number of initiatives have been taken to strengthen copyright and patents at European level, and the Swedish Government has been proactive in several of these matters. A new copyright framework is part of the EU's Digital Single Market Strategy. It is also about ensuring greater access to content within the EU, adapting certain exceptions to the cross-border environment, achieving a well-functioning copyright market and providing an effective and balanced enforcement system as such. From 1 April this year, we as consumers have also had the opportunity to use streaming services for sports, film and television, for example, when we are travelling within the EU. An important part of the work to strengthen intellectual property rights at national level was given in 2016 to the Swedish Patent and Registration Office; it concerns the dissemination of knowledge and information on the issues. They have been working on this in a good way ever since. In 2017, they received a complementary assignment aimed at better understanding the meaning of copyright and its scope and limitations by public actors, industry and the general public, and at making this part of the activities carried out in different contexts. Particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in order to prevent and prevent brand infringement. The work will be carried out in cooperation with the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the police, the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Medical Products Agency. The Swedish Media Council has also been tasked with informing children and young people about copyright. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has initiated and conducted round-table discussions with representatives of a large number of stakeholders, all of whom to varying degrees are affected by the unlawful handling of rights-protected materials. The government is considering moving forward in this work. Madam President, I would like Finally, a few words about this with gross copyright infringement and gross trademark infringement, which is also mentioned in the text. A special investigator has been asked to consider whether the scale of penalties for the most serious cases needs to be tightened. In his report, the investigator proposes the introduction of serious crimes of a specific scale for copyright infringement and infringement. Prosecutors shall be allowed to prosecute when this is called for from a general point of view. Special courts have been established in the form of the Patent and Market Court and the Patent and Market Court of Appeal. These are certainly issues that may have a greater impact on the activities of the Committee on Justice, but they also have their obvious bearing on business, entrepreneurship and jobs. An important starting point is that the creators of a work should receive a reasonable remuneration, that counterfeiting should be counteracted and that creative industries and technology development should thus be able to continue to contribute to societal development and growth.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-281	Madam President, I would like This year we have the strongest cultural budget ever in Sweden. Thus, of course, we have also been able to strengthen the conditions for artists. However, every broad artistic debate tends to lead to the conclusion that artists' conditions can not only be dealt with within the remit of the Committee on Culture but is also very much a matter for both the Committee on Employment and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I am therefore very pleased that a united Committee on Economic Affairs has now taken an artistic policy perspective and put forward proposals for a strengthened resale right. Artists cannot make their living simply through the purchase of public art or artistic scholarships. Basically, there must also be systems to ensure that artists receive a reasonable remuneration for their work. Here the resale right, i.e. the right for artists to also receive compensation in the secondary sale of art, is absolutely central. The resale right has existed for a long time in Sweden, but with a slightly reverse construction. It is the artists' rights organisations that have had to ask for information about the art that has been sold. Now we are turning this responsibility around so that it is the art dealers who have to account annually for which art has been sold during the year. This is, of course, expected to lead to more artists receiving their legitimate resale right and thus to a strengthening of the artists' economy. But I would also like to say that in the long term this will strengthen the conditions for the art trade. Many professional artists today have to work with other things to support themselves. By strengthening the economy for artistic work, artists can focus more on that work and thus create more art. Of course, there is no art trade without art. The National Association of Artists, KRO, has long made demands to implement this change. This was something I took on board in one of my first parliamentary movements. The time was not quite ripe for that then, so I am glad that it is now so that we will have a decision on the matter during the term of office. Regarding the exercise that I presented during general exercise last autumn, time has matured faster. It concerns the private copying allowance, which many have debated here before. I and other sportsmen have put forward the proposal that the current private copying system should be scrapped and replaced by a state responsibility, so that the state instead accounts for the remuneration of the rightholders. The private copying compensation system had a built-in bug already when it was established – the cassette tax, as it is called in the public domain. Even the person who bought cassettes just to record his own music had to pay a fee, which then went to other authors. However, there was legitimacy in the system from the start because the majority of the cassettes sold during the cassette era, if you may call it, were used to record music from radio and lp-records. So the legitimacy was there, but it is no longer there because today we have a fee based on media layerers that are not in any way used to store or copy material that someone else has produced, but to save their own images, files or films. Our neighbours have found that the system has survived itself. In Finland and Norway, as we have heard, the systems have changed. In Denmark, a change in the system is under way. It is time that we in Sweden also took after wise neighbours and reformed the system here. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. The reservations are only about breaking open doors by commissioning the government to do what it already does. That is perhaps why none of the reserves has actually spoken out in favour of their respective reservations.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-291	Madam President, I would like Making the best use of digitalisation is one of the most important tasks we as politicians have for the future. How we choose to regulate, or even whether we choose to regulate or not, is crucial to how digitalisation of our society takes off and is shaped. New technical solutions create new opportunities to share and exploit the resources available. By coordinating activities and sharing material assets, a common economy can be created. Properly designed, the exploitation of digitalisation becomes a success story that builds Sweden stronger. Dangerous moments or harmful monotonous data that occur today can, for example, be taken over by computers and robots. Wrongly, it will be if legislation and regulations hinder positive technological developments. It is also important that we see how the benefits of digitalisation are distributed. In an app economy, a worker can become both a winner and a loser. It is important that the emerging collaborative economy is regulated in a way that prevents tax evasion, exploitation and wage dumping. We want to see developments where digitalisation leads to increased efficiency and environmental and climate benefits, not to lower wages and a deterioration in trade union rights. When it comes to the cultural field, the regulations are tricky. It often gets difficult and a little tricky to get to it. With today's announcement to the government, the Left Party has no ambition to reduce or limit the compensation to the creators of culture. The possibility for free cultural creators to receive a reasonable remuneration for the work they do is crucial for them to support themselves and for culture to develop. At the same time, it is important that the industries that earn money from the work of cultural creators are also those that fund the remuneration of cultural creators. As Mr Copyswede points out in his letter to the committee, it is important that the investigation looks at several aspects, such as compliance with EU law and legal certainty, while safeguarding reasonable compensation for cultural creators and ensuring that consumers do not have to pay double. However, the future requires a review, and it is therefore reasonable that there should be a basis for compensation in the future as well. I support the committee's proposal.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-296	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask you a formal question. How come I am the last in this debate? After all, Niclas Malmberg is not even a substitute in the committee. I find that interesting. We've got order. I'm always the last person else, but there's still some sort of order, isn't there? ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: That question will answer you later. ) Thank you! What a good thing that I have prepared a very brief speech for everyone's joy! With regard to this, which we can call private copying or piracy and other infringements of rights in the digital market, it has now been important for quite a few years to come up with concrete solutions. I would therefore like to emphasise that, as a Christian Democrat, I am very pleased that the committee agrees that there is a need to replace the current regulatory framework with a more appropriate system. It must generate a reasonable remuneration for the authors of the private copying that actually exists. Setting up an investigation can sometimes be thought of as something that just drags on. But the most important thing is that we agree on this and that we can expect a result for all those who have suffered damage during the time when the compensation system has not worked. I would also like to emphasise and do some advertising for the Patent and Registration Office, which has posted a film on its website about this with streaming and other services that are not always done in a legal way. They do a real knowledge puzzle for all those who may not have understood the importance of doing these things legally and what the rewards mean for those who are authors, regardless of the form in which the rewards have arisen. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-303	Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1. I will now mention the reason for this. The government's proposal is that anyone who deliberately or negligently violates a ban can be sentenced to imprisonment for a maximum of two years. So the penalty is raised in the scale of punishment. That's good. But we do not think it is good enough. We want a higher maximum level, and we also want to bring in a minimum level. We also set the lowest level, namely three months in prison, and the highest level we raise from two to four years. That's the difference. That is the content of our exercise.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-305	Madam President, I would like The legislation on protective objects aims to protect buildings, facilities and areas that are particularly important for society and not least for total defence. The present bill proposes a penalty for unauthorised access to protective objects. The offence shall be divided into two difficulty levels, including unlawful detention. For offences of normal severity, fines shall no longer be included in the penalty scale, and the penalty shall be increased from a maximum of one year in prison to two years in prison. For minor offences, fines or imprisonment for a maximum of six months may be imposed. There are several reasons why the government chooses to go forward with these proposals. In practice, the protection law has been partially abolished, since infringements are often prosecuted according to the provisions of the criminal code for unlawful infringements of the standard level. The Criminal Code thus takes precedence over the Protection Act when criminal liability is to be imposed. The consequence of this is that the penalty for trespassing often stops at fines. Aggravating circumstances are required in order for the infringement to qualify as serious and provide more interventional action. It must be considered unsatisfactory that the penalty scale of the protection law, which in fact contains both fines and imprisonment, does not have a full impact. With this tightening up of penalties, we will have a scale of penalties that is more proportionate to how we, as a society, view the seriousness of this crime while enabling the courts to arrive at more nuanced sanctions. With the proposed changes, criminal liability for trespassing on protected objects will always comply with the Swedish Protection Act. This means a stronger view of the crimes, as it can in itself be assumed that more severe penalties than fines will be considered to a greater extent than at present. It is the government's view that the type of offence of unauthorised access to protective objects should have a presumption of imprisonment. It is worth mentioning in this context that in Norway as well as Finland and Denmark there are opportunities to sentence prison sentences or other sanctions that are more intervention than fines. Madam President, I would like As is hopefully shown here, there are a number of legal arguments and arguments for changing the legislation. However, the proposals should also be seen in the light of the deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood. It is a fact that interest in intelligence retrieval and interference with both military and social activities has increased. The government is currently taking steps in a number of areas to strengthen total defence. The changes in the protection law that we are talking about here today are an important piece of the puzzle in that work. Finally, with regard to the proposal in the reservation to also make attempts, preparation and conspiracy punishable under the Protection Act, the Government agrees that there is good reason to consider moving in this direction. A majority of committees also share this view. However, the matter has not been dealt with in this memo and, therefore, in the absence of a preparation dossier, there is no provision for considering such a proposal at the moment. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-312	Madam President, I would like I think this is a good proposal. I'd like to ask you a question. After all, we want a minimum penalty – it is also a mark. Then you can discuss whether it should be two or four years... where we are higher. But why are you not prepared to go in with a minimum level? It sends a clear signal that this is a serious crime. That's the one thing I'd be grateful if you could comment. The second is what you mentioned at the end: that you were not quite finished in the memo on this. After all, we put forward an announcement, which we did not get through, that even conspiracy to commit crimes should be assessed seriously. Right now you are not prepared to do this, if I interpret you correctly. But will you yourselves raise this issue later on? And when will you be finished with such a treatment? Do you have any idea of that time relationship?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-314	Madam President, I would like Yes, I also understand that there is a broad consensus in committee that this is the right way to go. As I said in my speech, it is the government's view that the presumption should normally be prison for this type of crime. Today, it is usually a fine, because the provisions of the Criminal Code are applied. That is a problem, and that is what we want to get to grips with this legislation. In the memo, if I remember correctly, it is written that only in exceptional cases, i.e. if the offence is of a minor nature, will a milder punishment than prison be considered. Normally, it's prison. On the second issue, I do not want to speculate on timing. It is the government that has the responsibility, as it were, to push this process forward. However, the government has a preparation requirement to relate to, and evidence to go forward in this part was missing in this memo.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-317	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1, from the Swedish Democrats. In this bill, the government proposes that the basis for transgender identity or expression be added to the rules on incitement to ethnic groups. Unfortunately, Madam President, this is not the first time we have been discussing specific legislation. In the old parties' Sweden some are a bit nicer than others. But in our Sweden we actually make no difference between people and people. The government's proposal depends on a constitutional change. This fact alone places extremely high demands that the preparatory work for the bill is solid and that the proposed changes are well rooted in Swedish legal tradition. The Government's proposal is based on the content of a government public investigation carried out by a special investigator. The investigation has gathered information and views from reference groups and experts, but at the same time has completely lacked parliamentary elements. Swedish legal tradition requires that constitutional changes should generally be investigated by a parliamentary committee rather than by a small inquiry. This has not happened now, and this fact alone is certainly reason enough to consider actually rejecting the whole proposal. However, the question is whether the government can, in an acceptable way, nevertheless justify this enforcement of the law. In the previous bill, from 2001, the then Social Democratic Minister of Justice, Thomas Bodström, stated: The Government would like to point out that the persons included in the name transhumane are, of course, no less worthy of protection than others. However, even if there were to be hate speech against transgender people as a group, there is in any case no evidence that this would have happened in such a way that it could now justify any further restriction of freedom of expression. This group should therefore not be included in the provision on incitement to ethnic groups. ..................................................... In the present bill, the government states that it should be in round rolls 45 to 75 notifications per year. The Swedish Democrats therefore find that the conditions could hardly have changed so much since 2001, when the previous bill was tabled, that a restriction could now be justified. The draft law should therefore be rejected on this basis. Madam President, I would like While I have the floor, I would like to raise an issue that belongs in this context. For the Swedish Democrats, the principle of the equal value of all people is absolutely central. Therefore, all citizens are also expected to have the same rights and obligations to the public during the various events of life. This means that we are opposed to any form of unfair discrimination based on the characteristics or preferences of persons. It is therefore remarkable that the government now chooses to extend the protection of an individual group rather than, as the Swedish Democrats propose, strengthen the protection of everyone. Those who today suffer discrimination, for example on a political basis, cannot get redress. These are people who are being laid off from their jobs, who are not getting extended employment, who are being excluded from so-called non-political associations, who are being thrown out of the union or who are being denied a place to rent. It almost always happens with sweeping formulations that one does not share the common core of values – it is a foundation of values that of course is never defined in more than sweeping terms. These people today are not covered by the same protection against discrimination. Madam President, I would like Any discrimination, whether positive or negative, must end but not by continuing to stack new grounds for discrimination on each other. Neither the constitution nor any other law should list any particularly protective grounds. We talked about this in this House just a few weeks ago. For a cohesive and secure society to prevail, our common resources and forces must be used for the common good and not for the benefit of individual groups that are currently receiving the favor of the establishment. Today, having a variety of conditions and measures in relation to different personal characteristics and preferences leads to discretion as to who can be regarded as deserving of special support or as more protective than others. In other words, there is a risk of getting into an Orwellian situation: everyone is equal, but some are more equal than others. The whole of the current system of statutory discrimination grounds should therefore be abolished and replaced by a simple rule prohibiting all forms of unfair discrimination. In this way, Madam President, everyone is protected in a way that combats discrimination in a real way.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-331	Madam President, I would like Transhumans are a very vulnerable group. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, transgender people are exposed to discrimination, violence, threats and other offensive treatment to a much greater extent than the rest of the population, and that is precisely because they are transgender people. Health, especially mental health, is significantly worse in transgender people than in the rest of the population, which can probably be largely explained by the vulnerable situation of transgender people. The Left Party has for a long time been pushing and exercising to try to overcome this and to increase the criminal protection of transgender persons. That is why, of course, we welcome the government proposal, which in many ways responds to the demands that we have raised. But we also have some objections. We object to the Government – unlike what was proposed in the investigation, which was the basis of the bill and of the Council of Law referral, and what was stated in the Council of Law referral – choosing to introduce the concept of transgender identity or expression instead of gender identity or expression. So when you do this, you take your point of departure from the fact that there is a standard, and then you have something that overwrites that standard. The term has been criticised ever since it was introduced into the Non-Discrimination Act, mainly because it is written with a deviant perspective and assumes that there is a defined concept of what is the norm. In addition to pointing out something that is deviant, this also requires that a standard be maintained and that it be defined. We cannot have anything different from the norm unless the norm is clearly stated. What should be considered as typically male and female therefore needs to be defined if we are to be able to regard something as transgender. This differs from the wording of the other grounds of discrimination. Instead, the starting point has been that everyone has an ethnic affiliation, a gender and a sexual orientation. This also means that everyone is protected against discrimination related to ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation, regardless of whether the individual belongs to the group that is currently the norm. It is reasonable that all individuals should be protected from discrimination on these grounds, regardless of how gender identity or expression relates to the prevailing norm. That is why this should be changed in a way that removes the digressive perspective. The Swedish concept in the Non-Discrimination Act, which is now being introduced in more places, is also different from the concepts used at international level. That's where they say: "gender identity" and "gender expression", but in Sweden we choose "cross-gender" instead. We believe that there are several important reasons for replacing the current term, and I therefore also call for reservation 2. We also think, of course, that this should come back to all the legislation in which these expressions are used, as is seen in reservation 3, among other things. As far as the concept of race in legislation is concerned, there have also been discussions on several occasions. The government has not been able to come up with a new proposal here, and there are, as we see it, clear problems with the proposals that have existed in the past. Therefore, we want the government to return to Parliament with other proposals on how to replace that concept. At the moment, therefore, I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-341	Madam President, I would like We have a very timely time of year to debate the Constitutional Committee's report 14, the extension of criminal law protection for transgender people, because tomorrow is the International Day against Homophobic and Transphobia. This debate will therefore be a fine way for Parliament to pay attention to this. The report deals with the government's proposal with the same name as well as a number of committee movements and proposals from the general period of exercise. The proposal proposes to add the grounds for transgender identity or expression to the provisions on incitement to a population in the Freedom of the Press Regulation and the Criminal Code and to the provisions on unlawful discrimination in the Criminal Code. Crimes against ethnic groups and illegal discrimination shall also include threats and expressions of disrespect and discrimination against transgender persons. In addition, it is proposed that the same addition be made to the criminal code's prosecuting rule on insult. It is also proposed to add an explicit indication that, when assessing the criminal value, it is an aggravating circumstance if a motive for a crime has been to violate a person or group of persons because of their transgender identity or expression. I would like to express my support for the conclusions of the report. These are very long-awaited proposals. Knowledge of transgender exposure is extensive and must be taken very seriously. We know that the crime statistics show that crimes where transphobic motives can be identified are on the rise. We also know that the life situation of transgender people is largely characterised by mental illness, fear and thoughts of suicide. At the same time, those who want to have their personal identity number changed into an everyday chaos, and those who want to carry out some form of sex-correcting intervention are forced to long and extensive care processes. Transpersons' everyday lives are in many ways characterised by legal confusion and lack of regulation or regulation that does not take into account their unique life situation. In many cases, it is also the case that the strong standards that characterize the view of our respective genders clearly prevent us from taking steps forward that in a fairly simple way would make everyday life easier for many. People who defy the deeply-rooted norms of gender in society, whether it is of free will or a sense that the union society has placed you in is wrong, do not only have legal and health-care burdens to deal with. The very fact that they violate the most deeply rooted standards of how people are expected to be makes the exposure to hatred, threats, disrespect, violence and discrimination too great. In the 2012 survey carried out by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, 34% of respondents responded to violence or threats of violence in the last five years. 10 percent of respondents from Sweden said that they had been subjected to violence or threats of violence in the past year. 49 percent felt discriminated against or harassed during the same period. If you look at summaries from Transgender Europe and Ilga-Europe about the protection and rights that Europe's different countries' legislation extends to transgender people, it becomes clear that Sweden has been lagging behind in providing protection to transgender people for some time. Even when it comes to extending and extending fundamental rights to a group in desperate need of social reforms in order to live more dignified lives without standards, law and health problems that prevent, we lag behind, even though in the 1970s we were the first in the world to give transgender people the right to sex-correcting care and a new legal gender. It is against this background that the government proposal is so incredibly welcome. I see it, together with the abolition of forced sterilisations and the right to compensation for those who were subjected to them, as the first step in a long series of necessary reforms to strengthen the situation of transgender people in Swedish society. The exposure to violence, threats, disrespect and discrimination will certainly remain after the legislative proposals we are discussing today become a reality. However, we are now showing that such crimes are particularly abominable and recognise that transgender people are a vulnerable group that must be given the right to the full support of society. As we heard earlier, the committee has had discussions and debates in this House on the need to establish the various grounds for discrimination in the constitution, and when I read and hear what the Swedish Democrats have to say about this, I have to say that I am surprised. I think it is very telling that a party based in Nazism still wants the right to discriminate. We are talking about special legislation, even though it is clear that this is about groups that have been mistreated and discriminated against by society and need support. I hear that you do not want to make a difference between people and people, even though that is what these regulations are aimed at: that it should be illegal and forbidden to make the very difference between people and people. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that has not supported a single LGBTQ reform during this parliamentary term. Swedish voters must know that. This comments the party leader of the Swedish Democrats with one there. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that wants to continue to force sterilize people in this society – i.e., forcefully remove people's genitals simply because they want to change gender. It is the only party in Parliament that wants to abandon Sweden's international commitments in the area of discrimination, namely that there is an obligation to ensure that there is legislation that prohibits discrimination. It's deeply serious. Last but not least, I would like to comment on what Mia Sydow Mölleby said about the definitions. On the whole, I agree. It was now difficult to implement this at the moment, and I believe that the discussion must continue. In the future, the only reasonable thing is to have the regulations that Mia advocates. Then we would find ourselves in a situation where the grounds for discrimination actually include everyone in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank the committee, and I support the proposals contained in the report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-357	Madam President, I would like I sat in the bench and listened with excitement when Jonas Gunnarsson would get into the Swedish Democrats. It is a party that Jonas Gunnarsson has tried on several occasions to give his interpretation of. The word to throw stones in glass houses may never be more relevant than when a social democrat starts to try to define the terrible history of another party. We can, of course, spend these minutes talking about forced sterilisation and the wish to give the Adolf Hitler Nobel Prize, but I do not think it serves the debate. Of course, there are also modern examples. Now we have the issue of the grounds for discrimination, which are so incredibly re-debated, and we have had objections to a systematic approach that Social Democrats and the other parties in this House have been advocating for so long. There we differ in the way that the Swedish Democrats do not want to allow discrimination against anyone, but Jonas Gunnarsson thinks that one should certainly be able to do so. Other people should be able to be discriminated against, but not precisely those groups. If you find a new group that you think is perhaps a little more worthy of protection, that particular group can be added to the list of worthy groups. I do not understand how Jonas Gunnarsson, or someone from another party, might think that this is a good solution to the problem. Why can we not have equivalent legislation, Madam President? I don't understand that. Gunnarsson has previously had every opportunity to explain. He didn't succeed then, but I'm giving him another chance now.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-362	Madam President, I would like It is funny that in this debate the Swedish Democrats mention the forced sterilisations. We Social Democrats have actually made a deal with our history. We have been involved in the abolition of forced sterilisation. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that wants to continue to force sterilize people in today's society. They are the only ones who want to maintain the cruel attitude towards a group of people in Sweden. When it comes to the view of discrimination, a society has a responsibility to break harmful standards. This is what the Swedish Democrats clearly find difficult to understand, i.e. that discrimination based on a negative norm against a particular group must be addressed. It is not about giving people or groups special rights that make them stand in some form of higher rank than others, but it is about levelling the playing field and ensuring that groups that are so obviously vulnerable in today's society are given protection that they deserve and that the rest of us actually have only from whom we happen to be. This is the very essence of the issue of discrimination, and that is what international conventions and other things are aiming for and which the Swedish Democrats choose entirely to ignore. The talk of disrespect will not solve the problems of standards in our society. It will not solve the problems that affect transgender people, gays, lesbians, women and people of another ethnic origin. This regulation will not address the problem of subordination and standards. The Swedish Democrats do not want to solve these issues at all. It's so obvious.
i-LXUrGq7cJAyHkncfmkr1qx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Gunnarsson, for your answer. In the last debate, it sounded like that too. We haven't moved a single millimeter. The difference is that Jonas Gunnarsson accuses the Swedish Democrats of standing up for forced sterilisations. I do not know exactly what Jonas Gunnarsson is referring to. I guess this is about the debate about gender change. Earlier in Sweden, sterilizations have been considered. Then the Swedish democrats would obviously have taken a position which, according to Jonas Gunnarsson, is terrible. That would mean that only a few months ago the Social Democrats were also a terrible party because they pushed the issue to the present day. I cannot help but respond to what Jonas Gunnarsson says about our systematics not meeting these groups. But that's exactly what it does. It is a question of a formula, a systematic approach, which meets all the groups, not just a list of groups which the Social Democrats and other parties think are particularly worthy of protection at the moment. If you are to be careful to comply with international conventions – this is also something Jonas Gunnarsson and representatives of other parties often raise – you can refer to what is stated in the UN Convention on Human Rights. There are several grounds for discrimination that are not included, such as political discrimination. There are other examples of people being discriminated against that are not covered here. I have an article in my hand that says: Didn't get the job – he was a Stockholmer. Should it be a new ground for discrimination for the people who are Stockholmers? The person in the article apparently had an arrogant attitude and a loathsome dialect, and that apparently was not good enough for that employer. In fact, with the systems of the Swedish democrats, this would also fall within the scope of protection. People who have transgender identity – which clothes they want to dress in – would also be hit by this legislation. I understand that Jonas Gunnarsson has a desire to misinterpret what the Swedish Democrats say. Our solution protects far more people than his legislation does. Our team size actually includes everyone. It does not exclude, as in Jonas Gunnarsson's case, more than it includes.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-373	Madam President, I would like It was about five years ago that the question of forced sterilisations was dealt with – not a month ago. As I described earlier, Sweden was the first in the world to extend rights to transgender people. Unfortunately, there were leftovers of legislation on forced sterilisation introduced into that legislation. It was fixed during the last parliamentary term – thank God. The Swedish Democrats found it reasonable to continue to force people into unnecessary surgical procedures. From what I understand, the attitude has not changed. As I said earlier, during this term of office there has been no desire to carry out a single LGBT political reform, and it has been against everything. This comments their party leader with: Well. It must be recognised that discrimination is about structures and standards. The Swedish Democrats want to uphold harmful standards, which give them the opportunity to discriminate and put a group of people above others. That is the only reason why I can see that we actually want to abolish today's order. I agree that from time to time there may be political discrimination. In the labour market, these issues are solved in the vast majority of cases. That's good. How would this force a socialist organization to bring in racists solve discrimination problems? I do not understand why you would even want to be a member of such an organisation – if you are, for example, a Swedish democrat. There is also the question of premises. It is in many paragraphs about organisations that act in accordance with a certain value base. There some parties and movements want to get in, even though they do not actually share the organisation's basic view of society.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-379	Madam President, I would like Much – mostly good – has already been said in the debate. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. We Moderates have had a motion on this issue, and we have been pushing the issue of increased protection for transgender people for a long time. That is why we think it is positive that the investigation launched in 2014 has led to these proposals for legislative changes finally coming into place and taking place. It will mean a real practical and great difference for extremely vulnerable individuals in society. That is why we are keen to implement this change. Nevertheless, I can agree with the criticisms made here by the Left Party. Even from a moderate point of view, we would have liked to have seen the use of an expression that is not exclusive, using the gender identity, rather than the transgender identity. But it is also important for us to have legislation here and now. Waiting is not an option for us. That is why we support this proposal. Sweden has become better for LGBTQ people in recent years. The Alliance government carried out many reforms that have already been mentioned in the debate: a uniform discrimination law, gender-neutral marriages, the abolition of forced sterilisation and the possibility for LGBT people to adopt. In addition, I would like to say with regard to the negative attitudes that exist in Sweden that much has improved in many parts of the country. But it is also important to remember and point out that in many areas around Sweden it has not improved. On the contrary, unfortunately – honour repression is increasing, and the exposure to transsexuals in many of our exclusion areas is no less today than it was a number of years ago. The moderate starting point is that we, as humans, should all have the same opportunity to develop and realize ourselves according to our potential, that we should be treated equally and have equal opportunities and that no one should be forced back or held back by prejudice or discrimination. However, since this is not the case today, we believe that we, as a society and through the law we have, need to act. If we had not had discrimination, if we had all been treated equally whether we were transsexual or not, we would not have needed it. It would of course have been the best thing, but now the world and Sweden are not so. Finally, I would like to point out that not all these legislative proposals and legislative amendments will be able to come into force right now. Some of them will be dealt with together with, among other things, constitutional amendment and amendment of the Freedom of the Press Regulation at a later date. That's how it needs to be, of course.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-386	Madam President, I would like I think there is a need to clarify or perhaps show what the reservation I refer to means. I fully share Ida's view that it would be unfortunate if we were not to have legislation in place and have to wait further. Some parts of this come from 1 July and others at a later stage, when there is a new decision after the elections. I would like to point out that the reservation I refer to is not a declaration that the government should come back but a sharp bill included in our report. Annex 2 means another legislative proposal; the only difference is that instead of cross-gender identity or expression, there should be a gender identity and expression, that is, that we refrain from making a normative legislation where we refer to a kind of departure from the norm, but make legislation that meets everyone based on gender identity and expression.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that clarification from the Left Party. It was not my intention to make anyone believe in any way that in this case the Left Party did not want us to make changes in this direction. On the other hand, this investigation and those formulations received criticism, and we believe that this criticism is justified and that we cannot therefore introduce that type of wording into legislation today – although we understand and, from the outset, proposed precisely the wording proposed by the Left Party itself.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-391	Madam President, I would like I note that in other grounds of discrimination it is not such a phrase – that it should be a deviation from the norm in order to form the basis of discrimination legislation. I think it's strange. There are criticisms, but there are always balances on a legislative issue. For our part, the importance of proper legislation exceeds the importance of the criticism that exists. We look forward to improvements coming from other parties to what is being presented today and that the Moderates will push for it to be a general legislation that applies to gender identity and expression – regardless of whether they are different from the current norm. Is that how I'm supposed to interpret the post?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-393	Madam President, I would like Yes, the criticisms and formulations can be read directly in the referrals received from, among others, the Swedish Law Council. As I understand it, we have a law of discrimination designed to protect vulnerable minorities. It is not a question of the expression that transgender identity is negative to a norm, but that it should cover all of us and thus not point out, for example, transgender people as a minority that is particularly vulnerable.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-395	Madam President, I would like Being who you are should be a right for everyone in Sweden. But for some it can be a struggle every day to dare and dare to be open with their identity to friends and family, to dare to speak up in homophobic or transphobic jokes in the coffee room or to dare to be yourself out on the streets despite the opposition of the outside world. The struggle is conducted in everyday life – on the bus, on the job interview – against the standards that can be almost devastating to many people. In the past, we have heard here about the studies that have been carried out in the field of mental illness. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency's 2015 survey, more than every third trans person has considered taking their own life and one in five has been subjected to violence. In the extensive investigation that Ulrika Westerlund submitted to the government last year, there is also evidence of a purely regulatory conflict that can occur in the event of a gender shift. One person says:中 No companies seem to have routines or knowledge. At times I was without ID, without money, without a queue in the housing agency and a thousand other concerns. Besides, my free pass at the pharmacy... it was all chaos. It's complicated and tough in real life. The KU14 report deals with the Government's proposal 2017/ 18:59, extending the protection of trans-nationals in criminal matters. We also discuss two follow-up exercises and nine exercise requests from general exercise time. The proposal supported by the majority of the KU strengthens the protection of trans-nationals in criminal law. The legislative changes proposed by the government mean that transgender persons are fully protected by hate crime legislation. Today, the provisions cover, for example, skin colour, creed and sexual orientation. The proposal proposes to add the basis of transgender identity or expression to the provisions on incitement to ethnic groups, illegal discrimination and the prosecuting rule relating to insult. It must also be explicitly stated that it is an aggravating circumstance if a motive for a crime has been to violate due to transgender identity or expression. The government is also proposing a change in criminal law that is not just related to transgender persons. The provisions on unlawful discrimination and the prosecuting rule relating to insulting are extended. Of course, these changes do not solve everything. There will be much to do in the work to strengthen the rights of transgender people. However, the proposal is an important step in the right direction, and I therefore call for its approval.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-402	Madam President, I would like Anyone who knows me reasonably knows that I like to travel, both in Sweden and abroad. Here in Sweden it sometimes happens that I am told: You Members of Parliament earn far too well. Well, it's true, I earn kind of like my old purchasing manager at the county council. But that's how I work most nights and weekends, too. I know it differs according to the committee in which it is sitting, but for us in the KU it is at least so. Abroad the tone is usually the same but at the same time different. Politicians earn far too much and often have purchasing power equal to 20, 50 or even 100 times as much as the normal average wage earner. If you sit one or two terms of office, you don't have to do much more for the rest of your life. When I tell them how it looks in Sweden they almost laugh and don't really believe me. Often I get the follow-up question: But you do have a car with a private driver, right? No, I'm on a bus, a subway and a tram like anybody. What I have is a small overnight apartment, but there I am basically only when I sleep or need to wash my clothes. They also usually have some fun for some reason – that we MPs wash our own clothes just like everyone else. Apparently their politicians live in guarded mansions with a smaller army of servants serving them with than one, than the other. Then when I ask back who has decided it will be their obvious answer: the politicians themselves. Madam President, I would like This is where it can easily get out of hand, when you start to decide your own terms and benefits. It feels pretty good for me to be able to swear free and say: I am not dealing with these questions at all. We have Parliament's Board of Fees that makes all these decisions for us. So far everything could have been good, Madam President – if it were not for the natural follow-up question to be, of course: Well, and who appoints that board then? Well, of course, we have been doing that ourselves for some inscrutable reason for a few years. Then they laugh a little and say: But you will soon catch up with us. Why was this change made? I can't tell you. But what I would like to say when asked is: I have not set my terms, I have not chosen those who determine my terms and I have not even taken part in preparing the proposal. Therefore, we propose to investigate whether to return to the order that applied earlier, i.e. that the parliamentary officials produce and propose names that the Riksdag Board can decide on. After all, they still decide on the remuneration of the members of the Remuneration Board and still appoint the members of other heavy committees that can affect our everyday lives, such as the Parliamentary Board of Responsibilities and the Party Grants Board. Alternatively, there is perhaps a completely different body that is even better placed to prepare and appoint suitable persons for these delicate tasks. What do I know? Madam President, I would like The Parliament's Board of Fees has stated in its referrals that there may increasingly be conflict situations in the Board and that they would then need to have access to alternates in order to be decision-making. So why don't you just give it to them? It doesn't even have to cost anything unless the alternates have to go in and serve. Then it is clear from the outset, and both the KU and the House do not have to rush forward any ad hoc proposal for a person to choose in order for the Board to be able to deal with an individual case. I think most people realise that such a pre-arranged arrangement would be preferable. Why some seem to want to complicate things unnecessarily, they actually have to answer for themselves. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 3.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-415	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee and reject the reservations. This is not a large ideological and in principle comprehensive report such as many other KU reports, such as the previous one. It may seem a bit boring because it concerns formality and administration in the parliamentary day-to-day work. But it is not unimportant, because everyday work in the Riksdag is important. In short, the proposal is for the election of the President to take place by acclamation, that is to say, by a vote of approval, if there is only one nominated candidate. If there are more candidates, there will, of course, be another secret ballot process. It is important in this report that the procedures for interpellation debates should be changed. If there is much to be said, but here it is a question of speaking in addition to the interpeller from now on having to register at the latest during the first round of the debate rather than now, most recently in the second round. Otherwise, the provisions of the President's consultation on the time-limit for intervention responses are adapted to practice. Interpellation is an important tool for the individual MP. Many questions can be asked in this House which concern not only the own committee, but perhaps, above all, much of what is happening at home. This is given a lot of attention. It is also proposed, as previous members mentioned, that alternates should not be appointed for the members of the Remuneration Board. However, a replacement for the Chairperson shall be selected in particular, which is an important indication.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-422	Fredrik Eriksson's reasoning is interesting. This weekend I discussed our conditions with my son's mother - in - law. She is from Italy, and there are very hot questions. She had a completely different perspective from the Swedish Democrats. She appreciated how solid we are working on these issues and thought we have a good order. So you can look at it from different perspectives. The changes will enter into force on 1 September, so it will be the new Parliament that will work that way. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-424	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva-Lena-Lena. First of all, I'm a little worried. Eva-Lena Gustavsson said from the speaker that the report may not be important in principle. Of course, there are certain parts that are more formal in nature, but I would nevertheless like to say that, as I tried to exemplify in my speech, it is fundamentally embarrassing that we should go in and have views, whether we should raise or lower our own fees, and that we are involved in any of these issues. That's not why, I hope, as you and I have gone into politics... in order for us to try to shoe ourselves... but we have done so that we will try to focus on our mission and do the best for the voters. I agree with Eva-Lena Gustavsson and her son's mother-in-law. That's great, and we're in complete agreement-- that's exactly what I'm saying. When I travel and meet people from other countries and discuss these issues, I want to be able to show that we really have an unassailable order in Sweden. However, with the last amendment one that was made, I feel that it has become more consensual. I notice this from the reactions I get when I tell you about these things. I don't understand. What is the fundamental objection of the Social Democrats to having a system in which members of parliament stay at the distance of an arm's length from choosing the people who put and decide on our terms and conditions? I have one more question, but I can take it in the next post. You can start by answering this question.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-429	Madam President, I would like It is clear that this is important in principle, but in relation to what we have just discussed, I think these issues have different values. Of course you can see it differently, as you and I do, Fredrik Eriksson. It is clear that it is important in principle to have a system in which people can perceive that we are not corrupt, as they actually do in Italy, and to be able to keep things at a distance. An arm's length distance, you call it, but I call it personal integrity. It's important who's on the payroll board. It is a matter for us to really make sure to have people who are capable of personal integrity and who are able to realize when they themselves are fucked up or not. This is not unusual, but it is in all contexts where there are politically elected representatives – municipality, county council, parliament and wherever it is. You always have to think about where you stand on this issue. It's not always easy – we know that too – but there you have to lean on and get support from each other. What is the big issue here – the interpellations – we will continue to work on in the Constitutional Committee on other matters. We have an audit case there. It's an issue that lives on. Every question and order in which we have thought must be taken into account. Nothing is cut into stone.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva-Lena-Lena. After all, I take it that we agree on quite a lot. In my speech, I only touched on those parts where we disagree. When it comes to the interpellation instrument and those pieces, our party has not had a divergent opinion or follow-up motion, but we have agreed that these are important issues to work with. We also seem to agree that the objective is to maintain a distance of respect and integrity. We have slightly different opinions about it we ourselves should make these decisions and considerations, or perhaps as far as possible we should leave it to someone else, such as a professional civil service. I thought I'd come back to my second question. Eva-Lena-Lena almost recorded me there when she talked about shit situations and how problematic they can be. I noted that Mrs Eva-Lena-Lena stated in the speaker's chair that a replacement should be appointed to the chair, but it is nevertheless the case that the whole board must be present in order to be quorum. Neither the chairman nor a member shall judge themselves to be of the opinion. In this situation, the Board would not be able to prepare the case and take decisions. What is the fundamental opposition of the Social Democrats to simply ensuring that some alternates are chosen that are easily available to the remuneration board in case someone feels that it is not appropriate for them to be involved in a decision? Rather, this would motivate and make things easier for a person who feels that it is a borderline and that it might be better to step back. And then we can have a simple order in which we pick up a pre-elected alternate instead of going back to the KU and trying to prepare a new proposal that the House is going to choose and so on. Why mess it up for nothing?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-441	Madam President, I would like I think that a lot of things are still on a principled level, and then we can continue to work on this. I think we're gonna figure this out together.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-442	Madam President, I would like This case is quite different from the previous one. It is formal but also important. First of all, I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Riksdag Board's presentation Some changes to the Riksdag regime. What is proposed is that the election of the President should be conducted with acclamation if there is only one candidate. It is also proposed that the President should not be required to consult an interpellant about the meeting at which an interpellation response is to be given if the answer is given within the two-week period during which interpellations are to be answered. In addition, it is proposed that the Member of Parliament who wishes to participate in an interpellation debate should register at the latest during the first round of the debate, rather than during the second round. In addition, it must be clarified in the Riksdag Act that the Riksdag administration must notify archive regulations. Then, with regard to the matter that was raised just now, it is proposed that the Parliamentary order should make it clear that the alternates should not be appointed to R Iksdagen's Board of Fees, on the other hand a replacement for the Chairman. In addition, it states that the provision on when to answer written questions should not be amended. The same applies to the provision that the Riksdag, on a proposal from the Speaker, decides when proposals are discussed. These amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 September 2018.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-449	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for our reservation in the report to be approved. The Government proposal that this report deals with is one of the most tangiblely counterproductive legislative proposals I have seen during my almost four years in Sweden's birthday. The proposal has a good approach, namely to reduce tax evasion and tax evasion. That is a purpose that we fully support. Unfortunately, however, this proposal leads 180 degrees in the wrong direction. The proposal is essentially aimed at tightening sanctions by imposing a fine imposed on those who knowingly or unconsciously provided incorrect information to the Swedish Tax Agency, regardless of whether the error could be judged as a crime or not. Today, the Swedish Tax Agency may impose such sanctions if the Swedish Tax Agency finds the error and initiates a correction. It is a fundamentally good order, because it allows the individual to make corrections on his own without being penalised before the Swedish Tax Agency has discovered the shortcomings. You shouldn't be punished if you're doing the right thing. It doesn't have to be harder than that. If the correction means that you need to pay more tax or other charges, an interest should of course be charged, because you should not profit from paying taxes later than the regulatory framework. But you should not be punished for correcting a mistake that you find and correct yourself without the involvement of the Swedish Tax Agency. The proposal proposes that the Swedish Tax Agency should be able to collect tax surcharges after self-rectifications if the Swedish Tax Agency has informed that the work will carry out a general check, i.e. if the Swedish Tax Agency has said that you should do your job. This is provided that the correction is linked to the general control and if it is done later than two months after the end of the month in which the Tax Agency informed about its control activities. This means that if the Swedish Tax Agency, for example on its website, has informed that you are doing general tax controls and a person submits his or her self-rectification, for example three months after the information was written on the website, the Swedish Tax Agency can impose a fine as a penalty. Madam President, I would like This proposal is counterproductive. The principle goes wrong, and the proposed time window is far too short. If a person risks a tax surcharge, whether you do a self-correction or if the Tax Agency requires a correction after they have found the error, many will refrain from leaving a self-correction in the hope that the Tax Agency will not find the error. Anything else would be a sensation. Nor is there any reasoning on this risk in the proposal or in the report, which is serious, because several heavy consultation bodies have pointed to this very risk. The scheme should, of course, remain in its existing form, while the Swedish Tax Agency increases its information efforts on its controls. It will be an incentive for those who may feel that they have missed something to actually go in and do an extra check and send in their corrections. This is the only sensible way to increase incentives for people to do the right thing and thereby improve the quality of tax collection while reducing the risk of tax evasion. Instead, the Government's proposal reduces incentives to do the right thing and increases the risk of tax evasion. That is exactly the opposite of the aim of the proposal. Alternatives for Sweden believe that we should have a legally secure administration system in Sweden and that you should always be able to correct your errors and shortcomings without being punished as long as the errors are not directly criminal. Making a self-correction of an error can never be judged as a intent to commit a crime.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-457	Madam President, I would like We are debating tax surcharges today in the event of an own-initiative correction. I am very pleased to be able to talk about this amendment of the law, which has been introduced on the initiative of the Left Party. For us, issues of tax evasion, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and fairness in tax payments are extremely important. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Two years ago, the news of Panama papers exploded. A hidden world of letterbox companies registered in tax havens was brought to light. It has turned out that these companies have been used for extensive tax evasion by very wealthy people around the world, including a large number of Swedes. In addition, it emerged that banks, such as Nordea, helped these very wealthy customers to get in touch with law firms that have specialized in this particular type of semi-criminal business with hidden company formations in tax havens. We can count on a great deal of tax money being deducted from welfare through these arrangements. Among the tax frauds were, for example, executives in the television industry, a former CEO of a European market leader in candy sales, one of Sweden's perhaps most famous financiers who served on the board of some of the country's largest companies and received a medal from the king, a financier who served on boards of investment companies, banks and several well-known companies and many more. Swedish law firms are also included in these papers. In connection with these leaks it was also obvious that the reason for this rather lax attitude to paying taxes in Sweden from this group of very wealthy people is that we have had an unusually permissive attitude towards tax evasion. It has been understood as so risk-free and among certain groups culturally accepted not to do right for such a high-ranking person as the Chairman of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Leif Östling, when he has been caught in engaging in aggressive tax planning, carelessly replied: What the hell do I get for the money? Excuse me, Madam President, but the swearing is not mine but Leif Östling. These are, of course, people who can afford to pay taxes and who must pay taxes and comply with Swedish law. If not all of us who live here know with us that everyone else is involved in paying taxes according to viability in order to maintain and develop our welfare, then the tax morality risks being lost. Why should ordinary workers pay taxes if not the financiers? If more and more people start to think like Leif Östling and the rest of the people who have been involved in these leaks, we will not be able to maintain a strong and general school, health care and care. In practice, this means that all of us need to pay more tax to cover the richest millionaires who do not pay their share. It's not fair. The Swedish tax system already works in such a way that people with a lot of money can make large tax deductions. And many taxes aimed above all at those with a lot of capital, such as the wealth tax, are abolished. Therefore, inequality in society has increased faster in Sweden than in any other analogue country. Then, of course, it is in the eyes that the same group still stands above the law and does not pay the relatively small tax that they should pay anyway according to law. It is estimated that approximately SEK 46 billion of taxes are withheld every year in Sweden, which corresponds to the annual cost of 340 000 children in preschool or 120 000 nurses. Crossing the law and democracy is a serious act that needs to be prosecuted. Tax fraudsters should not go limousine; they should pay back what they owe the community. Everyone should be equal before the law, regardless of wealth. Madam President, I would like It must be obvious that a correction of, for example, unaccounted assets, which comes to the Tax Agency after the Swedish Tax Agency has informed them that they are going to make a check on this, cannot be considered to have taken place on their own initiative. Then the person knows that a check will be made. If that had been the case, tax fraudsters could have waited forever to correct their duties. That, of course, is unreasonable. This amendment will be an incentive not to wait too long to submit the correct data. It is important that tax fraudsters do not escape less cheaply than other persons who commit similar offences. We are pleased that another of the Left Party's reforms for greater equality and cohesion and against tax evasion will become a reality.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-467	Madam President, I would like In report 21, where we have dealt with the Government's proposal for the reintroduction of tax reductions for trade union fees, the Swedish Democrats in the committee have called for the proposal to be rejected. This can be justified by safeguarding the principles of neutrality and uniformity of the tax system. It can also be justified by the fact that it is contrary to the principle of equal treatment if trade unions receive a tax advantage which does not benefit other types of associations. It can therefore be questioned whether the purpose of the bill is to improve the conditions for those who work or whether it is to benefit certain organisations at the expense of other organisations. If you want to improve the conditions for those who work, there are other measures to be taken, such as improvements in unemployment insurance. The Swedish system applied today in the field of unemployment insurance is such that those who work and pay taxes fund unemployment insurance to 90 per cent. Then each individual chooses voluntarily if you want to be part of a trade union and an unemployment fund and pays the fees associated with it. The contribution to the unemployment fund is therefore own financing but is only a minor part of the financing of the unemployment benefit fund. Thus, everyone who works and pays taxes is involved and contributes to the financing of the unemployment fund. However, some choose not to pay the fee and are therefore not entitled to a cashier. It may be because of different things. You may not think you can afford it, may not have a positive view of that particular trade union or may not be interested in sponsoring a specific political party associated with that union. This is not uncommon in LO associations, among other things. Therefore, it should be voluntary and neither benefit nor be disadvantaged by the tax system. The Swedish Democrats believe that there is a need for a proper reform and strengthening of unemployment insurance. It is so central to both the working and the labour market that it should be considered as part of the general social security systems. This means that the unemployment fund would have to be transferred to the Social Insurance Agency and that it should be fully tax-financed. Unemployment insurance should be managed centrally rather than with trade unions, and effective insurance cover should be strengthened. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed that the ceiling in the unemployment fund should be increased significantly to SEK 1,200 per day during the first 100 days, and then decreased to SEK 800 per day. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the so-called financing and other administrative charges, in addition to the unemployment rate itself, to be abolished and taken over by the state. As a result, membership of an unemployment fund would be entirely free of charge. We have put forward proposals on this. It is included in our budget, and what is associated with costs is fully financed. Madam President, I would like This afternoon, like many others, this issue will be put to the vote in this House. We have already debated the Government's proposal for the abolition of tax exemption for the benefit of health care and, as at that time, the Alliance is now choosing to lie flat, despite the fact that it is actually opposed to the proposal. Instead, both proposals could be rejected. It would be totally self-financing. If the bill, about the tax reduction for trade union fees, which we are now debriefing is rejected, we save over SEK 2 billion a year. If we also reject the medical tax, we spend barely half – 1 billion. It is therefore responsible, both politically and financially. Rejections on both of these would strengthen public finances. I am in favour of reservation 1 in this report. I would also like to appeal to those Alliance Members who have not participated in the debates to consider doing the same for both Sku 20 and 21.
i-EPnTE5VCZ3JVJPeZEMVLYc	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2. Yesterday we had a debate on the impact of the serious deficiencies in the government's budget proposal on decision-making in this House. At that time it was a question of abolishing tax exemption for the benefit of health care and increasing tax revenues of about 1 billion. Now we are having a similar debate on increased expenditure as a result of an announced draft budget that falls down as its own bill after having been prepared almost six months after the budget decision. This proposal was also presented in anecdote form in the budget proposal. It is completely contrary to the requirements of the government's review process and the parliamentary order's demands on how we should work. The Alliance also chooses to lie flat in this report, so as not to offend the government and go against its beloved December agreement. In fact, it is becoming a little bit comical to see how to swing to try to ascertain the support of the red-greens in a possible reverse situation after the next elections where the Alliance would be the largest bloc and thus form a new insecure minority government. It continues to refer to the requirements of the fiscal framework for a single decision on the budgetary framework and any legislative proposals within it. In this context, the problem for both the government and the Alliance is that it ignores the basic conditions for the preparation of legislative proposals. It is regulated in the form of government, which is one of our constitutions. There are only two ways out of this dilemma. It is either to ensure that all proposals are properly prepared when they are included in the budget proposal or simply to remove them from the budget. The latter is the only option that remains for this year. David Lång has also presented an excellent proposal to merge yesterday's proposal with this one. We would thereby strengthen public finances. That is a very good proposal. The fact that both the three government parties and the Alliance are grossly disregarding the legislation of the Swedish Parliament makes me gravely concerned about how Sweden will fare. It is an astounding disregard for citizens to deal with decision-making in this way. That is simply not the case. In its special opinion in the report, the representatives of the alliance parties write: It therefore accepts that the government should be able to poke completely unprepared proposals into our state budget. It is also worth noting that the proposal does not contain a complete account of the estimates underlying the costs of the reform. The calculation is based on the number of members of the various trade unions as of 31 December 2015 and an average monthly fee of SEK 312 (an estimate based on membership numbers and fee structure). Apart from the fact that the number of members is not reported, you have old data to support your so-called estimate. This is not serious legislation, and I can only be surprised that the Alliance accepts such a system, particularly with reference to how much its representatives have talked about the need for order and order in the budgetary process. In fact, it is important that it is just that. By accepting and passively approving the government's reprehensible actions, we must ask ourselves whether there are not only cold weather when the Alliance talks about order and order. Impact assessments are usually also a parade branch for the Alliance. In this case, the consequences of the proposal are one big guess, or, as the government expresses itself, an estimate. It is not good enough to be the basis for legislation. How can the Alliance agree to such a disorder? An important issue in the proposal is whether membership fees in an association should be deductible or not on the basis of the principle of equal treatment that we normally cherish in Swedish law, at least in the rhetorical game – and in any case when it suits the current government. In this case, an important departure from this principle is made when trade union contributions for private individuals are made deductible but the corresponding contribution for membership of an employer's organisation is not deductible for the entrepreneur. If the company is a limited liability company, the difference from the right of deduction of individuals is limited to the tax on the fee itself. If, on the other hand, the company is a trading company or an individual firm, the entrepreneur is also forced to pay own contributions on the whole membership fee. I would like an explanation from the red-green parties. What considerations are the basis for the fact that, according to them, the consequences should be so distinct depending on who or who is a member of an association of interests in the labour market? This has not been stated either in the report or in the government proposal. It is true that the bill refers to employers' organisations charging service charges, which are deductible, for some of the services provided. In this context, however, the membership fee itself, which is not deductible to the entrepreneur and which is often not entirely insignificant. In this context, we are also discussing only what is membership fees, not service fees. In our reservation, we from Alternatives for Sweden have called for a rejection of the proposal. We also believe that the government should be announced that strict equal treatment should be promoted with regard to the tax rules for membership contributions to the social partners, regardless of who are the paying members. The fact that laws apply equally to all must be more important than that small minorities should be able to maintain their position of power. The government must therefore be given a sharp back-leaf lesson in its way of fabricating unfair legislative proposals. This can only happen if the alliance parties stop commemorating the December agreement and its undemocratic consequences. I hope we will see an indication of this this afternoon.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-494	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Taxation 21 Reintroduction of tax reductions for trade union contributions. I can say, finally! I am already in favour of the proposal contained in the report. Madam President, I would like Why are there unions? Is there a need for trade unions? Can't the employees and the boss just get along? There is a fundamental contradiction between labour and capital, but also a contradiction between employers and employees, regardless of the type of activity. Trade unions are needed both in the state and municipalities, as well as co-operation and peoples' movements. A trade union organisation represents the members collectively and is important for defining common requirements and frameworks in the employment relationship. The individual can very rarely in a good way assert himself alone against the employer. We are talking about isolated cases where the employee has special and unique knowledge of the work process and cannot be replaced. An important part of the emergence of industrialism was precisely that workers, unlike craftsmen and civil servants, became easy to replace and lost their control – and thus their power – over the labour process. In our modern society, officials and academics have also been proletariatd and therefore recognised the importance of organising themselves trade unionally. To deliberately try to weaken and break down trade unions is to reduce the opportunities for workers, officials and academics to assert their interests. Trade union organisations are still extremely important and the only way employees can improve their financial and other working conditions for all. Trade unions also play an important role as peoples' movements and part of what is commonly referred to as civil society. Free trade unions are both a base for and a school in democracy. In dictatorships, trade unions are fought as eagerly as opposition parties. Trade unions can play an important role in the fall of dictatorships – see, for example, Poland, where workers' protests in various rounds slowly worn down the dictatorship and where the trade union movement Solidarity was finally involved in creating the new, democratic Poland. Few countries outside the Nordic region have as strong a trade union movement as the Swedish one. It has been good for Sweden. It is good if the trade unions and employers' organisations manage wage formation and a lot of other things without political parties interfering. Political parties should not engage in wages or dribble into new forms of employment – let the parties handle this! Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2002, a tax reduction on trade union contributions was introduced. This introduction was justified by the importance of the social function of workers' organisations and the desire to achieve equal tax treatment of members' contributions to an employee's and employer's organisation. The criticism of the system of rules at the time had mainly concerned the transfer of these parts of their activities by the employer to service companies which had been specifically established and thus made it possible to deduct service charges as operating costs in the business carried out. It was therefore considered, among other reasons, that a tax subsidy should be introduced for the contributions paid by members to their employees' organisations. The tax reduction on trade union contributions was abolished on 1 January 2007 by the newly appointed government of Reinfeldt. Similarly, the reduction for unemployment funds was abolished, while at the same time imposing a shock increase in the contributions to the unemployment fund. It was a bad policy that only led to increased insecurity. Many of those who left the trade unions and the unemployment fund had to regret this bitterly when the financial crisis came. Membership of a trade union and unemployment fund is an insurance policy and a protection that it is only stupid to get rid of. On 1 July 2018, we will reintroduce a tax reduction for trade union fees in order to safeguard the Swedish model in the labour market. This means a tax reduction of 25 per cent of the total fee paid by a member during the year to a Swedish or equivalent foreign employee organisation, provided that the total fee during the year is at least SEK 400. I am absolutely convinced that during the next parliamentary term we also need to look at a tax reduction for the unemployment fund. I also think that the bourgeois parties should reconsider the question of trade union fees and unemployment funds. As it has been, you have always been attached to the LO and the LO associations' links to the Social Democracy. Consider that we have both TCO and Saco, who are not linked to the Social Democracy and who, in terms of trade union fees and unemployment funds, have the same opinion as LO. In fact, you have more voters who are civil servants and academics than are entrepreneurs. Listen to them and what they say about the importance of union organization and strong a-cassage as conversion insurance. However, I am pleased that the bourgeois parties have contented themselves with a special statement. The Swedish democrats want to nationalise the autonomous unemployment funds today and let Försäkringskassan decide on the unemployment benefit. Right now, the Social Insurance Agency may not feel like the safest port to add to. SD is also not aware that a-cassors are independent of trade unions. It is noticeable that SD has been to dinner at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and received written thoughts from employers. This is clear. Madam President, I would like Strong trade unions are good for Sweden and for the Swedish model. Together, let us protect LO, TCO and Saco from Parliament. Let us ensure that the main trade union organisations, together with employers, continue to be given a great deal of scope to resolve the various labour market issues and issues relating to working conditions by common accord. They have managed to do so successfully since the Saltsjöbad agreement in 1938, i.e. for 80 years. The Swedish model can certainly be developed in many ways, but the foundation is sound and very alive. Not least, therefore, the right to deduct trade union contributions is a good proposal.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-511	Madam President, I would like If I boil down the content of the report and the bill and look at what it really is about, I will conclude that it is about creating fair and equal tax rules or, more accurately, that the government wants to reduce the fairness of tax legislation. We believe that everyone should be equal before the law. With this proposal, the similarity before the law will decrease depending on the group we belong to in the labour market. My question to Jamal El-Haj-Haj is: why do the Social Democrats not think that we should all be equal before the law? And why do the Social Democrats want to increase tax inequalities?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-514	Madam President, I would like I have always appreciated that Olle Felten is knowledgeable in tax matters. Now I do not know whether I am debating against a Swedish democrat or against whom I am debating, but I will try to answer the questions. We are creating justice today. Let it be that you are a Swedish Democrat or what you are, but you have always been anti-employee right-wing parties. You have always wanted to impair the working class, and we see the result today. You want to push the bourgeois to vote for your proposals, which are anti-employees. If you happen to be a Swedish Democrat or if you belong to any other party, I really don't know. But I know that the Swedish Democrats have deteriorated for the working class, and you want to continue to worsen. You are an anti-employee right-wing party, end of story.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-517	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Jamal-El-Haj for the non-answer, because it was certainly not about answering the question I asked, but about trying to escape into some kind of completely de facto comment. The question hangs in the air: Why do the Social Democrats think that there should be different tax rules depending on which group they belong to on the labour market? I also have a question about the principled handling of the proposal. The Budget Bill describes this proposal in its entirety in an 108-word summary text. Is it enough, according to the Social Democrats, to consider the proposal to be part of the budget? If the answer is yes to the question, can all the tax proposals in a budget proposal on the state budget be equally summarised? If the answer is yes to question two, why, in your opinion, do we have a review requirement inscribed in the Constitution? Does that mean anything to the government parties that the Constitution requires legislative proposals to be prepared in a certain way to be adopted? If so, what does that mean? If the answer to question two is no, why are you putting forward tax proposals which are so poorly prepared in the budget?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-519	Madam President, I would like The proposal in the budget is not ill prepared. It has been prepared in exactly the same way as any other proposal. I cannot argue that I am an expert on how to write proposals, but I am very pleased with the proposal that has been put forward. It's very clear. Again: If you think I have not answered your question, I do not know if I have answered your question. We are based on issues of justice. Companies have the right to deduct their fees. We want workers to have the same right to deduct their contributions. I come from a company where as much as 97.5 per cent are union members. Maybe there could be 1 or 2 percent not connected. You mean we do different things here, but we don't. It's about the basic ideology itself. If you want workers to be able to pursue their pay and health and safety issues, we need to strengthen trade unions. If you don't want to do that, it's up to you, but I want us to strengthen the trade unions.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-524	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country. But there are problems that need to be solved so that they do not have serious consequences for individuals and society at large. Therefore, the Moderates go to elections with concrete solutions and proposals for reforms close to people's reality, which show that we are ready to take responsibility for the economy, strengthen the work line with job and integration reforms, restore law and order and safeguard the core business of welfare. Sweden should be a country of hope, a country characterised by entrepreneurship, equality and social mobility, and where you can take you almost as far as you want, but also with the help of others. Sweden should be a country with freedom to choose its life and with all the diversity that that freedom creates. In Sweden we should not have us and them. Here, freedom, laws and the work line apply to everyone without regard to class, clan or gender, no exceptions, no one outside, no one forgotten. Rights, obligations and opportunities shall be equal for all. Madam President, I would like The proposal we are debating today is a departure from the principle of equality for all. Instead of a tax reduction based on an individual's membership of an association, we believe that the tax on labour should be reduced generally. A tax advantage that does not benefit everyone is, in our opinion, contrary to the principle of equal treatment. For this reason, we have said no to this proposal in our budget motion. In the bill we can read that a person who pays SEK 200 in trade union fees per month will maintain a tax reduction of SEK 50 per month. At the same time as the government gives this 50th of a month to some, the tax has been increased by SEK 60 billion during the term of office, of which SEK 40 billion on jobs and entrepreneurship. As a result of tax increases on labour, savings, ROT services, aviation, fuel and electricity, a family with children with not too high incomes has received tax increases of up to SEK 1 000 a month, and then they give back a fifty to some. Our proposal for a new job tax deduction with reinforcement for those with the lowest income means 500 SEK in reduced tax per month for the vast majority who work full-time. This is the biggest tax cut on labour since 2007. These 500 extra crowns in your wallet can each decide how to spend. If you choose to pay for a trade union fee, you still have more money left in your wallet with the Moderates' proposal than with the government's proposal. Madam President, I would like This proposal affects central government income and is part of the income statement decided by the Riksdag in autumn 2017. The statement of revenue is set out in the entirety of the budgetary decision. The purpose of the separate proposal is therefore to implement the legislation resulting from that budgetary decision. If the Riksdag amends parts of the budget decision afterwards, it may have far-reaching consequences for the Swedish economy and the political system. Depending on the outcome of votes on such broken-out parts, Parliament would risk weakening the state budget. As our budget motion has been rejected, we will today refrain from taking part in the decision on this particular proposal.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-533	Madam President, I would like I have some questions for you, Jörgen Warborn. I can start with this: why do you want entrepreneurs and employers to be allowed to deduct their contributions – but not the workers? You've been trying to explain a little bit, but I want you to be clearer. We have discussed trade unions and how important it is for trade unions to be strong. You want to reduce LAS and labour law. You've said it several times. You want to remove the principle of last-in only in the event of dismissal, which would mean creating probationary employment for a lifetime. Trade union organisations will not be able to negotiate, making it more difficult to justify union membership. The risk is that the Swedish model edges because the trade unions no longer have sufficient strength to be a free and equal counterpart to employers. Removing or weakening LAS impairs security. It is an extreme proposal and a departure from the broad consensus that exists with regard to labour law. The Employment Protection Act is a basic security in the labour market. In fact, without the Employment Protection Act, a large number of older workers are at risk of being excluded from the labour market. Why do you want to do this?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-536	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Jamal El-Haj-Haj! They give me the opportunity to also ask you questions. I will conclude this brief speech by asking whether the Social Democrats will continue to stand up for the budgetary process in the future. That question was put to the Social Democrats yesterday, from this speaker's seat, but it did not receive an answer. Now you have the opportunity to give a clear answer on behalf of the Social Democrats, Jamal El-Haj-Haj. I will answer your questions, and I hope you will answer mine. What Jamal El-Haj-Haj brings up is a wallet issue – for some. The bill strengthens certain groups. We believe that this is a wrong way; we want to strengthen everyone who works. That's why we go forward with another job tax deduction, which gives 500 SEK extra a month to almost everyone who works full-time. This proposal, as I said in my speech, gives about 50 kroner a month. The fact that the LAS issue comes into a tax debate like this is a bit strange, may I say, but I think that Jamal El-Haj-Haj may have looked a little too much at LO's films. This may make you interested in a discussion and dialogue on this, but if you are going to do so, I think you should read our proposals instead of basing your reality picture on what LO says. We will not degrade LAS, but we have a change that we want to investigate and look at. That's a completely different thing. Now back to the question: will the Social Democrats stand up for the budgetary process? We didn't get an answer last night. Are we getting answers today?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-541	Madam President, I would like It is fantastic rhetoric that I who ask questions to Jörgen Warborn will answer his questions to me. That's great. I remember clearly how you said you wanted to do when you took power in 2006, Jörgen Warborn, and you did just that. You weakened the trade union movement and forced over 400 000 people to leave the trade unions and the unemployment fund. When the crisis came in 2008 – 2009, these people became more or less recipients of social assistance, and then the municipalities had to take over. There are many who claim that you are actually an anti-wage party, Jörgen Warborn. So have you. I do not have much time to do so, but I would still like to ask: is it not your party that has voted against accident insurance, no to eight hours' workday, no to female suffrage, no to eight hours' workday– again– and no to the abolition of the death penalty in Sve Rige? You have voted against a ‐ cash, no to increased national pensions, no to two weeks' holiday, no to reduced voting age, no to free school meals, no to general health insurance, no to general child benefit, no to three weeks' holiday, no to free health care, no to ATP, no to four weeks' holiday and no to five weeks' holiday. Is it not your party that has deteriorated for workers throughout history? As long as you have existed, you have only deteriorated for the working class. You really are an anti-wage right-wing party. You want me to answer questions that are not relevant in this particular debate, Jörgen Warborn. I mention how you want to weaken the labour movement and degrade LAS, and you say you do not want to degrade LAS. But your fellow party members have repeatedly expressed their views on the way in which they want to degrade LAS. That's what I stand for.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-545	Madam President, I would like When requesting a reply, be prepared to answer questions as well. If I get questions from Jamal El-Haj-Haj, I think I should answer them to the best of my ability, but I also think that one has a responsibility to answer on the part of the Social Democrats. We have asked the question two days in a row, which has given the Social Democrats the opportunity to perhaps talk together and think about whether they will respond to it the next day, but they have consistently avoided answering the question of whether they are in line with the rules of the budgetary process. That's remarkable. I don't understand it, and I'm deeply concerned. In 2013, the Social Democrats stepped foot in this Chamber, together with the Swedish Democrats. I wonder if we will see it repeated in the future. I thought we agreed that we would ensure that we secure the Swedish economy and the processes here in Parliament, but there is no response from the Social Democrats. That's remarkable. Jamal El-Haj-Haj calls us anti-wages, and that is strange given that we want to reduce taxes on employees in a way that leaves them with much more money in their wallets. We increase the job tax deduction by SEK 500 for an average family, aimed at those with the lowest incomes. We want 100 000 fewer people to pay government income tax. Nearly half of all intensive care nurses pay government income tax today, and nearly one in five high school teachers. We need to change that. We are not anti-wagers, but we are concerned about the Social Democrats and the budgetary process.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-548	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The Swedish model that the social partners make up for conditions on the labour market is a very good model. It is also positive that there has been such a broad consensus on this. Sweden stands out internationally in many ways. We have few strike days, and historically we have done very well in terms of paradigm shifts and restructuring. The policy goes in from time to time and plays an active role, but responsibility for wage formation and other conditions lies largely with the parties. That's very good. This model also presupposes that the parties are strong, that they represent those who work and those who employ. A high degree of connectivity is a prerequisite for the long-term legitimacy of the model. Trade unions in Sweden currently have around 3 million members. They can now look forward to getting a tax reduction on the fee, different depending on the amount of the fee. As the rate of accession is so high in Sweden, it is not far from calling this a general tax reduction, even if it is not the same. The question is whether we would have had an even greater consensus if there had been another name in the report and were called a somewhat more similar job tax deduction. The Moderates argue that a general tax reduction would be preferable and refer to the special opinion they have with the other alliance parties. When you read the different budgets, there is quite a difference between how the various alliance parties prioritise the tax cuts proposed. It is quite right that the Moderates give priority to more job tax deductions. Liberals have a completely different priority. It invests 23 billion – it corresponds to almost all of the Political Authority's organisation – on tax cuts for high income earners. There are very different profiles between the different alliance parties. Madam President, I would like It was a long time ago that we had a more fundamental discussion about trade unionists in Sweden. It is now 100 years ago that the breakthrough of democracy came in Sweden. It was, of course, a process that was not self-evident from day one, but that of democracy became progressively stronger. The role of the trade union movement was not self-evident either. Elsewhere in Europe it was even threatened, but as an actor it was able to contribute to the strength of democracy. The fact that there has been a consensus on the Swedish model – the Saltsjöbad agreement in 1938 – also contributed to the stability of the country. The Social Democrats, not least, could keep the outer left, which in the 1910s and 1920s could be a threat, away. Then the Right Party, which then became the Moderates, kept right-wing extremism away. This gave us a robust democracy in our country, which we are all very happy about. Although we may disagree and have different views on tax reductions and levels, there is still a huge difference compared to what it could have been like when discussing whether one could freely join member organisations. It feels very good that we have come to that. All of us democrats are also responsible in the future for the fact that this development is not self-evident; it is something that we must continue to work for all the time. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-561	Madam President, I would like Of all the eighty reforms that the Left Party has been pushing through in budgetary negotiations with the government, what we are now going to debate, that is to say the reintroduction of tax reductions on trade union fees, is probably among those that we as a party and certainly I personally hold among the top. This is political reform at its best. It is a direct change in the right direction – in this case, an individual income boost for all those who have taken or take the step of joining their trade union jointly and severally, which is evident mainly in the wallet of those who have low income and relatively high union fees. But at the same time it also means something more, namely a strategically important shift in power relations on the Swedish labour market. It is a small but not insignificant extra push to increase the degree of connection to the compartment. It is a contribution to strengthening the employee collective in its entirety and thus also the Swedish model with its combination of flexibility and security. Such shifts, Madam President, are really needed. For a long time there have been numerous decisions that have gone in the opposite direction, which have undermined rather than strengthened the Swedish model and which have strengthened the party that is already the strongest in the starting point, namely employers and capital owners. After all, the Swedish model requires well-organised social partners who can take responsibility for regulating most of what needs to be regulated. The state sets the framework and, through the legislation, leaves the parties very much room to decide on the concrete design of the conditions for those who work. This means that workers' organisations, trade unions, have a designated and distinctive role and position. As pointed out in the proposal, membership of the organisations which, in accordance with the MBL, the co-determination law, fulfil a role as labour market workers' organisations is at stake for this reform. The argument from the right that this would run counter to some kind of principle of equal treatment for civil society organisations therefore falls, in my opinion, rather flat. Under the legislation, trade unions have a very special role to play. Then, of course, there are also reservations from the different nuances or factions of the Swedish Democrats that this will be unfair to employers in some way. It's kind of oblivious and a little ridiculous. Employers, as has already been pointed out, have the possibility to deduct the part of the contribution to employers' organisations relating to labour disputes and also to other services. It is rather unbalanced not to have this deduction for the union fee. The labour market situation is fundamentally unbalanced from the outset. It is the workers who are individually dependent. What makes that playing field a little less inclined to the employer's advantage are collective agreements, and they are signed precisely by trade unions. Madam President, I would like This is a deduction that has existed before and which was removed by the previous right-wing government. In the report we can read that the tax reduction on trade union contributions was abolished on 1 January 2007 for financing reasons. That is a very brief description which is certainly not wrong. It is true that the Reinfeldt government has already decided in its first budget to make this withdrawal so that, together with a series of other cuts, particularly on the living conditions of the sick and unemployed, it can finance substantial tax cuts mainly aimed at the most deprived people in society. But although the justification for the measures at the time was about financial savings, the design was of course strategically thought out. The decision to abolish the right to deduct the trade union tax was part of a long series of deteriorations with the cape directed towards trade union organisation. Here were the extreme and shocking deteriorations in unemployment insurance that led to many leaving both the unemployment fund and the union. This also applies to the gradual erosion of health insurance and the introduction of a so-called pre-stock which also put pressure on many trade unions with desperate members. This was where the distancing of trade unions from influence over various forms of subsidised employment and when they could be created. Here were the rules for labour immigration that contributed to wage dumping in vulnerable sectors and to powerlessness in the trade union ranks. This is also to count the so-called lex Laval, which was a limitation of the fundamental right of conflict in connection with posting situations. It is in this context that we must see the abolition by the previous government of the trade union tax rebate. And it is in contrast to what is to be seen the proposal which is now on the table of the Riksdag and which was thus announced through the state budget agreed by the Left Party and the Government last autumn. Madam President, I would like The degree of union organisation is of broad and profound importance in a modern welfare society. Both international and Swedish experiences and data show a clear correlation between a high degree of union membership and several other social relationships, not least less of inequality in the distribution of income and wealth. And that is precisely where you need to look for the reason for the right-wing parties' position. That is where you need to seek the political instinct that makes them go against this targeted tax reduction. It risks making society a little more equal. The former government parties – the increasingly anti-employee Alliance – have now chosen to lean against the Budget Act and not to opt against the proposal, as it has been through the budget bill. That is a good thing in this case, although the position itself is remarkable. I note that the Swedish democrats and from there run free-riders let their ideological background in right-wing populism and neo-fascism – currents where antipathy against organised workers has a central role – shine through more unhindered in their positions. One can speak out for ideologically offensive employers' organisations. In any case, it is good that we can get this in place so that the union fee will be deductible by 25% from 1 July this year. I support the proposal and reject the reservations.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-581	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we stood here in this House discussing preferential taxation of health insurance. Today we are debating tax reductions for the union fee. This is a proposal against which we in the Christian Democrats are opposed. When I was thinking about how we got into debating these very issues, I got a picture in my head. I was going to share it with you. The day is August 24, 2017, and the government gathers at Harpsund to map out the future budget for Sweden. All ministers and a lot of officials are gathered to start the important work on the 2018 budget and beyond. They work methodically through the situation in Sweden and try to balance where Sweden needs to make efforts. One balances where the Swedish government needs to make real reforms to get the country back on track in the parts that the government sees has gone in the wrong direction. There are all sorts of statistics available. There is all the time in the world to discuss this. One can argue with each other and make a list of priorities for the most important reforms for Sweden in the future. What measures does the Swedish Government come up with are most important in the last budget that can be presented during this term of office? Yes, it is.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-588	What reforms did they choose not to prioritise? You have to opt out of something. They chose not to include a collection of the pensioner's tax. a choice was made not to include reforms to reduce healthcare queues. 中 It chose not to include reforms in order to increase accessibility in health care. I argue that politics is a priority. We Christian Democrats had made a different priority. We had given priority to real reforms to counter the queues of care, which have doubled during the term of office of this government. We had prioritised increasing access to healthcare, which has deteriorated drastically during the term of office that this government has been in power. We had strengthened security through more police officers and stronger border controls. The promise to the cancer patients had been fulfilled. And we had abolished the pensioner's tax, which the government so eagerly wants to retain. Today we are debating another part that was in the budget, but which the government failed to deliver within a reasonable time. This is another proposal that we in the Christian Democrats think is the wrong way to go. The promotion of a member association through tax reduction is contrary to the principle of equal treatment with other associations. It is incomprehensible to me that the state chooses to make this effort instead of fulfilling the promise to remove pensioner's tax. Real reforms could also have been made to deal with the longer-term care queues or to do something about access to services that are deteriorating. Tax reduction on trade union contributions was abolished on 1 January 2007. Instead, the tax rate was generally reduced for all those who work, most proportionally for those with the lowest income. But the government's proposal is not a restorer, but a tax reduction for those who choose membership of a particular association. During the term of office, taxes have been increased by 60 billion. The drop you could take was this. The Christian Democrats say no to the proposal. It is an initiative that does not solve any of the problems that Sweden faces, even though the government had several days at Harpsund when one could have thought about and thought through this. Moreover, the decision we make today is a lost part for the workers. You have to pay a higher fee for health care costs and a lower cost for trade union fees. The total amount of space is losing the Swedish worker today. The proposal to reduce the tax burden on trade union contributions means reduced tax revenues of 1.34 billion in 2018 and 2.67 billion in 2019. It is money that could have been used to strengthen welfare rather than be symbolic politics.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-599	Madam President, I would like I have three fairly brief questions for Larry Söder in the Christian Democrats. The first relates to his outrage that one favors a certain type of association. Can he reply to which associations other than trade unions are responsible for signing collective agreements on the labour market? I don't know any of them. The second issue concerns the pensioner's tax. Larry Söder seems to think there's a problem with the pensioner tax. I wonder how he views the fact that the Christian Democrats introduced this tax. How does he experience that situation now in his agitation? The third question concerns what Larry Söder raised when he said that the tax cut of just over SEK 2 billion is a symbolic act. One might think that it is a fairly large symbolic sum. He said it doesn't concern the real problems in society. I myself may think that a major and real problem in society is a growing inequality. It is, of course, an effect of much of the policy implemented by the previous government, but it has been a problem in Sweden for a long time. Many international evaluators also point this out, not least left-wing radical organisations such as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD. Does Larry Söder agree with them that the increase in inequality can pose a social problem? If so, what does he want to do about it, in addition to the proposals that we have heard in the past and which increase inequality? These include tax reductions.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-605	Madam President, I would like Of course, both parts of the social partners are important. They should of course be as strong as possible in order to in some way be equal and be able to conclude agreements that are good for Sweden. I do not think that either Ali Esbati or I have any different views on this. However, we may have different views on how to strengthen these two parties. I think, for example, that the Swedish Parliament should as much as possible stay away from the labour market parts in order to let the parties decide this. We are very tricky in the Swedish Parliament. We try to impose various things and talk about how one and the other should be. However, I do not believe that a tax reduction on trade union fees will in any way strengthen these parties. I believe that the trade unions have a strong position and can continue to do so in the future. If they treat their members to the best of their ability, I also believe that many people will be associated with trade unions. I do not believe that such a symbolic act, as I say it is, will do neither from nor to. As far as the pensioner's tax is concerned, we reduced the tax on pensioners five times in the year of the alliance government. Those who formed the current government had as the electoral slogan to remove the pensioner tax. I have seen only one party that has fulfilled that promise, and it is the Christian Democrats, who in their budget for two years in a row have completely removed the pensioner's tax. I cannot see that the government that is sitting today would have fulfilled that promise. That's why I'm chasing them when it comes to it. I think it is a betrayal of 2 million people who are pensioners that they are not fulfilling that promise. It was probably some question I forgot, but Ali Esbati will be happy to repeat it.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-610	Madam President, I would like My last question was about inequality, which – possibly symbolically – fell away. But I thank you for the answers to the first two questions, even if they open up some new thoughts. The first question was whether there are other types of organisations which have the role of the social partners, in this case the trade unions. It does not, and that is why there is a particular concern in strengthening the possibility of being in them. I noted in the reply that Larry Söder felt that the Riksdag should be careful to interfere in the functioning and details of the labour market. This is interesting but somewhat surprising, given some recently very loud voices from the alliance Larry Söder is keen to belong to. They even claim to be willing to legislate on wage setting, which in Sweden has for a long time definitely been only the role of the social partners to deal with. It is good that the Christian Democrats reject this kind of policy and that we have been able to make it clear. But it has been clear from other parties in the Alliance that legislation is being used to reduce wages. The second question concerned the pensioner's tax. I would just like to say a few things, so that everyone is in on what we are discussing. We can discuss whether taxes should be lower or higher in order to finance common welfare, but what we refer to as pensioner's tax is the unfair fact that pensioners have to tax more for their income compared to the corresponding wage earners who receive the same income. After all, it was your government that carried out this. This government, together with the Left Party, is trying to phase out pensioner tax.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-614	Madam President, I would like I think that the greatest inequality in Sweden prevails between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. We agree that it is possible to find different solutions to get people to work. One way could be to create simple jobs. You get a slightly lower salary to be able to come in and get your first job and an experience to take on your CV. It allows you to move on and take another job. It is clear that, as an alliance, we see that this is an opportunity to create more jobs. I think you can reduce inequality in Sweden if you create more jobs, because the biggest difference and inequality exists today between those who do not have jobs and those who have jobs. I note that you in the Left Party are not interested in removing pensioner tax at all. You've been the mainstay of this government for four years. I have nowhere, not in any television interview, heard you say that you will not support this government's budget unless it removes the pensioner's tax. I have not seen such a headline. If it exists, please show it to me! This means that the Left Party has accepted the current situation, i.e. that pensioners pay more tax than employees do. The only party in its budget that has removed this is ours. We do this even if it costs money – SEK 12 billion. But the Left Party has not pushed this forward in the government negotiations. You have not put it at your head that you want to remove the pensioner's tax, but you have accepted the petty-step policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. This government really doesn't care what was said to the voters in 2014. I do not remember what the Left Party said before the election when it came to pensioner tax. I'm afraid to say. But you haven't actually pushed to remove the pensioner's tax. You have accepted the budget that exists, and there is no removal of the pensioner's tax. It's a fact. Everyone can read that in the budget available.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-617	Madam President, I would like Larry South! I wasn't going to take a line on you, but when you were up in the speaker's chair, in your speech, you raised things that really have nothing to do with what we're discussing. We must be allowed to defend our policy. You mentioned the pensioner's tax. I would like to bring this up again with you, even if my comrades have done so before. You bourgeois took power in 2006 and reduced taxes on wage earners five times. But you didn't reduce the pensioner's tax. You pressed the button once, twice, three times, four times, five times. During this time you could not imagine doing anything for pensioners. The poor pensioners have suffered under the policies that you pursued for eight years. In 2014 we came to power. We have put forward a budget to reduce the tax on pensioners who earn up to SEK 10 000. But you voted down this budget and delayed the tax cut for pensioners by a full year. Then how can you go up and say what you said in your speech? Now we have promised our pensioners that we will remove the difference. We have an ideology that is really about respect. We have made a handshake between employees and pensioners. You pay taxes when you work. When you retire, you have to pay just as much tax as when you were working. We have respected this handshake between generations. But you did not respect this handshake, which has been around for years. You took away the handshake, deteriorated the pensioners and made them poor. Can you answer that?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-621	Madam President, I would like Then I will have to repeat what I said in all the debates we have had on pensioner tax. Before the 2014 elections, your party leader, who is today Prime Minister, said that the pensioner's tax would be removed. Two million pensioners were promised this. Has the promise been fulfilled? I would like to put that question to the Social Democrats. I can't see it would have come true. However, the Christian Democrats have fulfilled that promise by putting it in their budget. 12 billion costs it. We'll remove the pensioner's tax right away. It is clear that we are not voting for a budget which means that pensioner tax will remain if we have a better proposal. My picture, which I was trying to give, is that you are prioritising other things instead of meeting your promise to 2 million pensioners. As I said in my speech, you would rather have preferential taxation on health insurance, tax reduction on trade union fees, investment in electric motors for boats, investment in electric bicycles, lower costs for nature guides and summer bus cards for high school students. You have prioritised this before removing pensioner's tax. That is my criticism, and the criticism should come from the 2 million pensioners for whom you said before the elections that you would remove the pensioner's tax. As a letter in the post office, you are now talking in this election campaign about removing the pensioner's tax next term of office. Who can trust that? I also want the Social Democrats to respond to this. How can voters trust it in 2018, when you promised the same thing in 2014? You're the one in power. We heard the Left Party screwing themselves; they do not want to stand for this. It is the Green Party and the Social Democrats who have made sure that the pensioner's tax remains. How can you go to the voters and tell them that you are making that promise one more time?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-626	Madam President, I would like This is really hopeless, South. Time and again, we've explained this to you. Of course you can write as much as you like in your budgets. You can write that you want to travel to Mediterranean countries once a month for pensioners. But can you do it? No, you can't. Now the Moderates say they want to cut the tax further if they win the election. What about the pensioner's tax? Will you go in the front and choose to lower it? I don't think so. You mention the things that the Social Democrats, or the government, have chosen to do. We make sure that the whole community grows. At the same time, however, we are ensuring that unemployment is reduced. There are 250 000 fewer in unemployment in these three and a half years. The school results have turned upwards. The pensioner's tax will be reduced by 2020 and will be gone. We promise it'll be gone. It is about increased child benefit, investment in welfare and more police, that school and health care should employ staff and big steps for the climate and the environment. All those questions go hand in hand. That's why we have a society that's growing. When we rule, companies profit. When you rule, they go bankrupt. There's a difference between when we rule and when you rule. I have here a list of your budgets. You caught up with us. Soon afterwards, we saw your budget crumbling six years in a row. When we took over power in Sweden, we see that we have a surplus. It is a surplus that allows us to reduce taxes for pensioners, increase child benefits for small children and so on, so that the whole of Sweden is growing and well.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-631	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have a good point in some. It is clear that we Christian Democrats will not get 51% in the elections so that we can implement all our policies. Nor are we talking about the fact that we believe we will receive the prime minister's post. We are very happy in an alliance government if the Moderates take it. The difference between the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats is that the Social Democrats aspire to have the prime minister's office and be the leading party in the government and be able to honour the promises you make. Even though you are in a position to honour the promises you make, you are breaking the promise to 2 million pensioners. I can't quite understand how you can try to dribble it away. Actually, that's the truth that exists. We can produce quite a few newspaper articles before the 2014 elections where the Social Democrats say: If we win the 2014 elections, we will remove the pensioner's tax. It is now 2018, and you have still not removed the pensioner's tax. There is one party that has implemented this in its budget. It may be that we do not have 51% in Parliament today so that we can carry it out. But we do, and our budget is serious. It goes with plus and minus. The Social Democrats have given a different priority. I do not think you need to be ashamed of the fact that you have given a different priority. Just tell the voters: we have given a different priority. But then you should not go back to the voters and say: we will carry it out in the next parliamentary term. It doesn't make sense. I'm buying the idea that you've given a different priority. I hope that in the next debate you have considered it and can reply: Yes, we have given a different priority. This is an answer that Swedish pensioners can see is true.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-637	Madam President, I would like The Government has put a proposal on the Riksdag table for legal assistants. It is important in our democratic society that the victim of a crime or the victim of a crime receives the support of society, not least in the context of a trial. It is about legal certainty but also about support for the victim. We see that the costs of public counsel and plaintiffs are increasing dramatically. We have more and more large and complex goals, which also makes it important that the effort and support be good on the part of society. In essence, we welcome the proposals put forward by the government to make a number of stricter requirements as to who can be appointed as plaintiffs. There is an increase in the legal competence requirements. It raises the issue of suitability. For example, if it is a newly graduated lawyer, he or she should not be directly involved in a heavy sexual crime case. A person may also have good expertise but may be unfit as a person. There is information in the media that people are sometimes even recruited as plaintiffs who have committed crimes. From this point of view, we welcome the changes that simply make higher demands. What the Liberals lack, and which is the reason for the reservation that we have in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and which I support, is that we believe that the victim should also be given the opportunity to choose a plaintiff with documented competence in matters of honour crimes and honour-related repression. We know in general, and we have debated this a number of times, that few reported crimes of honour are being prosecuted. There are generally major shortcomings in the competence of the judiciary in the area of honour violence and repression. When I read through the bill, i.e. the government bill, the problem is not mentioned honour crimes or honor-related oppression at all. On the other hand, they comment on cases where children are involved in preliminary investigations and are subject to crime. They comment on very extensive sexual crimes and the whole problem. What has been an important part of the bill is to raise sexual crimes, human trafficking and violence against women. We from the Liberals believe that the honour-related repression and violence is by far the biggest gender equality problem in Sweden. That is why it requires special extraordinary efforts. It is not that we have enough on our feet. I recently mentioned the lack of skills. Therefore, we have chosen to mark with our own exercise. When it comes to the plaintiff's assistant, you should also be able to appoint someone with documented competence in honour crimes and honour-related repression. The majority of the committee says in its reply that it may be considered that the Government's proposal covers what the Liberals are asking for. We do not share that view. If it is the case that the bill covers our motion request, we would like you to tell us and inform us about it. If it now states in the report, as it does, that we should be considered to have been satisfied mainly by the explanatory statement, I wonder why the motion was not approved in that case. It is rejected by the Social Democrats in the Committee on Justice.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-647	Madam President, I would like The report we are dealing with today, More appropriate provisions on legal representation, contains a number of different proposals. Some of the proposals that are particularly important concern plaintiffs. The plaintiff is the lawyer who supports the victim. One can say a little simply that in a legal process after a crime has been committed and there is a victim, you have the prosecutor representing the state, the public defender defending the person accused of the crime and then a plaintiff who supports the victim. The fact that we have plaintiffs has proved to be of great importance to the security and ability of the victim to participate in the trial and to it. But that also applies to how many are convicted of crime. When I was in the Sexual Crime Investigation, we found that a previous appointment of good plaintiffs is one of the factors that can affect the resolution of rape crimes most. In the proposal discussed in the report, the government proposes changes to improve the quality of plaintiffs. What is proposed is for a plaintiff to be either a lawyer, an assistant lawyer at a law firm or any other person who has completed the proficiency tests necessary for jurisdiction to a judicial position. And then, Madam President, there is something that is very important: only those who, because of their knowledge and experience and otherwise, are particularly suitable for the task may be appointed. It is above all the last, which is that, because of knowledge and experience and otherwise, it is particularly appropriate, which I believe is of the greatest importance for both victims of, for example, relationship violence and victims of rape. There, a particular personal fitness may be important. It's not just about being admitted to law school. In fact, this is what I mean also covers what Roger Haddad of the Liberals talks about when he highlights the need for special competence in honour crimes. Madam President, I would like Of course, one might wish to highlight various issues that are particularly important, but in the text itself it is more appropriate, in my opinion, to have a general wording that can cover all types of cases where specific skills are required. It is against this background that I do not think we should have specific wordings for different types of crime. Rather, we should clearly point out in the legislative text that it is not enough that it is a lawyer, but it must be a lawyer with special qualifications. In addition, the lawyer shall have the knowledge and experience and the specific competence that may be required in the individual case. This applies whether the case involves an honorary crime, a rape or another crime. Madam President, I would like Against this background, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-656	Madam President, I would like No one has been able to miss the big IT scandal that happened at the Swedish Transport Agency. Ministers have resigned, the gd has been sentenced to pay damages and no one takes any longer with ease how vulnerable a country is when it comes to cyber issues, information management and national security. The Swedish authorities handle large amounts of information on a daily basis. Much of what is created and stored is both important and sensitive. Certain tasks are classified as worthy of protection, and some also concern national security. If the information is lost, stolen, manipulated or disseminated to unauthorised persons, it can have serious consequences. Both individuals and social structures require large amounts of information for everyday life to work. Today's information management is largely done by means of IT systems. Madam President, I would like It was in 2011 that the Swedish National Audit Office urged Swedish authorities to buy more of their IT from external suppliers in order to save money. In 2015, the Swedish Transport Agency began its outsourcing of the register of vehicles and driving licences. 1,000 servers as well as computer halls and support outsourced. Today we can hardly conclude that this was a mistake and that the stop that the Security Service wanted in 2016 for this outsourcing would have happened already there and then. This week came the news that the Swedish Transport Agency cannot conclude the agreement that has been in force with the IT company it has outsourced to and that the agreement will need to be extended – this is because the Swedish authorities are not themselves able to build their own management system in such a short time. So the problem is not yet solved, and Sweden's IT security is not secure. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that outsourcing, or outsourcing, of data worthy of protection should not be possible to the extent that it is happening today. It doesn't make sense. It is a danger to national security, and it is a danger that your and my information will be disseminated to people who should definitely not know about it. But decisions like this do not take place in a vacuum. It is a matter of political will to slump authorities and save money, and it allows this to take precedence over security, quality and reasonableness. We see this in many different areas, where different tasks are put out to private companies at the lowest price. What happened at the Swedish Transport Agency is an example of when things are going really, really bad – especially because it is about such sensitive materials and especially in combination with the intelligence threat that exists against Sweden. Then you must not be politically naive. The Swedish National Audit Office has regularly reviewed our authorities' information security work, and this shows a number of shortcomings. Among other things, the authorities' conditions for effective information security work and follow-up work have been too poor. The same is said by Säpo, who is the authority that checks that our authorities are doing well. Säpo believes that many authorities do not have sufficient knowledge of security protection and of the threats to them. There is a lack of security analysis, there is a lack of knowledge about the intelligence threat and there is a lack of knowledge in the outsourcing process. At the same time, we know that the intelligence threat to Sweden is great and that security protection is not enough. From a total defence perspective, it is important for several authorities and companies to be able to work together on security issues, especially when it comes to protecting themselves against attacks. This knowledge does not exist today. I am therefore a little surprised that no more parties than the Left Party see the danger of outsourcing information on IT and that they do not understand why this must be stopped. The authorities must build their own knowledge, their own IT structure and security awareness. They must take home the information that has been outsourced today. A political will to increase the outsourcing of IT services must be put in relation to the security risks that this may pose. When short-term profit becomes a driving force for maintaining functioning IT systems, long-term sustainability is put on an exception, and the whole is lost. Madam President, I would like The Transport Board event shall not occur again. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-CfqQ6cnLCS6eCcJAc8weBe	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Justice today proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal for a new act on security. The current law dates from 1996, and the conditions for security protection have changed in many ways during this time. It is high time the law was replaced. It is important that information that is important for Sweden's security or that is protected by international commitments is precisely protected and that the requirements for action to make it clear are clear. The law applies in both general and individual activities and clarifies the obligation of the security-sensitive operator. Madam President, I would like Today's security policy threats are often cross-border and non-military. Digitisation and use of information technology has undergone a significant change, and society's increased cyber-dependence makes it very likely that socially important systems can be affected with serious consequences. Deregulation and the opening-up to competition of socially important activities have meant that a large part of the activities that are important for the functioning of Swedish society are no longer under direct state influence. When operations are outsourced, perhaps even foreign ownership and influence, security protection faces specific challenges. This has been demonstrated not least by the events at the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Security Service has shown that additional measures in addition to those in the 2015 investigation are needed. Therefore, in March 2017, the Government appointed additional directives in January this year for an additional report to be presented on 31 October 2018 to identify and propose measures to prevent data related to Sweden's security and security-sensitive operations from being exposed to risks related to outsourcing, assignment or transfer of such activities. The investigation shall also propose measures, such as authorisation testing. The committee would like to emphasise, Madam President, that supervision is important and therefore makes a few contributions to the government on the responsibilities and powers of the supervisory authorities, organisation and allocation of resources. The Government has already recognised the need, and the mission of the investigation includes proposing how appropriate supervision should be designed. That is why this proposal and this report only partially address this issue. Pending the investigation's proposal, the Government has decided to tighten the requirements for state authorities when outsourcing security-sensitive activities. According to an amendment to the Security Regulation that entered into force on 1 April 2018, government authorities shall consult with one of the supervisory authorities Security Service or the Swedish Armed Forces prior to the start of outsourcing. The Swedish Security Service or the Swedish Armed Forces must also be able to decide that such a procedure may not be carried out. So they have the opportunity to veto. It feels both wise and safe. If the supervisory authority says no, it should not be possible to round that decision. The third announcement in the report concerns the extent to which the Government Office is to be covered by the law. If the Government Office is to be covered by all the provisions, constitutional difficulties may arise. It is not entirely self-evident that a regime in which one or more government authorities would supervise the Government Office would be in line with the rules of the government. The Government Office also handles sensitive information that is scarcely present in other public activities and that places special requirements on regulations and organisation. The Constitutional Committee, as we in the Committee on Justice have asked for its opinion, notes that there are no formal obstacles to examining the extent to which the Government Office is to be included, but also says that the constitutional aspect that the Constitutional Committee is presenting should be taken into account in that case. It may be difficult purely constitutional to have a system in which an authority governed by the Government will simultaneously supervise the Government Office and then report to the Government. However, according to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, this may be investigated. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-679	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved. There are strong reasons why Sweden needs a new security law. The current legislation is 20 years old, and the need for security protection is quite different today. There are at least three reasons for that. Firstly, digitalisation, globalisation and privatisation have been important guiding principles for creating a more efficient and prosperous society. But these factors also make completely new and different demands when we protect Sweden from espionage and influence attempts from foreign power. Secondly, Sweden has been in a much worse security policy situation for some years. We know that the intelligence threat to Sweden is on the increase, and we know that we cannot rule out the risk of Sweden being subjected to an armed attack. Thirdly, for several years, the Swedish Security Service has warned that there are major deficiencies in the security of Swedish authorities. These include weak IT systems and a lack of safety analysis. But above all, according to Säpo, there is a lack of safety culture in many authorities. The latter, after all, was made quite clear last summer by the breakdown that had taken place at the Swedish Transport Agency and what then took place when the government was going to deal with the matter. Of course, it is not possible to separate the issue of a new security law from one of the largest security candals in Swedish political history. Basically, this is because confidence in this government in dealing with these issues is greatly weakened by the question of the Transport Agency. Madam President, I would like The most important question we have to ask ourselves when dealing with this bill is whether it will help strengthen Sweden's security. As the Committee on Justice notes, there are significant shortcomings in the proposal. I would like to highlight two of the shortcomings that I think are most serious, namely the problems with the supervision of the law and the exceptions for the application of the new law to the Government Office. First of all: Presenting a new security law without reporting how to strengthen supervision is a bit like presenting new laws without having access to police officers. The laws then become more of wishes that cannot be realized in reality. It is not effective, and it is not serious, because the very essence of the security work lies precisely in the interaction between the supervisory authorities and those who carry out security-sensitive activities. They're the ones who are going to make sure there's a workshop of security. We know that there are already shortcomings in the interaction between these two actors. This may be due to a lack of competence on the part of the authorities when carrying out their own safety analysis, but it may also be because the instructions, regulations and advice from the supervisory authorities are not actually good enough to provide concrete guidance in the safety analysis work. Thomas Bull's investigation into the Swedish Transport Agency pointed out that Säpo has difficulties in overcoming security oversight activities, as there are many other commitments. Of course, it is easy to understand in the light of the fact that we are living in an increasingly uncertain world. Madam President, I would like This situation will, to some extent, get worse when the new legislation comes into place, because this will widen the number of actors affected by the Security Act. There is therefore a need for a broader review of the allocation of resources, responsibilities and organisation of supervisory authorities. Otherwise, the new legislation will not work. It is therefore very gratifying that the Committee has supported this proposal by the Alliance in broad political agreement. Madam President, I would like In view of the scandal at the Transsports Board, I find it remarkable, to say the least, that the government has presented a bill that will strengthen and broaden the security protection of everyone in society except for itself. Instead, an exception is made in the application of the Security Act to its own Government Office without providing any justification. This has led to criticism from the referral bodies, not least from the Swedish Armed Forces, which I think there are strong reasons to take very seriously. There are several examples of when the Government Office has previously failed to keep important information secret. But it is not the first time that the government has acted in this way. Last autumn, the government presented a new information and cyber security strategy, and we saw the same pattern there – it would be a strategy for the whole of society, but it did not mention in a word how the Government Office should be organised to enhance information security there. After all, the government office itself is the nervous system for the control of the authorities, and it was this nervous system that collapsed when dealing with the question of the Transport Agency. This is a very important issue on which we have not been informed by the government. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is almost a year since the biggest security scandal in Swedish political history occurred, and the government has not yet presented the lessons learned from the accident linked to the Swedish Transport Agency or any measures to strengthen security at the Government Office. Yet there have been golden opportunities to do so, linked both to the new security law and to the information security strategy. Instead, it seems that the words Government Office, information security and security protection are consistently avoided in the same breath. This is a great flaw; it does not hold. It damages confidence in the government in these matters and makes its proposals and letters less relevant. I therefore welcome the fact that the Committee, in broad political agreement, has now supported the Alliance-wide motion that we should actually investigate how we can increase security at the Government Office. Basically, it is a matter of course striving to have the greatest common political consensus on matters of national security.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-695	Madam President, I would like If we, Pål Jonson, move away from the fact that the Moderates want to paint that the big problem lies in the Government Office and raise their eyes when it comes to what the IT scandal at Transportstyrelsen is really about, this stems from a political view and political will. Like Thatcher, Reagan and others who are certainly political idols for Pål Jonson and other right-wing politicians, you have always cheered for the introduction of new public management, Lean and other delicious models in public administration, which basically aim to reduce public administration, slim down the authorities and instead outsource very important skills and knowledge to various private companies. They have often participated in a procurement procedure, which according to law has to be done at the lowest price. You simply want to privatise the public to slip it down, no matter what the consequences are. We have seen that this leads to many problems in terms of welfare, but also in terms of national security. It is about serious things when we let private companies take care of very sensitive information, for which there is obviously no competence. Whose responsibility this is will hopefully come to light, but my question is: why do the Moderates want to maintain this privatisation of security-sensitive information when there is such an obvious security risk? It is not only the Left Party that says this, but also our friends at the Security Service.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-699	Madam President, I would like We have often heard this interpretation of history on the question of the Transport Agency. The big problem would be that it was outsourcing, but that is not factually true. The problem at Transportstyrelsen was that they deviated from the security regulations. The personnel of the company concerned had not been checked for safety or records. That's where the cloun is and the problems lie in the specific affair. When it comes to the broader issue, it is easy to get the picture that Linda Snecker wants to see a major renationalisation of, for example, the IT business. I do not believe that this is realistic, for a number of reasons. I do not believe that the authorities are competent to do this, and I do not believe that the resources that are there are sufficient to get the great renationalisation that I know the Left Party is asking for. There are, in fact, reasons why private operators can be used as long as they do the right thing. It is in the procurement that cloun sits – that you follow the regulations and laws that exist. If we solve that part of the procurement, I believe that we have the potential to use private operators also in relation to things that may be security sensitive. It is clear in the bill that there are security-sensitive activities that are conducted privately, but then one must of course ensure that laws and regulations are complied with. Then you can handle that part. So I do not really understand how the great renationalisation, with which I understand that the Left Party sympathises, will take place and whether it will be effective so that we get a good use of resources. Linda Snecker is welcome to guide me in this.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-703	Madam President, I would like The problem is, as you say, Pål, that the authorities do not have competence when they do a procurement. This is one of the major problems in this process, in addition to procurement from companies performing the service at the lowest price and without the necessary skills. It is a balance: the authorities are not doing their part, and private companies are not living up to what we in this House may have legislated on and would like them to do. That the Left Party wants to nationalize everything is well a moderate description of how they would like a left-wing policy to look like. That is not really the case. But we certainly see the problem when public activities go into private service. The Swedish Transport Agency is far too clear an example of this problem. My next question to the Moderates is: You like some new legal traditions in Swedish politics. You are currently in an electoral movement where you are happy to go further and a little harder than other parties. Are there other parts of the judiciary that the Moderates would like to privatise? Here you can fiddle freely: Is it the police we should privatize? Should we try private prisons? Are there other things, apart from sensitive security information, that you are happy to post on private companies? Are there other public activities that the Moderates want to privatize?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-706	Madam President, I would like I always get worried when Linda Snecker puts words in my mouth, and I understand that she owns the interpretation of Left Party politics. I want to say a few things linked to the reflection Linda Snecker does. What you have to do when outsourcing is to ensure that you have a critical review on a case-by-case basis. We also know that there is now an investigation led by Stefan Strömberg looking at the issue of outsourcing. We support it and have no objection whatsoever. We basically think it is a good thing, so there are no naive pretences about this. Nevertheless, what I would like to note when we talk about this issue is that the Moderates are, as far as I know, the only party that has been out and said that we must also discuss foreign investment in critical infrastructure. We do this in the awareness that we are fundamentally in favour of OPS and that kind of solution, as long as it happens on a case-by-case basis. However, we have signalled that after the election we will initiate an investigation where we look at investments in critical infrastructure in Sweden, precisely to get things right. I think that is absolutely necessary in a situation where we know that the threat of intelligence against us is increasing and we see major investments, especially from China but also from Russia, in critical infrastructure. If we get this right, I think we can find the balance between what the private and the public should do also in terms of security-sensitive activities.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-710	Madam President, I would like I just want to say that I think it is good that we agree that supervision is an important part of government, public and also individual activities. But Pål Jonson also says that there is not much in this bill that says how to handle supervision, and you have also written that in your motion. The fact is, however, that this bill is based on an investigation that your government set up in 2011. There wasn't much. There was no special mission to look deeper at this piece. That is why our government has set up a complementary investigation – because it needs to review precisely the appropriate supervision. You, too, and so did Linda Snecker in her speech, raise this with outsourcing and how to back down. I don't think it's possible to do it fully, but I think it's very good that we get better control. I think we are in complete agreement on this. At the same time, a change to the regulation was made because it is faster. A change of law takes a lot longer. However, it is wise to also look at how to relate to the regulatory requirements – whether they should be in law or in regulation. So do I. Then I just want to end by saying that the Swedish Transport Agency is currently being examined by the KU, so I do not think that we should have views on one side or the other. I look forward to the KU's presentation of the audit that has been carried out.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-715	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is true, as Helene Petersson in Stockaryd says, that the investigation on which the bill was based was launched in 2011. It was Sten Heckscher who was an investigator. I can only say that in 2011 we had a fundamentally different security policy situation in Sweden. I believe that much of the intention with that investigation was to harmonise classification in Sweden, for example, with the NATO level – four different classes. It was therefore a major attempt at harmonisation. Then I think that the current government should have heeded the signals that we still received from the security policy windshield that took place after 2014. It is mainly about Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and its warfare in Donbass. After all, it places new and higher demands on the government to actually include important security provisions in this legislation. It is quite correct that it is an ongoing investigation, which Stefan Strömberg runs, which looks at this among other things. But his investigation is mainly about looking at the sanction system. That's what's important. Secondly, we look at the issue of outsourcing. In fact, what we are asking for in our motion is a broader review of the responsibilities and tasks of the supervisory authorities. It is very clear in Mr Strömberg's directive that he should be based on the structure that we have today. There is no mention of any increase in resources in this area. There are thus a number of issues that need to be addressed more broadly than the mandate that Strömberg has. He's due to finish his investigation on October 31st this year.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-719	Madam President, I would like He's got three missions. Outsourcing of security-sensitive activities – for example, the need to prevent with authorisation testing – is one. The second is about sanctions, as Pål Jonson says. The third assignment he has is about proper supervision. All the suggestions that you have in your motion have already been given a mandate. Pål Jonson says we should have got started on this already in 2014, but the investigation came in 2015. If an investigation is to be dealt with correctly, it should be referred for a referral. And when it is a rather heavy investigation about a new security law, it is important that the consultation bodies have time but also that the Government Office has time to review what the consultation bodies say before adding any additional investigation. It is quite pointless to anticipate that process and perhaps end up completely wrong and get to do it all over again and set up a new investigation. So this lies and drags since the investigation in 2011. There was a need for that investigation. We got the referrals – it was about both the criticism and the support that was given. This is now being supplemented. I look forward to seeing which answers and which questions are being addressed and which are presented in October 2018.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-722	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to correct Helene Petersson on two points. What I said was not that you would necessarily start writing the bill in 2014, but what I said was that it was a safety-political watershed in 2014, which should have made it take on many more signals that we need to increase security protection. It was a general reflection that the security policy environment was fundamentally different after 2014. That is what the criticism is about in this respect. Then there are the directives that Stefan Strömberg has and what we have had views on and objections to. It says, as Helene Petersson says, that he should also look at the supervisory function. But it says: within the framework of current structures. It should therefore be Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces who should handle this. There is no mention of any possibilities for organisational change. There is no mention of the possibility that this will cost more money – we know it will. It has emerged from many of the referrals that this legislation is very broad in nature. It covers all issues that are sensitive to Sweden's security. It therefore affects all those who carry out security-sensitive activities. This means that there is a great deal of room for interpretation. We also know that the law will be extended. There will be more actors that will influence it. This requires us to strengthen the agencies' resources and organisations and to look at their responsibilities to a much greater extent than I think Stefan Strömberg's investigation directives express.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-726	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Justice is debating the report A modern and strengthened protection for Sweden's security – a new security law. The Green Party believes that Sweden must build its security broadly. The threats we face are not just military threats. It is also about the risk of influence operations from foreign power as well as individual actors and organisations as well as terrorist threats and other things. It is essential that we take information security very seriously. This applies to all activities. The threats that we face today are of the nature that even a private operator's activities, such as electricity companies or others performing socially important functions, can be the subject of attacks, which in turn risk the safety of the people of Sweden. Therefore, I think that the most important thing to highlight in this new law is the clear responsibility for all actors to make safety analyses of the information and values that exist in their operations. Madam President, I would like In this context, it is not possible to avoid talking about the Transport Agency and the obvious lack of understanding that existed at the authority that the information that was handled was so safe that it could not be outsourced anyway. Madam President, I would like Even if we are to await the further examination by the Constitutional Committee, it is quite clear that this accident deserves to be discussed in this context too. This is a clear example of where there are shortcomings in precisely the work on safety protection. Madam President, I would like Much has been said about the proposal presented today. I shall not extend the debate further. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, including the call for further study on the issues of supervision.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-732	Madam President, I would like But this is serious – those words were announced at a meeting about Sweden's security and the threats that hang over us. That's it. It suddenly dawned on the meeting participants who said just that. It's been serious for a long time. I think it is time for the whole political field to do the same kind of awakening as my colleague did at this meeting. We must realise that there are forces that do not want Sweden well and that these forces have the resources, the will and the ability to harm us if we end up in a situation where we and our interests are between them and theirs. We who work on these issues see how preparations for aggression against Sweden are taking place all the time. It is about acquiring information about essential social functions and knowledge about how to knock them out, all to damage the functioning of our society and weaken us. This is something that happens on all the bows. First of all, the physical, i.e. our everyday needs for electricity, food, cash and communication, and the digital. The origins of the report we are debating today are in many ways the need to steer security protection, which we have seen with various examples too weak. The most noted example has been mentioned several times here today and must be considered as the complete breakdown of the Swedish Transport Agency, which was discovered almost a year ago, which focused on the government's inadequate safety work. Two ministers were forced to leave the government on this occasion, and there is an ongoing review in the Constitutional Committee on liability issues. It is remarkable that the Prime Minister, if that were the case, allowed himself to be kept in ignorance about this for national security very, very serious. However, I will not dwell unnecessarily on it, because now is the time to look forward. This can and should be discussed in other forums. What is important is what we learn from the government's security failure and what we can do forward to ensure that it does not happen again, while also reducing the risk of other similar cases occurring. Madam President, I would like In the past, at that time countries declared war on each other in scrupulously written letters with the king's seal, war began with soldiers marching in across a border. In our day, that is how war ends — with soldiers marching in. Instead, from a clear boundary between war and peace, we have a large number of shades of darkness where twilight may be regarded as the crucial and most sensitive. Everyone who plays chess knows that all too often, at least when you, like me, are not very skilled, you are affected by the realization that what gives you problems now was actually founded four moves back. That's when you had to do something. We must understand that the war is already going on in many ways and that our opponents are making their moves now. How we will be able to handle them depends on how we deal with these threats right now, before we end up in a position where we have to sacrifice our dearest pieces to stay in the game. Security is essential, and although it is, of course, a good thing that the Government is making the proposal, it is perhaps symptomatic for this parliamentary term that we in the Alliance must take responsibility for adjusting and improving the proposals put on the table of Parliament. It is a good thing that we have found a consensus in committee, and colleagues here should have a sincere commendation for their willingness to listen, discuss and develop the legislative proposals based on the Alliance's thoughts. At the same time, we must note that we are losing time and momentum when the government persists in delivering poor or at least inadequate proposals. However, this autumn there is an opportunity to change this and choose a new leadership for Sweden ahead.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-744	point in solidarity with the Afghan people. We want Sweden to be an active and present actor in Afghanistan and support the work of Afghan people for peace, development, democracy and gender equality. That is how Afghan society can be stabilised and further developed. Negotiations on the EU-Afghanistan Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement started in 2011 and, as the Government describes in its proposal, is an important step in the EU's engagement in Afghanistan. The Left Party has long called for an increased focus on civilian and humanitarian operations rather than military ones. We are therefore in favour of much of the agreement but would particularly like to stress the importance of allowing Afghanistan itself to own its development. We would also like to emphasise that the implementation of the various parts of the agreement must be done with respect for democracy and human rights. Afghanistan's history shows that there is no military solution to the country's problems. Foreign military presence has repeatedly deepened and reinforced the country's conflicts. The Left Party sees that Afghanistan's major challenges can only be solved through a civil and political strategy. In Afghanistan, a new generation of young women and men is growing up. Many of them lack opportunities for education, livelihood and a life that is not limited by oppression and poverty. This picture is confirmed not least by all the unaccompanied children and young people who have fled the country. A future must be created for all young people and children in Afghanistan. Lack of faith in the future and frustration is the Taliban's best friend; it both facilitates their recruitment and gives Daish air under its wings. Civil aid is therefore crucial to solving the root causes of the war in Afghanistan. At the same time, civil action must be complemented by efforts to support the attempts at a peace and reconciliation process. This process must accommodate a wide range of all the groups involved in Afghan society in order to take shape a long-term, peaceful solution. It is therefore important for civil society to have a more prominent role in future peace talks. It is particularly important that the women of Afghanistan are included in the peace process so that their influence and rights are not negotiated away. Madam President, I would like The Left Party defends the right to seek asylum and the possibility of legal escape routes. Unfortunately, the EU-Afghanistan cooperation agreement also contains provisions on migration. It establishes, inter alia, that the Parties shall cooperate in order to prevent irregular migration flows and that this shall be in line with the Union's Global Approach to Migration and Mobility as well as relevant international conventions. The Left Party is strongly critical of the current EU-Afghanistan return agreement. This also applies to the subsequent bilateral agreement between Sweden and Afghanistan. In a situation where the need for effective aid is enormous and the need for assistance to people on the run is greater than ever, the EU chooses to change its development policy in order to stop migration rather than fighting poverty and smoothing the gaps. The EU's strategy is to conclude refugee agreements with poor countries to keep people outside its borders. When distress is greatest, the richest continent in the world chooses to duck its responsibility for people on the run. Since autumn 2015, the EU has been working intensively to conclude pacts with a number of countries, including Africa and the Middle East, to prevent refugees from coming to Europe. The pacts contain promises of aid and trade agreements in exchange for controls on migration. The European Commission's Directorate-General for Development has concluded that migration is the primary focus of at least 17% of the EU's planned assistance efforts since the beginning of 2016. The re-prioritising of aid policy also extends to bilateral aid programmes within the EU Member States. The EU's new focus in development policy is thus contrary to the basic principles of aid. Assistance shall be based on the beneficiary's own needs and priorities and shall not be conditional on political priorities in donor countries. Several of the EU actions financed with aid funds must not be counted as aid. These include assistance for border guarding and detention. Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2016, when the EU signed return agreements with Afghanistan, it threatened to grant aid equivalent to SEK 10 billion annually over a four-year period. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world. Their domestic revenues represent only 10.4% of GDP, and so they depend so much on foreign aid that the Afghan Government had difficulty resisting the pressure from the EU. Afghanistan can in no way be described as a safe country, and the development challenges are enormous. The Afghan Minister for Refugees has on several occasions appealed to the EU not to depopulate people into the country. Instead, the agreement has forced us to commit ourselves to the recovery of refugees who have been expelled by force, something we have opposed in the past. The fact that Sweden has signed a bilateral readmission agreement with Afghanistan through EU agreements is directly shameful. Moreover, we have received reports of the actual killing of young people who have returned. In previous motions in the Riksdag, the Left Party has said that Sweden as an individual country as well as within the EU and the UN should counteract any decision that violates the right to asylum and the human rights of refugees. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-760	Madam President, I would like The challenges facing the war and conflict-affected Afghan people are, of course, enormous. Sweden provides, and has provided, long-term support to Afghans in areas of security and development. Sweden also has a long-term agreement with the Government of Afghanistan. Swedish women and men have participated in the work in the civil non-profit sector, with the support of the Swedish people, and in the Swedish military operation. For that, thank you to all of them. It is an important work that has been done and is still being done. Madam President, I would like The report deals with the EU's cooperation with Afghanistan. Just as Sweden has a long-term agreement, it is good that there is now a long-term agreement between the EU and Afghanistan. It is an agreement that aims ten years ahead, and it is an agreement based on a number of principles that we think are important. It is about the rule of law and democracy. It is not least important for the forthcoming elections, which are of great importance. We hope that we can once again see that we have created the conditions for women in Afghanistan to take part in the elections, as we have done in the past. What has been discussed in this report is the readmission agreement. Let me be clear, Madam President. This is about the right to return. It is not a question of conditional aid, it is a question of countries not shutting their people out. Right of return, the right to return, is an important principle that we in Sweden have maintained, and still claim. Countries should not be able to ethnically clear or shut out their population, but should be given the opportunity to return. It is an important starting point when we talk about return agreements. Sometimes it just sounds like we're throwing out or forcing out, but of course it's also about the right to return. Madam President, I would like Let us take Syria as an example. The country requires citizens to show proof that they have owned land or real estate within 30 days, otherwise the property will become state-owned. This means denying people the opportunity to return to the existence they had before the war. Of course, we should not support such a policy. It is therefore important that there is a readmission element in the agreements; the right to return. I would like to emphasise that in this agreement, as the committee also emphasises, it is not a question of conditionality, but of finding common solutions between Afghanistan and the European Union. It is also about the need for the EU to see more for more principle. It is not that we dictate terms, it is about partnership. That is an important starting point. It is a partnership agreement on which we have a position. It should be maintained, and there is also a structure for how it should be maintained. That is an important starting point for us to say yes. Nor is it a question of readmission requirements in the way that has sometimes been expressed in the debate over the last few weeks that we, from the Swedish side, claim. This is a position which we in the Center Party do not consider reasonable. We think it is important to have the right to asylum, and we think it goes without saying that aid should be given on the basis of the OECD-Dac principles. That is also what the report emphasises. Madam President, I would like I note with some surprise that in its reservation, the Left Party says: When we in this House decide on the basis of Swedish development policy, this is our starting point. There are a wide range of strategies. We are talking about equality, democracy, women's rights and the SRHR. There are many issues where Sweden goes in with aid to try to bring about change. It is our role as donors to also contribute our experience, knowledge and values to improving conditions for people in other parts of the world. That is what we shall do in cooperation with Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-770	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Migration is part of the agreement we are discussing today. Later, readmission agreements have also been concluded between the EU and Afghanistan, and some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements with Afghanistan. The readmission agreement aims to facilitate Afghanistan's responsibility for the reception of its citizens. As Kerstin Lundgren said earlier, it is also a right to return to your country. I would like to emphasise that the committee has been extremely clear that the purpose of Swedish aid is to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression, and ODA funds, that is, aid money, should be used in accordance with the principles laid down by OECD-Dac. I would really like to emphasise that the government has in no way threatened to withdraw aid in order to conclude agreements with Afghanistan.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-774	Madam President, I would like It is a subsidiarity test that we are going to discuss today, and it is important to bear in mind. Maybe I'll come back to it eventually. It is about the Commission's proposal to set up the European Labour Authority. The aim of the Authority is to strengthen trust and to seek to contribute to a fairer internal market. I should like to start by mentioning that this proposal is not presented by a socialist image stormer. It is a conservative European politician, deeply entrenched in the conservative centre, who nevertheless realises that if a society is to be kept together – whether it is a national state or a single market with free movement – one must have legitimacy for this in the eyes of the population. This is the insight that has slowly but surely penetrated the Commission. It is important to bear this in mind, Madam President, because the Swedish bourgeoisie does not seem to have come to quite the same insight as the bourgeoisie in Europe. The EU has in time developed legislation regulating the free movement of workers, postings, etc. There are several proposals to amend this. That is how it is – you have to have a system that works, that can cope with the challenges we face. What matters now is that over the last decade, the number of people living or working in another EU country has become 17 million. It is, of course, one of the ideas of the European Union and freedom of movement that one should be able to move, seek work and work in another country. Both the Commission and the European Parliament have expressed the need for enhanced supervision and coordination, including enhanced exchange of information between national labour inspectorates. The Council has stressed the importance of improving administrative cooperation and the need to increase support and exchange of information. It is basically about combating fraud and abuse of rules in the area of posting, for example, i.e. creating what we in Sweden usually call order. For a Swede it feels as if it would not be difficult to approach this with confidence. The Agency is concerned with a number of tasks: providing information and services to both employers and individuals, supporting Member States, coordinating information exchange, joint inspections, risk assessment, etc. It is a question of improving the functioning and integration and/or complementarity of the structures and tools available in the field of cross-border labour mobility. Strengthen existing EU agencies and ensure that these EU agencies, where Member States and national authorities, inter alia, cooperate, exchange best practices to bring this enhanced cooperation to a new level with a new authority. It is also the background to this proposal – ensuring that freedom of movement works better with greater legitimacy and that, in order to defend the idea of free movement, it is recognised that it must also be done on fair terms. The Commission argues well that this is in line with the principle of subsidiarity, in my view and the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party. We also have a reservation on the opinion proposed by the committee. The government reviews the subsidiarity assessment and notes that this involves facilitating access to information in cross-border situations, supporting cooperation between Member States and facilitating cooperation at national, regional and local level. It is not enough to achieve these specific objectives and the overall objective of the proposal to ensure fair mobility in the internal market. It calls for this to be raised at European level. Against this background, the Government considers that the Commission's proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that if a European Employment Authority is to be set up in order to achieve the objectives of the proposal, this needs to reasonably be done at EU level. It is important, Madam President, to point out once again that it is a subsidiarity test that we are discussing today. As I said, I will come back to that point. The government further argues that, for this proposal to be proportionate, the Regulation must be designed so that the objectives of the proposal can be met in a resource- and cost-effective way and with respect for the allocation of competences between the EU and the Member States, national labour market models and social security systems. It is a work that continues, but it is necessary that we proceed with the proposal if we are to get it to meet the requirements of the government. I think it is quite a qualified guess that there will be a labour market authority at European level. In that case, it is important that the Swedish Government is involved and continues to contribute to its compliance with the requirements for dealing with national labour market models and social security systems. I believe, Madam President, that the argument that this is compatible with the principle of subsidiarity is very weak from the majority of the committee in the report. You argue more on the basis that you don't like the idea of justice. We know that the Alliance does not do this – it does not like that it is possible to better protect workers' rights, and it wants to reject the proposal on the basis of that argument. This leads to an exciting discussion about what a subsidiarity test should really be. It also states that the Constitutional Committee has drawn attention to the fact that the subsidiarity tests are carried out at the same time as matters are examined in substance, and it says that the role of national parliaments in controlling subsidiarity risks losing importance. That, in itself, is a reasonable objection, I might say. But I can also think, Madam President, that it is a greater problem for the importance of the subsidiarity test and the role of national parliaments if the very idea of subsidiarity testing is misused and, even in the subsidiarity test, the case is stopped because it does not like the substance of the matter. It will be, as it were, a double process if you examine the case at the same time as you examine the matter under subsidiarity, and afterwards the matter will be examined. When I read that objection, I can agree that things should go in the right order. However, this presupposes that the subsidiarity test examines what is to be tested. There is also reason to point out something that is new in Swedish politics even if it has been going on for some time. That is the Moderates' new view of Europe. It is slowly but surely leaving its former centrepiece of European conservative policy, similar to that from which the President of the Commission or the German Christian Democrats come, and is pulling more towards an English tory line which is generally Eurosceptic. I believe, Madam President, that there is great reason to draw the attention of the Swedish people, the Swedish business community and Swedish employees to the fact that the Moderates are taking this position, because it is a position that can seriously harm Sweden as a country and a member of the European Union and our influence in the future development of the European Union. An even more remarkable detail of today's report is that the Liberals, who normally pursue a more constructive and positive policy of European work, are engaging in some sort of co-runnery of the Conservative Tories of Moderates and, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, support what I feel is a destructive attitude in European politics. Unfortunately, there is nothing I can debate with any representative of the Liberals here today, because, as far as I understand it, there is no one on the list of speakers or present in this House. But it is above all the Liberals that I would like to ask questions to. I wonder whether they have realised what the consequences will be if Sweden approaches a British approach to the EU, where even moderate representatives start talking about svexit. What kind of complications does this give Sweden and Sweden the opportunity to participate constructively in Europe's work in the future? It is an interesting debate. We will see if we have an opportunity to bring it with the Liberals in this House at any other time. As I said, if this is just about the decision we are going to take today, about the subsidiarity test, then I believe that the arguments of both the Commission and the government, as set out in the report, explain very thoroughly and well why this proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity. Madam President, I would like I therefore support our reservation not to submit a reasoned opinion.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-795	Madam President, I would like This is perhaps a little strange and in some ways difficult to understand. On paper, this may look like a principled assessment of the EU's power in relation to national legislation and practice. Then it may seem a little strange that I, as an EU critic, basically fall on the same line as Patrik Björck, who is usually quite unreservedly positive and enthusiastic about things that happen in and around the EU system. But that is not the case in reality, but rather the fact that, unfortunately, the right-wing parties have come together in slightly different shades around a position which, a little bit, makes a mockery of the very important institution that Parliament's subsidiarity test is. It is important to assess those issues where subsidiarity testing is possible seriously on the basis of whether they fit better at EU level or whether they should be kept under national competence. This is a rather unfinished proposal for a European Labour Authority so far, and in much of this there is a broad consensus in this House. It should not be an authority that even risks trumping the Swedish labour market model. It should not grow into an unwieldy and great bureaucracy. It must relate primarily to situations arising from precisely EU rules on labour mobility. We agree on this, and the government has sought support for a position with this particular focus in view of the initial talks. But the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois did not want to give a mandate and did not want to enter into these discussions. Over time, however, it has become clear that there is an idea that we can get a position on the substance of these issues, and yet this discussion, in the context of the subsidiarity test, comes up with a decision that is quite difficult to understand. It is as much more important for the right-wing parties to play a political game with the government than to take responsibility for a serious parliamentary assessment on the issue of subsidiarity. I think it is important to try to understand why this is happening. Patrik Björck touched it a little from his perspective, and I think it is basically political impulses on the right side that are quite revealing. When it comes to issues of transferring power to the European Union or doing things at European level, right-wingers have rarely had any problems with things that have a very profound impact on the Swedish labour market. We all remember the discussions on lex Laval when, following a ruling by the European Court of Justice, it took the opportunity to introduce legislation that went a long way in influencing and tying up Swedish workers' organisations in order to make it more difficult for them to take on the responsibilities incumbent upon them according to the Swedish model: to be able to fight for equal pay and equal opportunities. There are also a number of other situations where the right wing has been very enthusiastic about laws and regulations that make it more difficult to assert Swedish solutions and practices in the labour market and in other situations. Reference is made to state aid rules or free movement in the most strange and far-reaching situations. What has happened recently in the EU system is that there is a greater understanding also among many conservative and liberal forces in the various countries of the Union because this creates some problems on the ground that should be addressed. It has been recognised that workers' rights are not a residual item to see what happens to them, but an important part of people's lives. That is why, not least for those who want the EU to be a Union that has legitimacy among people in Europe, it is strange to ignore the effects of policies at European level. Now that there are currents that want to do small but not unimportant things to sort out these problems, Swedish right behind, which is interesting. We saw the same discussions on the social pillar, which is not legislation but a sort of declaration that workers' rights are important. With the exception of the Liberals, it was also wanted to stop being accepted. What you want more and more, through your aggressive approach to this policy, is a Europe that should be even more a mere lever for capital interests. It is remarkable, interesting to point out and a bit boring. To be clear, as it says in all sorts of documents and speeches on this issue, we should not, of course, have an authority that will become some kind of supreme court. It's not on the map. Of course, we should not have a bureaucratic colossus that will grow large and crowd out everything else. But, in substance, it is good if there is an organisation which, to a greater extent than today, collects statistics and monitors the reality of situations where workers move across borders and where we know that there can be many complex problems. This is much better than much else in the EU, which we are happy to cut back on – if that is where it is squeezed. After all, we agree that the EU budget should not grow and so on. On the question of principle, there is a mandate from the committee on what to negotiate on the content of this, as I said at the outset. However, drawing up the subsidiarity card, as it does here, is quite irresponsible, because it should be reserved for when there are real threats of transferring power and decision-making powers to the EU on issues where the EU should not be and should not be poaching. Today's discussion makes it clear that this is a responsibility that the right parties do not intend to take very seriously, which I regret. I support the reservation that we have with the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-810	Madam President, I would like It's fun to come up as a third person and talk about Moderate politics. It's good when things are about Moderate politics, but I'm going to talk about Moderate politics as it is and where we stand. Patrik Björck can be calm. Me and the Moderates are great friends of European cooperation. We were even the first to say yes to Swedish membership of what is today the European Union. However, we are equally clear that it is important for the Union to be good, for it to do the right things and to devote itself to what is its competence and for the Member States to do what is their competence. Today we are discussing the issue of a European Labour Market Authority and the so-called subsidiarity test of it and whether it is the EU that should decide whether this is reasonable and whether it should be a national competence. We Moderates and the Alliance believe that it is a national decision-making process and that this is not a task for the European Union. It is supported by a majority of members of the Riksdag. We think it is important to send a mark at an early stage when the European Commission wants to implement proposals and take on tasks that trample on the national competences of the Member States. We have therefore examined whether the European Commission's proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a labour market authority is in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. We believe that the proposal is contrary to this principle. The reasons for this assessment include the fact that it is a legislative decision subject to the subsidiarity provisions of Article 5(3) of the Treaty on European Union. We also took note of what we said in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, where we said that we do not think that the Employment Authority should deal with issues relating to employment and social policy. These issues are fundamental to all Member States, and the EU is already working on them in many ways today. There are common rules for the protection of workers. We coordinate between the Member States the rules for the protection of workers and employment policies within the framework of the growth strategy in the EU, what is called Europe 2020. This is mainly about competences that are the Member States' own. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is in favour of improving cooperation between Member States in order to prevent legislation from being circumvented, to change implementation, to protect workers and to deal with cross-border issues. We can see a need to coordinate parts between authorities, but interaction should be carried out primarily through existing processes and the use of existing structures. There is no need to set up a new authority, which also risks becoming costly economically. We have implementing directives for the Posting of Workers Directive with new provisions on administrative cooperation between authorities in the field of posting. We have been early, and we have been clear that we do not believe that the Commission should proceed with the proposal that is now in place for a European Labour Market Authority, as we think it is questionable what added value such an authority would have. It is now clear that the Commission has nevertheless chosen to present the proposal. That is why we are having this debate today – to consider whether the proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity, which is thus enshrined in the Treaty on European Union. Madam President, I would like We believe it is important that different national labour market models and Member States' competences in the social and employment fields are respected. We believe that it is highly unclear what added value an authority would bring. The Commission has not been able to clarify this in the proposal before us, and we find it unreasonable to proceed with the proposal. As I said, there are already established structures at both national and EU level to deal with the issues for which such an authority would be responsible. We see a clear risk that a new authority would create additional structures that increase administration and bureaucracy and generate additional work for the Member States. We think it is important to focus on the right things. It is not so, Patrik Björck, that the Moderates advocate svexit. We advocate a strong and good Europe and genuine Swedish European commitment. That is why, during the eight years of its reign, the Alliance Government received extremely much praise for its deep commitment to European policy, not least by the then Commissioner, Patrik Björck's party partner and the current Foreign Minister Margot Wallström. In view of this, Madam President, I would like to call for the draft decision of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to be approved in the report.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-822	Madam President, I would like With regard to the deep commitment to EU policy, it was notorious and well known that the previous government went down to Brussels and did nothing. For seven years it was said that it would not be possible to deal with the effect of the Laval judgment. The new government went down, negotiated with 27 different Member States and will now be able to move the position to a significantly better position for the Swedish model. It is about the fact that the new, socially-led government had the will for change and hard work. If you are going to work in the European Union and take advantage of what might be positive about cross-border cooperation, you need to be prepared for hard work to influence and ensure that the proposals that come are feasible in accordance with our Swedish labour market model. There was no commitment whatsoever from the Reinfeldt Government. You didn't do anything. I do not know how many times I have stood in this pulpit and put questions to Reinfeldt, Littorin and other moderate ministers about what they did down in Brussels to correct what the Laval ruling has done. The answer was always: it is not possible. We are not doing anything, because if we do something or raise the issue, it risks getting worse. Madam President, I would like My question to Christian Barenfeld is: do you not see any of the concerns that everyone else is seeing about the lack of legitimacy of the European Union? Does Christian Holm Barenfeld have any comments on this? Even liberal and conservative party comrades of Christian Holm Barenfeld in Europe are convinced that this is a problem.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-826	Madam President, I would like The facts speak for themselves, I would say. It is easy to go back and check and see that the Alliance had a genuine commitment to government and that we have a genuine commitment to opposition to EU issues. As far as the Laval issue is concerned, it is not unknown that we had different positions there. We liked the freedom of movement, while Patrik Björck's party friends in LO stood outside the current school in Vaxholm and shouted out Go home! 中 to the employees who came from other EU countries and worked in a legal way in Sweden. I do not think this is worthy of a country that is open and not worthy of an organisation that claims to be a large employee organisation. But I see obvious risks of the EU's lack of legitimacy, and that is precisely why I am so keen that Europe does good things, does the right things and does them effectively. Then I do not think that the right thing to do is for the EU to pick up more tasks, build larger superstructures, cost more money and get its hands on more areas of what are today national decision-making competences. This is not just about right and left. I can say that the person you are talking about, Patrik Björck, who is the President of the European Commission, is in the same group as the Moderates. But it is also extremely clear that we have fundamentally different views on this issue. It is not only the Moderates within the EPP, but it is rather Mr Juncker within the EPP who has his views on this issue.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-829	Madam President, I would like That last one was a very exciting interior from the work of the European People's Party. I'll think about it a little bit. Christian Holm Barenfeld says something very important now that we are going to take on board. He says that we – Moderates and Social Democrats – have different positions on the Laval issue. In this, I read that he thinks he was quite satisfied with the state of affairs that the Laval judgment caused for the Swedish labour market model. I can't interpret it any other way. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that it was okay not to do anything, because we have different positions. When the Social Democrats then lead the government, we go down to Brussels and fix it, because we have a different position. It is not possible to interpret in any other way than that the weakening of the Swedish labour market model that the Laval judgment meant was good for Christian Holm Barenfeld. We Social Democrats do not think so. That's why we're correcting it. But you Moderates thought so, so you did not correct it. That is a very clear and good position that we are getting in this House today. Thank you very much for that, Christian Holm Barenfeld. Madam President, I would like I have one more question. Christian Holm Barenfeld thinks that the EU should do good things. So far, Christian Holm Barenfeld and I can agree. But the question is: does Christian Holm Barenfeld think that freedom of movement is such a good thing? It is to try to maintain, streamline and improve the Commission's proposals to create greater legitimacy among citizens. So the question to Christian Holm Barenfeld is: is free movement such a good thing that the EU should be doing?
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-834	Madam President, I would like Here you go, Patrik Björck. We are clear, and we have many good positions and positions on European policy. If you ask me, the basis of EU cooperation is the four freedoms: the free movement of goods, services and capital, and not least for the citizens of the Union. I think this is a little out of step with what was said earlier. I referred earlier to Patrik Björck's trade union friends in Building who stood and shouted Go home! In an extremely unworthy way in Vaxholm at the time, which was the origin of the Laval judgment. I do not think that is worthy of an open country, a country that claims to want a common Europe and free movement. But I guess it's a payback to LO. As the Chairman of the LO, who is at the top of the Social Democrats, said: 'You give 30 million to the Social Democrats in order to win the elections'. But it won't come for free. You demand results, and you demand changes. My answer to Patrik Björck is: Yes, I will continue to work for freedom of movement and transparency within the European Union. It is a bit telling that the Social Democrats have also been in favour of European cooperation. Then there are different points of view. But here they stand together with two parties. It is an environmental party that has been a genuine opponent of the European Union, but has changed a little. Then there is a party that is still opposed to giving the EU more power. It is a party that has opposed virtually all international cooperation, possibly with the exception of the Warsaw Pact and the Comintern.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-838	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a reasoned opinion to be approved. Madam President, I would like Patrik Björck opened this debate on the principle of subsidiarity by explaining why the Social Democrats think it is an excellent idea to transfer powers from the Swedish social partners and this House to the federalists of the European Union. But, as I said, this applies above all to the principle of subsidiarity and that test. The principle of subsidiarity is a principle whereby decisions must be taken at the lowest appropriate level, as close to the people as possible. If an issue cannot be dealt with and decided at this level, it should, according to the principle, be moved to a higher level, and only then. It is also important to point out that the burden of proof for this is at European level, and from there it must be proven that we cannot deal with these issues at national level. We must bear this in mind when it comes to the Commission's proposal to set up a work authority. The Swedish Democrats' assessment is that the Member States can without doubt offer their citizens the information they need to be able to commute and work in Europe. It is also our assessment that the Commission has failed to prove otherwise. There are no solid reasons to show that this cannot be done nationally. That is exactly what this debate and assessment are about. Patrik Björck used half his speech to explain why it is excellent. Having explained our view of the subsidiarity test, I am going to go into the rest of the work authority and why the EU wants it. In 2017, the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, gave a speech describing the Commission's intention to set up a European Labour Authority. As a Swedish democrat you listen extra carefully as soon as Juncker opens his mouth, because as soon as he speaks you know that there is danger. Juncker does not miss a chance to reduce Member States' self-determination. It is always disguised in positive terms. It is always about people in Europe getting better, getting higher standards and getting as good rights as possible. And who doesn't? We don't mind. What we are opposed to is where decisions are made. All developments in a country should come from what that country's citizens have decided and decided. It should be an expression of their desire for change. Madam President, I would like What exactly is Juncker trying to get through? What should this labour authority do that the Member States cannot do themselves? What is it that calls for another authority, and this time at European level? Many work, travel and commute within the EU. That is one of the reasons why Mr Juncker wants this information authority. It is said that the authority should provide information to companies and workers about rights and obligations. Madam President, I would like We live in such an era where information efforts to be done are carried out via the Internet, websites and the like. You don't start another expensive and heavy-duty authority. In a newsletter you can read that Juncker wants to see the coordination of social security systems. Yeah, there's the plan. They want to see common social security numbers. Madam President, I would like The EU did not get the total union through to the monetary union that was planned. That was the overall objective. But because the resistance is so great, you choose to start at the other end. Harmonisation of systems and introduction of changes that Member States have not asked for. Instead, you start from below and slowly build up a structure. And the work agency is part of that structure. Once this authority has been put in place, it can be assigned more and more tasks, more powers and more power – powers distributed from the national parliaments, or in this case the social partners, to a federal authority at European level. That is why we cannot see every proposal from the European Union alone. Because it's not individual events. It is an ongoing shift in power, a federalisation. Everybody's got to be clear about that. Juncker will never begin to talk about extending the national self-determination of the Member States. But we are Swedish democrats. We are fighting for all Member States to decide for themselves how and at what pace they will develop. We do not support Mr Juncker's, Mr Merkel's or Mr Macron's vision of a European federation. The proposed authority, as it is currently described, should not do anything that we cannot do ourselves at home. The Swedish Democrats and several others in this House therefore believe that the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. The Social Democrats have a well-documented preference for sluggish authorities with unclear and sometimes conflicting missions. But here we have to put our foot down. Please get the work agency you have in Sweden in order, the one we want to close down in the current form, before you form the corresponding authority at federal European level.
i-6a0850910e1bfb4e-853	Madam President, I would like The proposal for a new EU authority gives rise to strong reactions. There are those who rejoice and think that there is finally a stronger social protection so that you do not end up between the systems when you work in another EU country. And the other side notes that the social pillar is the start of a phase-out of the Swedish model. The Center Party sees that we need to improve cooperation between Member States, to prevent circumvention of legislation, to improve implementation, to protect workers and to deal with cross-border issues. We see an increasing number of people moving across borders, which is a good thing and one of the objectives of the European Union. But it leads to problems of various kinds. These problems must be tackled and acted upon by each national authority in order to make it easier for citizens. It is an ongoing work, which must go on regardless of government. In today's subsidiarity test, the crucial argument for saying no is that this area is national competence and a national responsibility to deal with. However, there are several reasons for being sceptical about a new European Labour Authority. To deal with the problems that arise when moving between countries within the EU, one solution could be to have the same system everywhere, to dismantle the Swedish model in favour of a European model. That model would probably have very little in common with what we now think works well here with us. But no one says they want that alternative. With a work agency, with the little that is described so far, the work will go in that direction – even though nobody says that's what you want. The added value of this authority is still unclear. But the ambition to start carefully and then grow is in the cards, with an extension of the labour market acquis or by extending the mandate of the Authority. The risk is obvious that the activities of the proposed European Labour Authority will conflict with the national labour market models. It is strange to hear the unreserved enthusiasm of both the Social Democrats and the Left for something that even the Minister for Labour cannot see the added value of at present. The risk that there will be a cuckoo growing from the 500 million annually announced at the moment is likely – twice tough with an increase in the EU budget being reduced. This, together with the fact that the added value of a new European Labour Authority is not specified or stated in the Commission's proposal and that we do not want a European labour market model, means that we say no to an authority, not just in the subsidiarity test. Already today, there are well-established structures at both national and EU level to address the issues for which the Authority is proposed. I support the proposal in the opinion.
