i-98074f8bc4329de7-2	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report 'Regular simplifications in the field of economic family policy', and I call for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. As mentioned earlier, we are in favour of the report as a whole and welcome the regulatory simplifications which are likely to enter into force on 1 January 2019. Let me briefly mention that in the proposed legal text concerning temporary parental benefit when taking part in a course to learn how to care for the child, the wording is a little difficult to interpret. What is meant is to include the circle of persons that can be equated with a parent. We do not disagree that even these people may need to take part in a course to learn to care for the child, but we feel that the expression We propose a change between parents and both parents, as well as persons who can be treated as a parent for the same child and time, if they take part in a course arranged by a health care officer to learn how to care for the child. Madam President, I would like The proposal that gives both parents an increased opportunity to participate together in maternal care is positive, and we welcome the initiative. However, the previous government proposes that the proposal should apply only 60 days before the expected birth, in other words at the end of the pregnancy, and here we do not agree. The Swedish Democrats have long pushed the question that the father should also receive compensation for participating in a visit to maternity care. We believe that both parents should be given the prerequisite for increased participation in the development of pregnancy as soon as it is confirmed and visits to maternal care begin. Two important ultrasounds take place early in pregnancy. They are not always accompanied by positive news. On these occasions it is particularly important that both parents can be involved in the information provided. It is also usually then that the pregnancy and the expected child or children in some sense become real. Madam President, I would like The previous government points out as a reason for the proposal that social support should be organised in such a way that the conditions for equal parenthood are good and that early warning is given to citizens of the shared responsibility of becoming a parent, which is right. To suggest that the father need not be introduced until the last 60 days is strange by a feminist government. So it is believed that parents should not be jointly supported to visit maternal care during either the first or the second part of the pregnancy, when the two important ultrasounds are made, but only at the end. It is also calculated that several parents will not make use of the opportunity offered by the proposal. We know from experience that prospective parents choose to save their parenting days as much as possible in order to be able to use them together with the newborn child or children. We therefore believe that there has been a mistake and that the proposal is, to a large extent, a blow to the air. Madam President, I would like If we, as Swedish democrats, want parents to be able to participate together in maternity care, it is important that this is made possible in full. In order for this to happen and not to affect the family's finances, we want to give parents the right to apply for a new form of temporary parental allowance from the beginning of their pregnancy. In order to further consolidate this possibility, we believe that from the date of confirmation of the pregnancy, parents should be given the legal right to leave their work for visits to maternity care. In most cases, the employer and the prospective parent agree on leave, but this is not always the case. We are aware that a certain staffing difficulty may arise in the labour market, but we believe that it is not so great as it is usually a limited number of short visits to maternal care. We also stress that parents should reasonably be given the right conditions to decide for themselves whether or not they want to take part in maternity care. Based on this conviction, we suggest that the Riksdag accept our additions that visits to maternity care should take effect from the beginning of pregnancy with temporary parental allowance and statutory right to leave from work.
i-98074f8bc4329de7-20	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Government's proposal to Parliament to adopt the regulatory simplifications proposed in the area of family economic policy. We live in one of the world's most equal countries, but there are still areas of parental insurance that have fallen behind. With this bill there will be changes for the better. There are many proposals in the bill – an entire battery – that make it better and easier for parents, such as parental allowance when visiting maternity care. The Government proposes that parents should be entitled, for the same child and time, to parental benefit in connection with visits to maternity care during a pregnancy. Parental allowance for such visits shall be payable from the 60th day preceding the estimated date of birth of the child until the date of birth. The proposal lays the foundations for equal parenthood and makes it clear that responsibility for a child is already shared during pregnancy. Another suggestion is that a parent should always receive parental benefit to participate in his or her child's education, even if the parent does not have the child in his or her care. It is important that children are given the opportunity to have a safe education in preschool or primary school and that parents can participate to the extent that the child needs. We know that training is an individual process and that different children have different needs. This proposal makes economic family policy more modern and more adapted to the everyday life of a family. The proposal also proposes to be able to receive temporary parental benefit in order to learn to care for the child. Parents should not have to attend different courses to learn how to care for children, but should attend at the same time. We know that it is very difficult today to take care of sick children, especially children with disabilities. A temporary parental allowance provides an opportunity to make it better and easier for these parents. With all the simplifications and proposals contained in the bill, a basis is created for a more equal parenthood and conditions for parents to have more time with their children. I call for the motion of the Swedish Democrats to be rejected, especially the part concerning the introduction of maternal health visits from the first day, which we consider unreasonable. It is more reasonable that it is from the 60th day before the expected birth, since that is when there will be more frequent visits to the maternity care center. With these words, I would like to call for approval of the government proposal.
i-98074f8bc4329de7-28	Madam President, I would like It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. In a Government decision of December 2011, the Government instructs the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to identify simplifications of relevance for the practical handling of matters, both from the point of view of citizens and the authority, in order to make it easier to do the right thing. ..................................................... The Alliance has expressed the view that the detailed rules that are not needed should be removed. Many parents – I am one of them – honestly find it difficult to understand parental insurance in all its different parts. If we also note that the detailed rules that exist also create unnecessary administrative requirements for parents, the measures that ensure that they are removed are more than welcome. The problem is not only that you risk making mistakes, but also, in many cases, that you give up benefits to which you are entitled. These regulatory simplifications are in many ways a win-v in n situation. The work of the Social Insurance Agency is now being simplified, which means that more time can be spent on other things, while making it easier for the individual to do the right thing. It is also likely to lead to an improvement in increasingly weak confidence. Madam President, I would like In the days we were reached by the task that only this year 43 million kroner has been claimed back from parents who have either made mistakes or cheated with vab, the care of sick children. This is a dramatic increase compared to last year, and it has been going on for a long time. It is based on the fact that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is now doing more checks. Subsidy fraud is something really serious. We all understand that abuse and cheating must be addressed, because it is a matter of safeguarding confidence in our welfare system. Otherwise, it is extremely likely to affect those who are in real need of support. If we want to make it easier for parents of young children to be parents of young children, while ensuring that abuse and cheating are curbed and prevented, this is a fine proposal to put on Parliament's table. I'm in favour of it.
