i-8e8704fce62d2624-8	Madam President, I would like The people's willingness to work is the nation's most important asset," said Ernst Wigforss a long time ago. That was true then, and it is a truth that still stands today. Work builds our common prosperity and provides livelihood and community for each of us. Under the Social Democratic-led government, 300 000 more people have had the opportunity to say: I am going to work. Youth unemployment, which appeared to be an almost insoluble problem just four years ago, is now the lowest in 15 years. Employment is the highest ever recorded in an EU country. The time from arrival to establishment in the labour market has fallen sharply. So we have every reason to feel proud, but are we satisfied? Not at all. Unemployment among foreign-born people is still too high. The lack of competence threatens both the quality of welfare and Sweden's competitiveness. And new challenges await. Globalisation, urbanisation, digitalisation, automation and not least the climate threat have already affected and will increasingly affect the labour market. Add to this the demographic changes. It becomes clear that measures for a well-functioning labour market that can ensure good competitiveness, security for individuals and greater equality in the future will be absolutely necessary. In the short and medium term, the task of improving and speeding up the establishment of newcomers, especially among women, is the overriding task. Here, many important reforms have been implemented and are starting to have an impact, but further improvements will be needed. If we lift our eyes slightly, we can see that there are also great tasks in improving the matching and adaptability of the labour market as a whole. In this perspective, the opportunity for education and skills development throughout life will be great and growing, not least for those who already have a job. Through the introduction of the "Knowledgelift", which will fully cover 100,000 training places, the government has shown that it has understood and responded to the challenge. Better coordination between labour market and education policies will also be of great importance, as will a well-functioning employment service. In these areas too, as in the case of the need for systematic validation activities, the government has begun a reform process. The Swedish model, with strong, responsible social partners, has served and served both employees and companies well. It is therefore essential not to make changes that upset the balance of power and thus make it difficult for the parties to conclude agreements that solve problems in the labour market. In the current parliamentary situation, there will be great demands on us as parties to make wise and responsible decisions that improve for both companies and employees, and to ensure that our country stays together with the reduction of gaps between rich and poor, male and female, country and city. It is the voters' expectation of us, and I expect all decent parties to participate constructively and humbly in such work.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-17	Madam President, I would like In 2014, the Social Democracy's biggest promise in terms of jobs was to create 32,000 trainee jobs. The bet's off. I would like to ask Anna Johansson why.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-18	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my speech, youth unemployment in Sweden was sky high in 2014. Trainee jobs were a way to prepare young people for the job market. Then when we saw that young people still got jobs, there was no reason to have a special effort for that particular group. Therefore, it has been chosen to end it and replace it with other, more effective measures for the current needs of the labour market.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-20	Madam President, I would like In other words, does Anna Johansson mean that we have had the support of the economic cycle to solve the problems of the labour market and that this is not due to political reforms?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-21	Madam President, I would like At that time, Anna Johansson believes that the Youth Guarantee has been a contributing factor in the fact that more young people have entered the labour market. Measures have been put in place early in a period of youth unemployment, increased education and much more, which, together with an upturn in the economic cycle, which is, of course, also dependent on political decisions, has contributed to a fall in youth unemployment.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-22	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the President and welcome her to the Presidium of Presidents. We will have many difficult political tasks in the coming years. Then I am thinking not of the formation of government – not at all – but of all the urgent crises that need to be resolved. It is about gang crime, increased healthcare queues, lack of school results, honour problems and many other things that require reform. But I am also thinking of the fact that the economy is going to turn downwards. All the forecasts say that the boom is right now peaking, but it will turn around. How deep the next recession will be and when it comes, none of us know, but we know it's coming. Then all the underlying problems that exist in the economy will be very clear. They are often hidden in a boom. Among other things, it will become clear that the government that has now resigned and is the expeditionist is saved far too little in the barns. There is no government since the 1970s that has saved so little in a boom as this particular government, and it becomes clear in a recession. Even more can be seen if, for example, we are facing a deep financial crisis. Then we will not have the same opportunities as otherwise. I would particularly like to highlight an area in which, over the past four years, we have had a lack of important reforms, which will become even clearer in the next few years, and that is integration. There is a lot that works in Sweden. There are a lot of people who have moved to Sweden in the 70's, 90's or a year ago who have actually come to work. They contribute part of society. But a great many have ended up in social, economic and valuation exclusion. As the economy turns around, this will become increasingly clear. The pressure on the municipalities will increase, and all those who have come to Sweden in recent years and have not come to work will put our systems under pressure in many different ways. We Moderates see that there would have been a need for reforms in the previous parliamentary term. The coming years – and preferably tomorrow – require five important things in order to cope with integration. Firstly, a tight migration policy is needed for many years to come. It matters how many people come to Sweden. That is why temporary legislation needs to be extended. Secondly, we need language requirements. Imagine that Sweden does not have a single requirement to learn Swedish, even though we all know how important it is to learn the Swedish language in order to get into society and into working life. Thirdly, we need to introduce premium ceilings, so that it never pays better for families to be at home than to take a job. Then someone thinks: But it can't be that way, can it? Yes, that's exactly what it is. You can stack contributions on each other so that it actually doesn't pay to go to work. Therefore, we believe that Sweden needs a grant ceiling. Fourthly, we need apprenticeships, where you learn the job at work with a slightly lower salary but you get into the Swedish labour market. In four years this has not been in place. Fifthly, we need to include people in our community of values. When you come to Sweden you have to know what applies here. Everyone should participate in mandatory community information. It should be sharp, so that every girl and woman in Sweden, whether she was born here or somewhere else, should know what rights and obligations – for girls it is often about rights – she has. It must be crystal clear. It's not today. We need reforms. We need them now, and we need them over the next few years to do the task of integration.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-35	Madam President, I would like It was with interest that I noted the values of the Moderates' economic-political spokesman. I very much hope that in her continued work she may be the economic-political spokesman for the Moderates. That's right. She says that we should have saved in the barns when a moderate government borrowed for tax cuts that created unfair distribution outcomes and also deficits in the state budget each year. When you, Elisabeth Svantesson, talk about integration and your policy at the same time hit extremely hard on equality and justice, I say: It is a great measure of equality that creates a large measure of integration.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-38	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments, Peter Persson! I can see that during these four years, in the amazing boom that Sweden has been in, the income gap has increased. They have thus increased over these four years. I just thought I'd do some enlightenment. As an economic-political spokesperson – you can call yourself a man, if you like – I can also say that before the financial crisis we saved 3 1⁄2% of the GDP surplus. Now this government has saved 0.5 percent of the bnp. Those are facts. Sweden is doing well in many ways, and we are not in a very vulnerable situation. But we can see that this government has saved too little. It will affect people in the recession, because the next government will not have the same opportunities for stabilisation policy as would otherwise have been the case.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-41	Madam President, I would like I have a beloved grandchild who has just started in first grade. In the world of mathematics, he has already learned plus and minus. Can you Moderates not admit that the balance of your eight years was minus and that it was plus for four years with a Social Democratic-led government? I can connect you, Elisabeth Svantesson, with my grandson, and he will teach you these questions.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-42	Madam President, I would like I'd love to meet your grandson. And I can say to you, here in Parliament, that during the previous government Sweden suffered a severe financial crisis – perhaps you did not discover – as Sweden did very well. I can also note that the deficit turned into surplus in 2015 with an alliance budget. Now we've had a boom. And yet you've saved too little.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-44	Madam President, I would like I understand and have on a general human level sympathy for the ill-hidden bitterness that emerges from Elisabeth Svantesson. It is about the fact that, after four red-green years, unemployment is significantly lower than in her own time, that the time to enter the labour market for the new arrivals has halved and that deficits have turned into surpluses. I may have sympathy for this. But I'm going to ask you a question that relates directly to what Elisabeth Svantesson said to do. It concerns the issue of community of values, which she mentioned. I did not know exactly what the values were, as Elisabeth Svantesson pointed out. Is it the more moderate core values that it is not so important to sell out public property or, for example, to fuff with taxes? Or is it the more general Swedish values that we should have a well-functioning labour law, strong trade unions and a common strength so that workers will not be humiliated and depressed in their working conditions?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-46	Madam President, I would like I think that Ali Esbati and I could quite easily sit over a cup of coffee and note that there are some values that we are very proud of that Sweden has and that we want everyone to be a part of. I mentioned equality, for example. I think this is a clear issue, which we need to highlight every day here in the Swedish Parliament. When my grandmother and grandmother were born, women didn't have universal suffrage. A lot has happened since then, and I am very happy for all the women who have gone ahead and fought that fight. We see that there are very many girls and women in Sweden today who are not allowed to take part in gender equality and these fruits – quite the opposite. In many places and in many areas in Sweden, gender equality goes backwards. I mean, we can never tolerate that. We must all help – every party in the Swedish parliament and we as individuals – to ensure that, for example, values such as equality and equality are maintained, so that everyone can take part in this.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-49	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear about the interest of the Moderates in gender equality and that the universal suffrage was mentioned, which was a question that the Moderate Party was once formed to counteract. But I still want to take advantage of what Elisabeth Svantesson says about gender equality. Today we have great differences in wages and working conditions between male-dominated and female-dominated professions. Why is it that the Moderates rather want to weaken labour law? I am thinking of the situation in which disproportionately steamed women would suffer.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-50	Madam President, I would like It is nonsense that we want to weaken labour law and the position of women in the labour market. It's just the opposite. I would like to have a longer debate with Ali Esbati on history. We in the Moderates have certainly not always been proud of our history. And I don't think Ali Esbati has much to be proud of. If you're proud of your story, we have a bigger problem.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-51	Madam President, I would like I congratulate you on your role. Sweden needs optimism again. It's a little strange to have to say it in the middle of the boom we're in, but that's the way it is. Sweden needs optimism again. For four long years, the warm winds of the boom have swept the world and Sweden. All of Sweden's most important export markets have gone as a train. The Riksbank has negative interest rates. The crown is exceptionally weak and helps exports. As has been said before, fiscal policy has been anything but moderate. Housing prices have risen to new heights. Households' borrowings have risen to new heights. Yet there is this pessimism. Business is slowing down. Many places around Sweden are standing still. Above all, unemployment is persistently above 6%, at the peak of the boom. There are 360 000 people in unemployment, at the peak of the boom. Barely 80 percent of them, 264,000 people, are in a vulnerable position. More than half, 182,500 people, are born abroad. There are very many children who do not see their parents go to work in the morning, and there is a very clear line between those who are inside and those who are outside. Why? Because the reforms have not been implemented and because Swedish policy has been stagnant. At that standstill, a vacuum emerges, and that vacuum is filled with pessimism and populism. We've stopped thinking that new arrivals can get jobs. We have stopped believing that our mills can be lifted. We have stopped thinking that vulnerable suburbs can be lifted. There is only one way to break this: reforms, reforms, reforms. These are reforms that open up to jobs, reforms that open up to entrepreneurship, reforms that open up to the labour market and reforms that open up employment services. It should be said now that we are faced with major tasks: this is not impossible. Germany has done so. With a little lower apprenticeship wages, mentioned earlier, for those with low education, the gap in employment between native and foreign born has become extremely much smaller than in Sweden. Denmark has done so. With flexicurity, the Danish labour market has shown how to reconcile security in the transition with an open labour market and get many more low-skilled people who do not end up in unemployment. Australia has done so by simply paying for results in job search and releasing the best intermediaries, whether they are private, non-profit or public. By stopping spending money on ineffective government bureaucracy, Australia has been able to help many more unemployed. Falkenberg in Halland has done so. Through football associations, business policy, strong schools and the present police, they have lifted at least one of the vulnerable areas out of vulnerability. Now time is running out. The Institute of Economics warns that the economic cycle is going down. The world's central banks warn that the almost free money – the free liquidity – that has been spread around the world is running out. Around us the nationalist populists whip up protectionism that threatens our exports. Soon, very soon, the prize party and the housing market takeover party may be reversed in their opposite. Soon unemployment may rise again. But we must dare. We must dare to stand up for courageous structural reforms. Then we can reverse the trend. We have necessarily been discussing the structure of the government in this country for a long time, but then we must also get ourselves to discuss the structure of the reforms that are the only thing that can restore hope to Sweden.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-64	Madam President, I would like It is always a pleasure to debate with Martin Ådahl. But let me say as Gunnar Ekelöf, but on the contrary: I live in the same world, but you live in another one. I fully agree with Martin Ådahl that we need more optimism in our country, but I wonder who should feel the optimism Martin Ådahl is talking about. Today, for example, the companies that are going to buy and sell themselves into welfare know some optimism, because they believe that they can get support from the bourgeoisie and the Swedish Democrats to continue with it. But why should those promised even lower wages by the Center Party et consortiums feel optimism? Why should those who have precarious employment feel more optimistic about the fact that there is someone in the Swedish Parliament's pulpit saying that they should have even worse and safer living and working conditions? Martin Ådahl will be happy to answer that.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-68	Madam President, I would like What has created this pessimism and resignation in the boom is that one does not dare to face up to the truth. I am very happy to debate with Ali Esbati, but it is a major problem that we do not see reality in the face. You're talking about lower wages, Ali Esbati. We will open up to those who have no salary. You're talking about vulnerability. We are talking about people who live with tough benefit conditions because it does not enter the labour market. That is vulnerability; that is the problem in the labour market. The risk is that by making it more difficult for companies and raising taxes, you will make it even more difficult to create the jobs that make people come in. Optimism will immediately turn to pessimism if it makes it impossible for companies to create jobs.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-71	Madam President, I would like This has been the sound of employers and their political representatives for a hundred years. As soon as unemployment is seen, it is the fault of the job seekers and workers, because they have too high wages and too good conditions. Here it is promised that they will get jobs in order to reduce their salary – and in reality also the salary of other low-income earners in the same industries. I ask again: why be optimistic about the future when low wages are to be reduced to 70%, as is your proposal?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-73	Madam President, I would like I repeat: the 360 000 people who have no salary cannot have it reduced. If you give some of them the chance to get into apprenticeships for a few years, we will win so much. More fundamentally, one thing needs to be understood: we can never do this unless small businesses can start hiring more people. There's something you need to bring in, Ali Esbati. If we are to be optimistic in our country, small businesses must be optimistic. They hire four out of five people, so it depends very much on them.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-75	Madam President, I would like 99 years ago, eight hours of working day was introduced in Sweden. After decades of union struggles, industrial workers finally went from 16 hours of exhausting jobs to 8 hours. Since then, nothing has happened. Well, in 1971 the five - day week was introduced, and then 40 hours became a normal working week. It was also at some point in the 1970s that the demand for a six-hour working day began to be made. Six hours' working day is a gender equality issue. It removes part-time traps for women because women work part-time more often to have time for children and homes while men always work full-time. On the one hand, it is a solution to unemployment, as reducing working time means that more are needed at work. You can also discuss six hours of work as a quality of life issue. Is the purpose of life really to sit just eight hours a day at the checkout on Ica or at a computer in the office? But 2018 seems six hours working day further away than ever. I wonder why when we know that stress is decreasing, that sickness rates are falling, that in some cases productivity is even increasing and that more people get jobs with six hours of working day. The most common answer I get is that it is a far too expensive reform; Sweden cannot afford it. But that's not true. In fact, six hours' working day costs less than one year's bank profits in Sweden and less than one Nuon deal. So how much is it? Let me take a calculation example. Sweden has many part-time workers, about 1 million. Their wage increase from part-time to full-time wages would cost about 54 billion. The cost of 30 percent new jobs would be 32 billion in round rolls. Thus, the cost of a reduction in working hours with retained pay would be approximately SEK 86 billion. It's a hell of a lot of money, but it's still less than the last government's total tax cut. Is it expensive for employers? 86 billion is an amount that society can deal with through redistribution. For several reasons, however, reduced working hours are not popular with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Measures where the state collects taxes with one hand and gives back with the other are rarely popular with business owners. On the one hand, it limits the freedom of companies and imposes new trade union agreements for overtime and shift. On the other hand, a sharp reduction in unemployment is also likely to result in an increase in wages. However, it is not always the cost of a six-hour working day as such, but the cost to employers when employees become stronger as a group. Most parties here probably say that a good working environment is a prerequisite for good growth in society. However, it is a question of interpretation of what is a good job and what it costs. Already today, many more or less voluntarily work six hours to get their everyday lives together. A reduction in working time would therefore be a reform of freedom, justice and gender equality. More women would have the opportunity for economic independence. How can we afford not to introduce such a reform?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-87	Madam President, I would like The Left party Ciczie Weidby spent a great deal of time talking about equality and women's opportunities to participate fully in the world of work. However, you have a strange approach to the RUT reform, which was introduced in 2009 by the Alliance Government. It is a reform that has paved the way for several thousand companies to be set up, not least by women. 30 000 new jobs have been created, and an entire industry has turned white. Many women have got their first job with safe conditions. In the name of equality, why do you want to constantly restrict the labour market and remove the carpet for those women who have been working for the first time?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-90	Madam President, I would like I thought I was talking about six hours of work, but we can certainly talk about subsidies. The bourgeois side wants to reduce the contributions as much as possible, but it clearly does not apply to RUT. Let us say why it is so important that society's resources should go to those who already have money so that they can make deductions.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-91	Madam President, I would like I can also talk about reducing working time. This is a restriction which mainly affects women who may be going down in working time but who, at the same time, would have to work as much. I think it is a major restriction on women's freedom. Let me go back to the RUT reform. I understand that you and I have a huge difference in the view of what is job-creating reforms. The RUT reform has, of course, contributed to 30 000 being able to go to work. You can ask those women who have actually received a job and a living if they think it is a contribution from society when you have a job to go to.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-93	Madam President, I would like I usually talk to those women who are already stressed in home care and home care — nurses who have too few colleagues, hunt hours and try to earn a salary that they can live on. I would much rather talk to women who have tried to reduce working hours. They feel that both stress and sick leave are decreasing. I'd much rather talk about it.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-94	Madam President, I would like I too would like to congratulate you on this important task. Those who have built this country, who have struggled for decades and contributed to our welfare, should have a good time as they get older. It means a lot to them and also to their relatives. We know that 27 per cent of the population is over 65 years of age and that 1.7 per cent of this Parliament represents them. 6 out of 349 members are over 65, despite the fact that older people are an increasing number in society. And the Social Democrats, the largest party, do not have a single Member over 65 years of age. Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live in as a pensioner, at least if you feel good and are satisfied with life. But year - old people are not a uniform group. There are those who fight every day to raise bread and turn every penny around. Women, in particular, are guarantee pensioners. This is because they have been at home and have taken great responsibility for children, households and families. They have been involved in this service in creating secure citizens of society. But the financial result of their contribution is a very low pension. It's not fair at all! We Christian Democrats have long fought for those who have taken this responsibility to have adequate compensation, both in carrying out their duties and then as pensioners. Madam President, I would like Housing allowance for pensioners, BTP, is a basic financial protection and part of the pension system. The Christian Democrats want to see the housing supplement for pensioners raised substantially. However, some 100 000 pensioners, who would actually be entitled to the BTP, do not apply for it. I met a woman in the election campaign who told me that she had received information that she could apply for BTP. She did so and now has 2,000 more to move with every month. However, 100 000 people who could receive this grant are not looking for this, so there is a need for improved marketing and, furthermore, a substantial increase. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, it is important to close the tax gap between pension and earned income. The Alliance, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats, reduced the tax on pensioners five times and by over 16 billion during its period in government and with emphasis on the lowest pensions. There is a need for a further reduction in the level of taxation imposed on pensioners. The 40s generation is now entering retirement. This means that people are already missing in many workplaces, not least in health care. Our new pension system, introduced in the early 2000s, is much more linked to work than before. For the system to work in the future, we need to increase the retirement age. The Christian Democrats support the Pension Group's proposal to increase the early retirement age from 61 years and the late retirement age from 67 to 69 years, linked to life expectancy. In other words, this means that every worker who is able, wants and can have the opportunity to work for a few more years.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-104	Madam President, I would like I heard Roland Utbult worried that there is no one over 65 in the Socialist parliamentary group. Then I'd like to tell Roland Utbolt that in a year and a half I'll be making an entrance in that area, so it's safe. You and I are both experienced, and sometimes memory is crystal clear – the first kiss. But sometimes you forget the latest button pressure here in Parliament. After all, it was you who five times pressed for the gap between wage income and pension income. It was KD who fixed this. I turned down the times I had the chance. This is the story behind the pensioner's tax and your great debt.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-106	Madam President, I would like Who would have thought Peter Persson was about to turn 65? I say, "Welcome over the hills!" Your perspectives will increase and your insights as well. Perhaps Peter Persson will also embrace Christian Democratic ideas like Stefan Löfven embraces Angela Merkel when he meets her. He hasn't embraced me when he got out of there, but maybe he will eventually. I have described how we reduced the tax on pensioners by 16.5 billion during our time. I just want to state that we are a party that has been fighting for many years for pensioners to have a better financial situation and that we want to close the gap between employees and pensioners. As we put it, we want to abolish the pensioner's tax. That is our policy. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that both we and the younger people are needed in our society. We need each other.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-109	Madam President, I would like Roland Utbolt means generously that with my growing experience I shall approach Christian Democratic values. Sometimes I find your story a little interesting when you refuse to take a stand between the right and the left. But you who are from the west coast know what a right-winger means, and today you cry in the mission churches over your evolution.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-110	Madam President, I would like I find myself in missionary churches quite often and have not heard that cry, but perhaps Peter Persson has done so. That the social passion that has existed and which I still believe exists in the Social Democracy would sound along with the passion that exists in the Christian Democrats, I believe, in fact. I would be a little surprised if our Prime Minister, when he comes from Germany, does not continue to have a certain conversation with us.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-113	Madam President, I would like I want to talk about equality. It is a theme that I will return to many times in the coming years in this House, because Swedish equality does not apply to all women in Sweden today. We have a proud tradition of women's rights, and liberals have always been at the forefront of the barricades of important gender equality reforms throughout history. The introduction of equal voting rights, the abolition of co-taxation, the fight for free abortion, earmarked months in parental insurance and the introduction and expansion of childcare are some reforms that carry liberal significance and have paved the way for women's freedom in Sweden. Despite the fact that we are in a very strong boom, there are great differences between the employment of natives and foreign-borns. The group that stands out most and is furthest away from the labour market are women born outside Europe's borders. Madam President, I would like SEK 37 billion — so much would public finances increase if foreign - born women were to get to work as much as domestic women. In addition, Sweden's GDP would increase by 1.5 percentage points, and unemployment would fall by just over 1 per cent. 37 billion would be enough, for example, to finance the entire police and the judiciary in Sweden. But this revenue is lost by the state because of a policy that does not include foreign-born women. There's a lot of untapped potential in that group. Removing the obstacles that stand in the way of women in our suburbs entering the labour market is the greatest labour market challenge of our time and, unfortunately, the biggest failure of the feminist government. Of course, the government has paid attention to the problems in recent years, but unfortunately the solutions have revolved around labour market programmes and low performance education. Women have been the biggest losers in the failed integration policy, and they have been seen as helpless victims in their new home country. But let me make one thing clear: These women are strong individuals and have amazing indwelling powers, but they rarely get the chance to show off. I know this because my mother is one of these strong women. It is thanks to her that I am standing in this House today, and I promise that I will not leave a single stone untouched when it comes to more women being able to get to work. Many women who come to Sweden have to take a big responsibility to stay home with the children. The misplaced goodwill has contributed to the fact that the culture of honour has strengthened its grip on our vulnerable areas. This is something we must never accept in this House. In order to get away from this, we need to change the benefit systems and enable foreign-born women to quickly learn Swedish and get into the labour market, so that more people get the freedom and independence of their own pay. Madam President, I would like I usually say that if you integrate a woman, you integrate a whole family. If we do not succeed in integrating women, exclusion will persist and segregation will continue, and unfortunately this will contribute to the legacy of traditions that do not belong in a modern and equal Sweden to the next generation. What is at stake for me as a liberal and feminist is that women and men must have the same chances of life, the same opportunities to become their own, the same opportunities to enter the labour market and the same opportunities for economic independence. This is something I will come back to. We will ensure that Swedish gender equality reaches all women in this country. No one should be left out, and no one should be isolated.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-122	Madam President, I would like When we took over power in 2014, we also took over a labour market with great concern: a high structural unemployment with increasing long-term unemployment, a record youth unemployment rate and a job agency that was driven to the bottom after being treated as a detailed experimental workshop. Since day one, the Red-Green Social Democratic-led government has re-established labour market policy with a focus on matching, training and flexibility. We have removed phase 3 from your mandate – an inefficient system that forced those furthest from the labour market into a dead end. Now the long-term unemployed have a chance to enter the labour market. They benefit from measures that equip them for work, such as training and additional services. Extra services are a tool that can give both newcomers and the long-term unemployed a way into the labour market. In May 2018, there were over 15,000 additional services around the country. Through additional services, municipalities, county councils and private actors within the welfare sector have the opportunity to get an additional resource that can support the business. Extra services are a much smarter way to get people into work than a meaningless life in phase 3. Madam President, I would like We also abolished the establishment slot system. It was the major labour market reform and hope of the previous government to get more new arrivals into work. Looking back, we can easily see that this neo-liberal experiment also became a major political fiasco. A clear example of this was a company in Växjö that received SEK 13.2 million from Arbetsförmedlingen, mainly to arrange jobs for newly arrived refugees. For SEK 13.2 million, the company arranged a job! Several of the pilot companies' owners have become wealthy millionaires on tax revenue, and every job that these pilots have produced has cost SEK 2.5 million. Strong criticism of the pilot system has been directed by, among others, the Swedish National Audit Office, which considered the system to be expensive and ineffective. Another issue that we also dealt with was restoring employers' contributions for young people and putting a stop to a general measure that was not effective. This reform had been tested since 2007, and there was no reason to continue with it. It was an expensive and inefficient reform, and the few jobs it created cost the equivalent wage cost of three to four employees per new job. But the notes from the other side were rather that the reform should be maintained at all costs, regardless of the results. More attention was paid to the accounting balance of the hamburger chain, Max, than to the actual performance of the unemployed youth. Instead of taking on the facts from independent institutes, the right wing chose to plow millions of dollars to shoot down the proposals that could really reduce youth unemployment. Madam President, I would like This was a sample of the right-wing government's so-called work line. Against this, my colleague Anna Johansson has previously presented social democratic policy and the consequences of this policy: we have 300 000 more going to work, of which 200 000 are born abroad, the establishment of newcomers is faster and women born abroad show a clear decline in unemployment. New arrivals are moving faster and faster to get to work. In the past, it has taken ten years to establish itself, but now time is reduced by half.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-130	Madam President, I would like I feel a little bit like we're still in the election campaign. It is fascinating with Social Democrats who are still talking about the alliance years, but now it is the Social Democrats and the Green Party that have been running this country for four years, in a fiery boom. How do you explain the fact that long-term unemployment has increased, Serkan Köse, and that there are more enrolled at the Swedish Public Employment Service today, after the most amazing boom that Sweden has had in many years? How can it be that long-term unemployment has increased? I have one more question, Madam President, which I shall take this opportunity to ask. There can be many comments on phase 3. You closed it, Serkan Köse, but the problem now is that very many of those who left phase 3 have nothing to do today. Are you happy with that?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-133	Madam President, I would like Long-term unemployment has decreased. When we look at the employment rate, we see that it is the highest since it began to be measured – the highest in 25 years. We have many people enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. We had a refugee wave of 163 000 people who came to Sweden in 2015, and many of them signed up for Arbetsförmedlingen. Many who have been long-term unemployed now have the opportunity to enter the labour market, not least through additional services, start-up jobs and so on. With regard to the discussion on phase 3, I can say that it was a failed project that locked many people into a system that did not lead anywhere. Instead of that, we have, as I said, additional services, which mean that you get contractual pay, decent conditions and a real job.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-136	Madam President, I would like A basic principle is to have a degree of humility in the face of the problems that exist. There are more long-term entries at the Public Employment Service today than before, despite the booming boom, and there have been no reforms for that group. Supplementary services can certainly benefit some people – absolutely – but the fact remains that many long-term unemployed are not taking any action now. The results of the additional services show that around 100 people have gone into unsubsidised jobs. Each such job costs SEK 30 million. Are you Social Democrats satisfied with the cost and outcome?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-138	Madam President, I would like Many people have gone to our country, which I think is fantastically good. Then it has taken time to take care of the people who have applied to Sweden, to create the conditions to make them employable so that they can get a meaningful job. The work is ongoing and will continue. I hope that the work will continue in the next government, which means giving priority to those women and people who are far from the labour market and creating the conditions for and equipping them for the jobs that exist.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-140	Madam President, I would like I devoted almost all of my speech to talking from a labour market perspective about the gender challenges we face, not least with regard to the group of women born abroad who are furthest away from the labour market. Serkan Köse devoted his speech to talking about how everything has improved since you took over government power in 2014. Can you then explain to me how it is that you have not succeeded with the group that perhaps most of all would need to get into real work? Why is it that in some places only 30% of foreign-born women are in employment? How come you haven't managed to create more jobs? Of course, the extra services can serve a purpose, but they are expensive, ineffective and do not lead to real jobs. They create displacement effects. I would like to hear Mr Serkan reflect on the group of women born abroad.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-144	Madam President, I would like Let me first make a statement on the discussion of extra services. They should not have any evasive effects; they are an agreement with the union on real jobs, real wages and real workplaces. Then there was the discussion about women who are far from the labour market. I can delight Gulan Avci by reading from the latest issue of the South Side. It shows that women take over the cleaning in the entire Botkyrka. Many women who have been long-term unemployed have been employed, not least in my own municipality in the municipal housing company Botkyrkabyggen. I've met many of these women. It is about cleaning the stairwells, which creates security and order in the area. It also gives women the opportunity for economic independence. I fully agree with Gulan Avci that women need to be financially independent in order for them to become independent in society.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-148	Madam President, I would like Early in the year, the Employment Service flagged an increase in unemployment rates. This ignored the government. At the time, a forecast showed that the unemployment benefit needed to be increased so that those who were in the scheme would receive their benefits. But this was not listened to by the government, but a lot of labour market policy measures were pumped in instead. Now we see the consequences of people not getting their compensation by the end of the year. How does Serkan Serkan think about this?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-150	Madam President, I would like Labour market policy is incredibly important for women and the groups we are talking about to have the opportunity to become employable and have a meaningful job. I agree with Gulan Avci on the discussion that is about ensuring that the conditions continue to be created for the whole, not least for those people who are far from the labour market, in terms of fair compensation and proper conditions.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-152	Madam President, I would like Right now, as many have said, the economy is good. It's been a boom for years. We know for sure that after the boom comes recession. None of us can say when, but we know it will come. We believe that the boom has been wasted because the red-green government has not dared to take hold of important structural reforms that Sweden so badly needs. It will be costly once the economy turns around. The area of integration has been an important part of today's debate. We have seen that reforms in this area have shone with their absence. The fact that there has been a boost in the economy is due to the fact that there has been a good economic upturn. Nevertheless, the government has chosen to raise taxes by 60 billion. Central government expenditure has increased by SEK 100 billion. Although the boom has been strong, welfare has deteriorated and security has been eroded. We see growing integration problems. We see that many are outside the Swedish labour market. Many people get jobs, but many are outside the Swedish labour market. It's not temporary, it's permanent. It's life-long. We know that the number of registered employees at Arbetsförmedlingen has increased. We also know that Arbetsförmedlingen is struggling with a lot of worries and problems. Arbetsförmedlingen is called Arbetsförmedlingen but should perhaps change jobs because you do not convey jobs. The credibility of the employment services is low both with them to employ and with those who are unemployed. During this term of office, the government should have prioritised and implemented important structural reforms, including in the labour market. The fact that the government has not saved enough in the economic boom means that we are less equipped to take action when the economic cycle turns. Elisabeth Svantesson stated earlier that no government has saved as little during the boom as the current government. The structural reforms that we believe would have been necessary include strengthening the driving forces for work. The fact that as many people as possible are working is crucial for what prosperity and prosperity will exist in the future. Working must always pay off. It's easy to say, but it's hard to do. We believe that this government has not given priority to work but rather to grants. A better matching function is needed. Unfortunately, the government has contributed to delaying the investigation work on changes to the Public Employment Service. Arbetsförmedlingen has received the assignment but has not delivered. We believe that this has a significant impact on labour market policy. There's a whole series of failures we could list. The government has set targets, including Sweden's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. There's two years left. What has happened is a setback, and Sweden has slipped down to place 17 from place 12. We know that the reform proposed would be all-encompassing so that unemployment would fall and people far from the labour market would get into it. The additional services have been both expensive and ineffective. It is calculated on sums of SEK 30 million per job that has been mediated. We believe that this labour market policy has not been successful, and we believe that Sweden needs a new government.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-163	Madam President, I would like Now we have heard several Moderates talk about that there has been a boom and that there will be worse times. It could be. But if you know your economic history, you can see that, in principle, since the introduction of universal suffrage, the economic policies of the few bourgeois governments have coincided with worse times. Now it's not certain it's going so bad. We'll see what happens to the formation of government. But I hear people talk about us wasting the boom. It has thus been squandered by spending on welfare and by ensuring that unemployment is reduced, that the pensioner's tax is reduced, that we have more people in work and that the unemployment insurance that you were shooting has been repaired. What waste does Jessica Polfjärd think is the worst?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-167	Madam President, I would like It's a bit like having a talent and not using it, and that's exactly what the government has done: you haven't used the opportunity that has actually been available to surf the boom. What we know is that what is difficult is even more difficult in recession. As far as integration is concerned, I do not think that any reforms have been delivered from this government in order for people to get into work from exclusion. I would say that what has been neglected most in these years is that there has not been a single reform of integration.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-169	Madam President, I would like It is a bit of an uphill debate against someone who so flagrantly ignores facts and statistics. The time for entering the labour market, for example, has been halved for those who come from outside. I think this puts who you have as a political subject in perspective. What you did during your time, during both economic boom and recession, was to lower the tax no matter what – whatever happened – and obtain a deficit in the Swedish state's finances. So is this the opposite of waste?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-171	Madam President, I would like I believe that Ali Esbati and I may never have a common perception of reality. What we saw under the alliance government, however, was that we were given more resources and that more people went to work, and if Ali Esbati does not think I am answering the question correctly, it is well because he expects another answer. After all, the Moderates have a different view of what needs to be done, and so I see, among other things, the integration challenge as something that has been lost during this period. We are still seeing people excluded, and I do not think that Ali Esbati can be satisfied with the government that has sat when we see this.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-173	Madam President, I would like I note that for a moderate, it always takes more money for rich people to get incentives, while it takes less money in their wallets for poor people to get driving forces. I myself was a municipal politician for many of the years that the alliance government ruled, and I can say that for welfare it was eight years lost. Now there are 100,000 more people working in welfare. We have continued to face major challenges that we will have to address, and it will not be tax cuts that solve these challenges. Jessica Polfjärd rightly notes that a boom in general is followed by a recession. The failure of the bourgeois government was to prepare people for a cyclical upturn during the recession. In other words, it failed to put people into education and meaningful activities that could shorten the period of exclusion. My question, therefore, is whether the Moderates are prepared to reconsider this position in the face of the next recession?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-177	Madam President, I would like I think we would have been in a completely different position as a nation and country if the alliance government had not carried out the reforms that it actually did. We had been less equipped for the historical recession that we were going into, and we had had completely different conditions for coming quite dry out of that recession, which we actually did. Yes, we feel that education is important, and we think it is important to prepare ourselves for recession. This government has said that it is investing in education, but the result is different. Fewer students now than in 2014, and the proportion of job seekers leaving the Employment Service for studies has barely increased, but remains on the same figures as before. The desire to be a government that invests in knowledge has not proved itself, and I believe that there is every reason for the Social Democrats to be a little self-critical. The reforms that have been proposed and implemented have not produced results, and I think we can be honest and say that.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-180	Madam President, I would like In a situation where there are many job vacancies in the economy, fewer students are studying. It's nothing unique for this period. What I asked was whether the Moderates intend to stick to their policy from the previous recession or whether they are prepared to reconsider it. Do you want to increase the number of training places and offer people the opportunity to overwinter and to get back stronger into the labour market when it takes off again? Last time, the opposite was done: the number of training places was reduced and people were put into pointless measures, which meant that we are now in a situation where the matching of the Swedish labour market is extremely poor.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-183	Madam President, I would like I can agree with Anna Johansson on the last point, namely that we have a matching problem. It's not working today. We see that there are job vacancies and people who are unemployed, but they do not meet halfway. There is a great need. We know that half a million employees need to be recruited for welfare by 2026. This is the biggest challenge of welfare: getting competent staff to seek and work in welfare services in the future. This has not been prepared by the government. There are not enough people who apply for this type of training, and here too they have failed.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-185	Madam President, I would like I spoke the other day to an electrician who was concerned that low-wage competition from Eastern Europe now seemed to have hit him too. He had a picture that the electrical jobs had been a little protected from this, perhaps because you need some certificates and that there are a little higher demands on the language than in some other jobs. His experience from the constructions he had been on was that it was above all flatteners, painters, carpenters and others who had suffered this competition. But now it seems that the electricians are also affected. So it is a question of competing for jobs with Eastern European workers from, for example, Poland, who bill perhaps a few hundred crowns an hour. Moreover, these people often value in Eastern European countries, so it is not only a question of competing with lower wages but also of competing with lower taxes. We have seen for a number of years how Swedish truck drivers have lost their jobs for the same reason. It is competition from countries in Eastern Europe. Last time we read about Slovak truck drivers who come here and work for maybe $2,500 a month. You drive clean domestic transport in Sweden, against certain rules. Nor do you always follow the rules on daily rest, which means that you simply compete out of the Swedish haulage industry. Another acquaintance of mine has a small painting company. He tells me that in principle he does not get any jobs in private individuals anymore. It's been a long time. When they request a quote from him, he sends out a price proposal. A few days later, he gets feedback, and they ask him how he is up to twice as expensive as the competitor. Why is it that he needs to charge twice as much for the same work as the competing firm? The answer to that question is that he hires Swedish painters who he treats according to Swedish conditions and pays Swedish salaries. What happens then is that he does not stand up to competition. Madam President, I would like Right now, we're in a boom. It makes it more forgiving. There are more jobs, and it is easier to operate this type of activity despite competition. But what happens when the economic cycle folds? Which firms are going to have to close down when we enter a recession? It will of course be the Swedish companies. What employees will have to be laid off when we enter a recession? They are, of course, the Swedish employees, because they are more expensive. If it were not for these people who work and pay their taxes in Sweden, there would be no resources at all for us in here to discuss the distribution of. It is therefore time for us to start taking their problems seriously, and we need to do so while there is still time. We cannot wait until the recession has come to an end, but we need to do it now. What we need to do is to say that in Sweden there should be fair competition, Madam President. We need to say that in Sweden Swedish conditions will apply.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-192	Madam President, I would like This obscene attempt on the part of the Swedish democrats to flirt with wage earners who are threatened with unfair competition is, of course, only a big hoax. With regard to the haulage industry and the conditions for lorry drivers, the European Parliament proposed that it would be the national collective agreements that would apply to all procurement of activities. The Swedish Democrats voted against. There is not a single occasion in this House when the Swedish Democrats have supported an employee-friendly proposal. On the contrary! Social security funds, labour law – right through you are against Swedish employees, but you can find your way to industry's various organisations.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-195	Madam President, I would like I can inform Peter Persson of such an opportunity. During the previous term of office, the Social Democrats, or rather the Red-Green Government, put forward a proposal on how it would be done when public activities would make procurements. The original Social Democratic proposal wanted collective agreements to apply to procurements – but only to Swedish companies. The posted workers from Eastern Europe would be exempted from these rules, which would mean a further burden on Swedish companies and would make it even more difficult for Swedish companies and Swedish employers to win public contracts while the low-wage workers in Eastern Europe in particular would benefit even more. It is a betrayal of Swedish workers.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-197	Madam President, I would like Everyone knows that on that occasion the Social Democratic-led government was unable to put forward the proposal it wanted. Who would we have trusted? On the Swedish Democrats, a party that is as reliable as the fact that there is always sunshine in Scotland in the summer?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-198	Madam President, I would like I understand if this is boring to hear. What happened was that because we did not intend to support a proposal that would put Swedish workers at a disadvantage, the Social Democrats had to withdraw that proposal and put forward a new one that meant that the same rules would apply to Swedish and posted workers. Thanks to us, the rules have not deteriorated for Swedish workers. If the Social Democrats had got what they wanted, it would have been even more unfair competition. That's actually the truth, Peter Persson. That's the way it is.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-199	Madam President, I would like It is all too typical that when the Swedish Democrats talk about small business – I also meet many small businessmen; they are electricians and painters and carpenters – it is always about someone who comes from abroad. I'll tell you, Henrik Vinge, when I meet small businessmen in Sweden they just want a level playing field. We're all fighting for that. Above all, however, they are concerned about the increasing amount of taxes and charges, rules and hassle that the government has imposed on them over the last four years. And you are often quite helpful in introducing these complicated, aggravating rules. Moreover, it is easier to talk about foreign competition than about the big holes that you have in your budget – holes of over 20 billion, which will mean that you on your side at all cannot choose between lower taxes for small businesses and the increased subsidies that you constantly promise to introduce.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-202	Madam President, I would like It was a little sweeping criticism from the Center Party. But perhaps also pleasing, because if it is the case that the Center Party also wants us to have fair competition and a level playing field in Sweden, we may have a common touch point here. I can also see that part of the problem lies in the fact that Swedish companies have disadvantages in terms of tax rates, regulatory problems and such things. Perhaps there is also a point of contact. Who knows? There may even be some positive reforms we could agree on. But it is based on the fact that the Center Party likes to talk to us about this.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-204	Madam President, I would like I think that's exactly what I'm doing right now. However, you want to take Sweden out of the EU. You're telling me there might be a recession. It can come much faster if you get what you want and take our country out of Europe. We in Sweden may have many companies coming to us, but our companies are out in Europe. They are at every moment, every minute that we stand here, dependent on that market being open to them – for everyone's well-being. You want to stop that. You want to take Sweden out of that, at enormous cost.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-206	Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the problems that has led to the Centre Party's failure to put in place a level playing field in government is that it has not dared to make demands on the European Union. In order to enter into a negotiation and demand that the European Union must respect and safeguard the interests of Swedish employees, we must dare to say that, if we cannot get anything through, then we will leave the table. The Center Party is not prepared to do that, and that is why it will never succeed in the negotiations on this.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-208	Madam President, I would like First of all, I must say that it is good to see the President of the European Parliament on the first occasion in his post. I'm going to talk about child poverty, because it's something that hurts me very much. It affects me badly when children are in poverty, and I and the Center Party want us to do something about this. What happens when children are excluded? This is done if you live under extremely tight economic conditions, when no one cares for you or believes in your future, and when you as a child do not believe in life. It can cause mental problems that you have with you for the rest of your life. Save the Children explained here that child poverty has actually fallen in Sweden. That's good. But the gap is widening between those who have good finances and those who do not. There are more single people, more people without jobs and more people with foreign background who do not have good economics. Then it is those we must focus on, and we must do so quickly. For nothing is happening now, yes, what will the future carry for their soon - grown children? There are several different factors involved, and we need to see them. That's what's important. Here, the left-wing Social Democratic Government has failed in its four years, for it is about gender equality, among other things. It is about entrepreneurship and jobs, and it is not least about carrots directly to children and young people. This is something the Social Democratic left-wing government has not wanted to see. It hurts me, because it's about shared parental leave. This means that you should have it even when you are single with children – you should share parental leave as much as when living together. It is also a question of not contributing to the fact that the person you live with gets part-time work. It's usually the woman. Of course, she should also have a higher salary. It is also about being able to start and run businesses. It should be easier to run a business. We shall facilitate by simplifying the regulatory framework and ensuring the functioning of the security systems. This is very much true of women who want to start a business. What has the government still in office done for this? For example, the law on freedom of choice is RUT and LOV. In these areas, women start businesses. There, however, the government that is still in place wants to do nothing. No, it'd rather not exist. It means that women get worse and cannot have a good economy. It is also about the importance of getting your first job. Here it is about exclusion and that we should ensure that we eliminate employers' contributions during the first two years for those who have got their first job. We in the Center Party think this is important. It would make it easier for these people to gain a better income. They get a lower salary, but it's higher than the allowance they get if they don't have a job. It's important to learn at work. Why is the Social Democratic Government opposed to this when it makes it easier to make poverty for children much less?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-218	Madam President, I would like I'm going to go into the same subject a little bit. Last week Save the Children presented their recurring statistics on children living in financial vulnerability. It notes that child poverty decreases in Sweden by about half a percentage point. At the same time, it is deeply worrying that there are still as many as 186 000 children living in financial vulnerability. It can also be noted that already vulnerable groups are further marginalised and the gaps continue to increase. Economic inequality has increased in several Western countries. Sweden is no exception – quite the opposite. In fact, Sweden is the OECD country where economic inequality has increased most since the mid-1980s. As gaps increase, a large group of people, including children, are also left behind. Inequality is clearly visible on the map of Sweden. The money is located in the centre, in the big cities and in the city centres. At the same time, abandoned rural areas, agricultural sites, suburbs and neighbourhoods are left behind. Of the ten richest municipalities in Sweden, there are eight in Stockholm County. All ten poorest people are in rural areas. A major contributory factor to this is the development of the tax system. Another major contributory factor is growing capital income and their concentration. During the period 1998-2008, Sweden has gone from one of the countries whose tax systems are most favourable to having the least redistributive tax system among the EU's core countries. Sweden is today one of the very few countries that have no tax on either inheritance, gifts or wealth and that do not have a property tax that is linked to the value of taxation. The changes that have taken place are a major factor in the significant reduction in the levelling-up effects of the Swedish tax system. Billionaires can pay a smaller share of tax than ordinary workers, and they can get huge amounts back through deductions. The Left Party believes that the welfare state should equalize injustices and should never distribute money from people with ordinary incomes to the very richest. That is why we want to change the tax system but also to review all deductions that redistribute money to those with the highest income. This concerns the interest deduction, which moves many billions to those with the highest income. This also applies to the RUT deduction. Instead, we want to invest in an extended home service for the elderly and for families with special needs. The ROT deduction has given homeowners the possibility of private reconstruction. Now it must be the tenants' turn. We want to invest in mobilizing the commons around the country. Madam President, I would like As long as the tax system is rigged for the richest, inequality will increase. Everyone talks about the need for a new tax reform. I agree. Let us talk about a tax reform in which we increase taxes on capital income and wealth and lower taxes on low and middle income earners. Then we can also strengthen a welfare that is able to provide all people with good health care and education, good growing conditions and safe old age. Sweden should have a tax system that contributes to an economy that is good for everyone and not just for a few.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-226	Madam President, I would like I think this is extremely important. We have just heard that it is very important to redistribute revenue. But having an income is the most important thing. That is why I wonder why the Left Party is against RUT and LOV, which enables women to gain income by running companies themselves, also in sectors where people coming from other countries – not least women, but also men – have easy access to work. Why are you opposed to investing in what could give more jobs and which would also help more people to earn their own income?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-227	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, we want the welfare state to make up for injustice. It has to do with labour law, but also with work in general. But we don't want money to be distributed from people with regular income to the rich. That's how the tax system is rigged today. In answer to the question, we believe that fiscal policy should support work, not least in the underfunded welfare. That is also why we need this form of tax exchange, because we do not need any more cuts. In the case of child poverty, for example, these children live in areas where cutting policies have hit hardest.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-230	Madam President, I would like Tax policy is an important element. It is therefore important how taxes and our general expenditure are distributed. That is what this is all about. If we in the Center Party propose, for example, to reduce employers' contributions for entrepreneurs in order for them to be able to hire people who have not had a job, why do you say no to that?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-231	Madam President, I would like We don't always say no to that. But above all, we want to invest in welfare. Why should not the people you are talking about, Solveig Zander, have greater opportunities for education and work in the welfare field but also have the opportunity to learn what they want to do? Our welfare policy is also about people simply getting into work.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-233	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want Sweden to be a country of opportunity, where people are given the opportunity to shape their lives, improve their situation and actually realise their dreams. We believe that such a society is best built from below by strong families with time for children and good values. But too many people in our country are being held back because of high taxes and a rigid labour market. We are currently in a boom, as many people have jobs. But the boom does not last forever, and we are facing a historic challenge of integration. Many people have come to Sweden in a short time, but too few have quickly entered the labour market and become part of Swedish society. This is partly due to the level of education of many of those who have come here, but it is also due to our high entry wages and the rigid labour market. There is now a huge need for jobs with low or only basic training requirements for us to complete integration and for Sweden to stick together. Instead, we see parallel communities of exclusion spreading and how Sweden has one of the biggest employment gaps across the EU between native and foreign born. It would take 100 000 so-called simple jobs to even out the employment gap, but the high entry wages in Sweden mean that this type of job has largely disappeared. This, of course, is not good enough. In order for more adults in Sweden to get a job to go to and for more children to see their parents go to work, more jobs are now needed that more people can compete for. We Christian Democrats therefore want to reduce the risk and cost of hiring by allowing lower entry wages, in the form of entry jobs. We want to reduce employers' contributions and reform the Employment Protection Act to give more people the chance of a job. We also want the Swedish Parliament to vote for a bourgeois government that is pursuing a policy for more jobs and a world-class business environment.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-238	Madam President, I would like I was going to stick to the value and weight of the work environment. We can say that we have had four very successful years when it comes to working environment work in Sweden. Today, we have about 5 million people employed who go to a job every morning, and they should of course be protected in terms of the working environment. What has happened in the years we have had a red-green government is that we have worked with security in employment, participation, good work environment, equality and equality and lifelong learning. These are the foundations we have had in the modern work environment strategy, which has been adopted for the period 2016-2020. There are three priority areas. With regard to the zero vision of fatal accidents and the prevention of accidents at work, it is a battle that we must win every day. There are still regular reports that there have been deaths in the working environment. There's a death where a father, a son, or a brother... or whoever it is... doesn't come home from work at night. This is about a sustainable working life, which means that you should be able to work until you become a pensioner. You're supposed to be able to get all the way through. It is also about the psychosocial working environment. We see today that many are being knocked out. What has happened in these years is that we have invested money and resources in order for this to be implemented. We have strengthened the Swedish Work Environment Authority with 100 new occupational health and safety inspectors. We have expanded occupational health care. We have started a national centre for the collection and dissemination of knowledge about research results on the working environment, which is located in Gävle. We have made it more difficult to stack fixed-term contracts on each other, because working time is also an important part of creating a good working environment. We have got loose on full-time as the norm in the labour market, and I am thinking, above all, of the public sector. There are also studies in progress on other parts of the time taken out, and I am thinking, above all, of planing and sharing. We have also made it clear that we want to remove the general fixed-term employment, and we have created contact between different authorities for harder action against working life crime. This is part of what has happened during the parliamentary term that has passed, but also what we want to continue with in the current period. I now sincerely hope that we will have a government constellation that will protect the working environment, safeguard working life and, to the greatest extent, safeguard the good work.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-246	Madam President, I would like It's Tuesday. It is also in the country's emergency departments, where the manager at the afternoon coffee shop asks which of the specialist nurses can join the weekend sessions this weekend. Autumn colds have struck, and in addition to staff flight and staff shortages, sickness cases make it difficult to get weekend sessions together. This is a very common question around many of the country's emergency departments, where the core of welfare – the employees – are expected to be there and enough for a little more. They're expected to work extra hours and work a little more. Precisely these key groups in the core of welfare are often made up of women. They're the ones who get the questions, can you do some more work? Can you do it? Many have professions that are a calling, and many times they are of course there. But does it pay, Madam President, to stand up – to make an effort and to value Friday's love with family and children less than the need for someone to work a little extra? Madam President, I would like The outgoing Social-Democratic Government has pursued a tax-enhancing policy. Taxes have been increased by EUR 60 billion and public expenditure by EUR 100 billion. Nevertheless, we are facing major challenges at the core of welfare – staff flight and staff shortages. Many of Sweden's faithful servants in the core of welfare have also been affected by tax increases policy as they now count as high-income recipients. Yes, you heard correctly: A midwife, a specialist nurse, a high school teacher, a biomedical analyst or an X-ray nurse are counted in the Swedish Social Democrats as high-income recipients. For them, it does not pay to make a little more effort. For them it is not worth working extra on Friday or Saturday, even if the patients and the elderly would like and need that help. So wrong is the policy of the Social Democrats to raise taxes. It strikes right into the wallets of many of the middle wage earners around our country who are struggling extra, trying hard and wanting to help and please. Madam President, I would like It's time we broke up and changed this. It is time for Sweden to have a new government in place that ensures that it always pays to make an effort. Many of these groups have not only studied three years at the university, but have studied five years at the university. They have high student debt. They know that effort pays off – but not in Sweden of the Social Democrats. Sweden must therefore have a new government in place. Madam President, I would like It'll pay to make an effort. It will pay to continue training. It should pay to work a little extra to be that key in the core of well-being. However, a new tax policy is needed to ensure that nurses and teachers are not counted as high-income workers. Our goal is that no teacher or nurse should be counted as a high-income earner and pay government income tax when they work a little extra and make an effort when welfare so badly needs it. We pay tribute to the principle of half left, Madam President.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-252	Madam President, I would like When I heard Cecilia Widegren speak, I thought of Willy Brandt, the old Social Democratic leader in Germany. He once said that the right wing promises the many what they know only a few can conquer. That is exactly the case when we talk about the high, harmful taxes. Treasure is a harder word than leprosy for a moderate. Is there anything more diabolical to drag into this House than tax? Then you decouple income from well-being, sick people who are going to work and other things. Your tax policy is a massacre of welfare.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-255	Madam President, I would like No, Peter Persson, it's just the opposite. It is when more people make an effort, more work, more further education and more people want to try a little more as it becomes more to the common welfare. That is also when we can do even more to strengthen the quality of the core of welfare. It is only when the nurse, biomedical analyst and X-ray nurse feel that the studies pay off and that the extra job that they do is good both for the patient and to confirm one's profession and one's occupational group as the core of well-being will get the extra quality that we expect today as patients and as users. So it's the other way around, Peter Persson. Now the voters have voted this government out. Parliament has voted the Prime Minister out. Sweden needs a new government.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-258	Madam President, I would like Everyone knows that Moderate tax policy means that freedom should be increased for those with very large incomes. They need premiums. However, those who have small incomes or who need our joint support at the moment – the unemployed and the sick – should be cut. Lower entry wages are to be legislated. Your policy is always consistent—it is unfair.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-260	Madam President, I would like Work is at the heart of everyone's right and of society's functioning. On the day, Peter Persson, that 60 billion in tax increases bring better welfare – and the day 100 billion gives better welfare – the Social Democrats could argue as Peter Persson. But that's not what happened. After four years, there is a flight of personnel and a shortage of staff. The care queues are growing, and the specialist nurses just want more and more colleagues. That is the result of your policy. We now hope that we will have a new government that can implement our policy.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-262	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is based on the fact that unions and employers agree on wages and conditions on the labour market. Labour law provides basic security for workers and competition on equal terms for companies. For me as a social democrat, it is important that you can feel safe at work, that the work environment is good and that you can live on your salary. It may sound obvious, but is it obvious? All parties in the Swedish parliament claim to protect the Swedish model in the labour market, but time and again the right wing comes with proposals that risk radically changing this model. They want the exceptions in the order in the Employment Protection Act, LAS, to become more and thus increase arbitrariness in the event of dismissals. If the proposals for deterioration in the LAS are implemented, the power of the labour market will shift to the advantage of the employer. The law is not only about who should go first when there is a shortage of work, but the rules of rotation also give workers a position in negotiations that they would not otherwise have. They give the unions the opportunity to trade better conditions for those who lose their job and that the employer should have more influence on the order. What they say they want to achieve through their proposals resolves the parties on a daily basis in negotiations. The right also wants to double the probationary period to twelve months. This does not lead to more people being hired but risks leading to abuse of the form of employment. Six months is quite enough for an employer to see if you can do the job or not. Our workplaces would be quiet if the job were to be put at risk because you're a little uncomfortable. Who dares to protest against lack of work environment or a close manager if you have an insecure job? Workers are already witnessing a lack of working environment in workplaces with many precarious jobs. The problem for Swedish companies is not that they lose vital skills during rotation negotiations; the problem is that they find it difficult to recruit the right skills. We do not solve this through precarious jobs, but through great opportunities for education, transition and skills development – opportunities that we need to further strengthen. The Swedish model has for a long time delivered work peace, flexibility and productivity. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU and unemployment is now falling in all groups. At that point, the bourgeois's momentum of change seems a little strange. The balance between the parties is important for the Swedish model to continue to deliver. We are therefore opposed to the right to unilaterally weaken the position of workers, not only because it creates insecurity but also because it upsets the balance of power. I believe that our model already meets the need for flexibility in the labour market. Given how precarious employment affects people's ability to shape their lives, get a home and start a family, and how precarious employment creates stress and ill-health, we should strive to work as few as possible under these conditions. That is why we Social Democrats want to increase the security of the labour market by abolishing general fixed-term employment. There's nothing modern about day laborers. Temporary employment has a role to play in the labour market. However, they shall be complementary and shall be justified. Without major obstacles, employers can today reduce your working hours and income no matter how long you have worked in a workplace – so-called planing. This is a reality after a judgment of the Labour Court. The law protects your employment, but it does not protect your degree or salary. We want to stop the planing and ensure that these situations are also covered by employment protection. Is it a matter of course, then, with fair conditions on the labour market? No, it's not obvious. This is something that depends on political will and decisions, and where we Social Democrats stand up for the Swedish model and a secure labour market for workers.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-276	Madam President, I would like I congratulate you both on your missions! During the previous term of office, Sweden has been in a boom, and it seems to be holding on for a while longer. We have seen how investments have increased, both housing investments and industry's other investments, and our export companies have been at a high speed. This has been done along with a robust rise in the entire world around us. Tax revenues have increased, and more have a job to go to. It could be peace and joy. But there are many of us here today and on many other occasions have pointed out that the government has wasted a boom. It has not prepared itself for the recession that is to come, and we are seeing the labour market becoming increasingly tudelas. A boom is a time when those furthest from the labour market normally have an opportunity to establish themselves. Instead, the labour market in Sweden is now characterised by a growing division, where an increasing proportion of the unemployed, which mostly consists of foreign born people and people without upper secondary education, are increasingly away from the labour market. According to the latest data from the Employment Service, the number of unemployed persons has decreased overall, but despite these good times, we see how long-term unemployment is holding fast and how the proportion of unemployed among foreign-born people is still around 20 per cent. And despite what we have heard here earlier in the debate, the number of long-term unemployed is greater today than it was at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, i.e. in 2014. In addition, the latest figures show that long-term unemployment is increasing significantly among foreign born children compared to last year. At the same time, we can read about the end of the money at Arbetsförmedlingen and that the expenditure on unemployment benefits is higher than expected. The government must therefore provide additional funds. I don't really get this to go together. How can it be that, despite a boom, we can allow exclusion to get stuck, allow the matching to not work and allow unemployment insurance expenditure to increase? It is particularly surprising when we hear in this House today about how well Sweden and jobs are doing and that, on many other occasions, both the ministers of employment and other ministers and representatives have taken to heart in this regard. The Moderates and the Alliance have pointed out many times during the last term of office that structural reforms are needed to reduce the job gap. We've done this before. The Alliance government created a policy that made it more profitable to work and made it easier for those furthest away from the labour market. The job gap then narrowed. The Moderates want to strengthen the drive to work through a reduction in income tax for those with the lowest incomes. We want to create more ways into work. We want to expand RUT, introduce entry jobs and implement a grant reform that reduces the cost of grants. It must pay better to work. We want to introduce a premium ceiling, and we do not want contributions to be stacked on subsidies. This is necessary in order to afford the welfare. This and much more is what Sweden needs. The country needs a new leadership that will ensure that we are equipped for the next recession. We can't afford to waste any more time. We need a new government.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-287	Madam President, I would like I have noted that during the period of bourgeois government, the Employment Service sent money back every year. It was not because unemployment had fallen or because labour market policy needs had become less, but because the regulations were so narrow and strange that it was simply not possible to use the money it had been made available. Nowadays there is a slightly broader programme, which means that Arbetsförmedlingen can use the money and help people get away from unemployment and into a measure that leads to work. The same applies to unemployment insurance. During the Moderates' time in power, so few could qualify for unemployment benefit that the costs were reduced for this reason. Today, more people are entitled to an income-based benefit from the unemployment fund. This enables more people to make a living even in times when they have lost their jobs temporarily. I want to know why the Moderates think these two things are a problem.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-290	Madam President, I would like My point was, above all, that despite the boom, the government has not succeeded in its labour market policy. The reforms that have been necessary have not been implemented; we see an increased job gap. My point is, above all, that the extra services, which we have talked about several times today, do not have the effects that we all think are necessary in this situation. I do not understand how one can beat one's chest and be proud of the situation that prevails when we see an increasing division in the labour market.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-293	Madam President, I would like Even the Moderates have to admit that Eurostat has never measured such a high employment rate in Sweden as we have today. The fact that there are many unemployed at the same time is because the chances of getting a job are greater than for a very long time, which means that more people are part of the labour force. This in itself is a very positive development. Over the next few years, we will not have to make people who work poorer; it pays to work today. Instead, we need education, training and training to provide the right skills for working life. This is what Sweden needs.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-295	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we need education. We need to ensure that people who are far from the labour market can receive training. The fact is, however, that the government has failed in its job goals. It was said that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. We don't. Instead, our position has fallen and become worse. I believe that the government has not implemented the necessary reforms to ensure that Sweden is better equipped for the next recession.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-297	Madam President, I would like Social-democratic fiscal policy creates employment, a strong general well-being and a fair distribution. Politics is connected, and it makes sure to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. One of our most important promises in the elections was to continue to give the welfare the skills and resources needed. During the term of office, the Social Democratic-led government has re-equipped welfare with investments of SEK 35 billion. We have now restored welfare to the levels that existed before the alliance government began to lower taxes and prioritise welfare. As a result of the policy of the Promise Government, 300 000 more people in our country today have a job to go to. 100,000 of these work in welfare. They represent a significant and important strengthening of welfare. But that's not enough. We see that needs are increasing in municipalities and county councils. One reason for this is that more children are born, which is positive. However, it also requires the construction of more new preschool departments. Another reason is that the proportion of older people in our society is increasing. We live longer, and that is of course pleasing. More people have a long and good life. But this also means that a greater proportion of people have a need for care. What needs to be done is simply a building of society, and that is a priority for us Social Democrats. During the period, we have provided general state grants of SEK 10 billion a year to municipalities and county councils in order for them to be able to meet the development. This money has certainly been useful, and many are the municipalities which, thanks to it, have made their budget go together. In addition, we have focused on education with a knowledge boost of 100 000 training places throughout the country. We have done this both to equip people with the right skills to get a job and to enable employers to find the skills they need. This means that many activities in the country can both get people to hire and get the resources to afford to hire these people. On this particular issue – tax cuts versus welfare – there is a conflict in Sweden. Imagine that we had instead done what the right wing wants: voted against the supply of skills and welfare efforts, and reduced the tax – mostly for people who are already very well off. How had this affected unemployment, all the strained teachers or already long care queues? This is not what Sweden would have needed, nor is it what we need. Thanks to the Social Democratic policy, we have reversed the great deficit left by the Alliance government as a result of all the unfunded tax cuts. Now, instead, the country has a surplus, which means that we can invest. And we're gonna keep doing that. In the run-up to the elections, we therefore promised to double the general welfare money from 10 billion to 20 billion a year. They're needed to keep the country together. For us, welfare is ahead of major tax cuts. That's how we build the country.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-306	Madam President, I would like The warning signals from the Swedish municipal sector come in a strong stream, not only from the joint organisation SKL, but also from an increasing number of municipalities, economists and experts. They see major financial difficulties in the future for many Swedish municipalities. There are several reasons. We have a growing share of older people, children and young people in the population, which increases the need for municipal services. At the same time, the proportion of workers in the population is decreasing. For many rural municipalities, this is further enhanced by young people leaving municipalities and moving to larger cities. They remain older, younger and far too few taxpayers. The problems are reinforced for municipalities that have received a lot of new arrivals in the last five to six years. Many municipalities have done so voluntarily, since they have seen an opportunity to fill empty apartments with tenants and at the same time have received the costs paid by the state in the first few years. However, as the state's economic responsibility ceases, too few of the new arrivals get into work and too many people are forced to live on subsistence support, the finances of the municipalities are being eroded at a rapid pace. The fact that there were many empty apartments was mostly due to fewer jobs in the municipality. Instead, there are a lot of new arrivals in places where there are no jobs. There are many municipalities which, as a result of asylum policy, have found themselves in a very difficult situation. An example is Avesta. In an article in Avesta Tidning recently, Municipal Manager Siw Karlsson describes the situation as very strained. If new government money does not come, she says, redundancies are expected. She says in the article that the economic problems are largely related to Avesta being one of the municipalities in Dalarna that has received the most new arrivals. When state compensation ends, the costs remain. A municipality with great economic pressures is forced sooner or later to cut welfare, lay off staff and raise municipal taxes. All these things run the risk of creating a vicious circle in which even more active people leave the municipality for more attractive places, with the situation deteriorating further. Madam President, I would like In several reports, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils have shown that during the reign of the Alliance there was a balance between tax revenue and expenditure for the local government sector and that stable surpluses were reported. This was also the case during the financial crisis. In recent mandates it has looked significantly worse. Expenditure exceeds tax revenue. Without extra temporary state grants, many municipalities would account for large deficits. So that is what it is today, in the midst of a strong boom, when tax revenues are good and unemployment is at least reasonably low. Now the economic cycle is likely to turn downwards. The signs of it are many. This means that tax revenues are likely to decrease significantly and unemployment increases. At the same time, the economic responsibility of the state for more and more new arrivals ceases. If all this happens at the same time, a steel bath awaits many municipalities. I am convinced that some municipalities will not survive without help. The state must give priority here in order to be able to support municipalities and secure welfare if necessary. At the same time, however, the state cannot solve all the problems of municipalities. Each municipality must give careful priority to what it spends tax money on. At the same time, one must look at the development of one's own municipality in the longer term. The voluntary admission of very large numbers of new arrivals to fill empty apartment buildings in smaller towns with weak labour markets was perhaps not well thought out. Madam President, I would like The situation in the local government sector is worrying and must be taken seriously by the next government. An important lesson is that the great reception of asylum is now becoming a really heavy post financially for Sweden. We must pursue a very tight migration policy for the foreseeable future in order not to exacerbate the situation further. There is no room for complacency in migration policy. At the same time, the foundation for a strong municipal economy is that we get more companies and more jobs in the private sector across the country. This is what creates all the resources for well-being and other municipal activities. A good business environment is the basis for the entire Swedish welfare. Increased taxes on entrepreneurship, work, energy and transport are definitely the wrong way to strengthen rural municipalities.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-315	Madam President, I would like If I had just listened, if I had closed my eyes and not looked at the display where it was written, Jan Ericson (M), I would have thought that there was a completely different party in the speaker's chair. Jan Ericson spoke about the municipal economy. Eighty per cent of the time he spoke about what he considers to be tiring: migration and refugees. Open your hearts, Reinfeldt said once. The Moderates now eagerly applauded your closed heart, Jan Ericson. It was distressing to hear you speak that way. Away from all humanism, away from all solidarity thinking!
i-8e8704fce62d2624-317	Madam President, I would like We will probably have this discussion many times in the future. For Peter Persson it is humanism only if you care about some people and also lumps together all the people who come to Sweden in some places where there is no labour market. Is it really humanism? For me, humanism is that you make sure that the whole society works and that all well-being works, both for the people who come to Sweden and for the people who already live in Sweden, both for the people who were born in Sweden and for the people who have immigrated to Sweden. Everyone in Sweden should be able to experience that welfare works. We're not there today. Today we are in a completely different situation, where things are not working and where municipalities are on their knees because of this. Does Peter Persson really think this is good?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-319	Madam President, I would like Ericson's concern for the local economy had been particularly justified at the time of the major tax cuts and reductions in public finances. Now a Social Democratic-led government has made efforts. For me, politics is about presenting reality honestly, just as it is, and neither ugliness nor beautification.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-320	Madam President, I would like Peter Persson! I said in my main speech that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils during the alliance years showed that there was a balance between expenditure and income in the municipalities. The Alliance ensured that the local government sector was able to cope with welfare during the financial crisis. Now we're on a boom. Yet the municipalities do not manage to make ends meet. Much of this is due to migration, as the municipal director of Avesta points out. She says that in Avesta's case it is because it was one of the municipalities in Dalarna that received the most new arrivals. The municipal manager and finance manager in Avesta say this. Then Peter Persson should listen.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-322	Madam President, I would like Welcome to the new mission! I shall speak in my speech about the environment, the difference between women and men and recruitment to welfare. There are clear differences between women's and men's working environment, mainly due to the gender-segregated labour market. In women-coded sectors, the conditions for work and the working environment are worse. It also entails higher risks of ill health and a higher risk of having to leave work as a result of ill health or dissatisfaction with working conditions. The deterioration of the working environment in women-dominated professions cannot only be addressed through better preventive work environment management. Measures are also needed at central level and of an organisational nature. Given the high skill shortages in several welfare professions in the public sector, the conditions for employees there also need to be improved. Otherwise you will not be able to attract staff. Let us note that up to 2026 more than 200 000 people are needed in this sector. We can call that a really big challenge. The Moderates have a policy that is relevant for problem-solving regarding recruitment and work environment. I would like to highlight some of our proposals. We want special supervision of the psychosocial working environment in the professions and in the employers with particularly high sick leave. There is a connection between weak psychosocial work environment and illness with mental diagnosis. It can also be noted that many of the professions where employees experience shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment are in publicly funded activities. Nurses, midwives, nurses and teachers in comprehensive school and upper secondary school are particularly vulnerable. With my background as a physiotherapist – I have also trained ergonomics staff – I want to highlight the need for training staff so that they do not physically harm themselves in the profession. There is really much left to do here. Many times I have been told that there has been no education for many years. It could be 10 or 15 years. That, of course, is not acceptable. Training for staff gives effects physically, but also psychologically in the form that it shows that the employer invests in their staff. In conclusion, both the psychosocial and the physical working environment are important in this context and worthy of consideration. We have more suggestions. We want more career paths for preschool teachers. We want a national action plan for social services. We want to modernise the Social Services Act but also tackle issues in skills provision and organisation and combat staff flight. We want a higher salary for skilled teachers and a competence development for teachers and school leaders. We also want to safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in healthcare. It is important that we have more career paths. If there are more employers, employees also have the opportunity to choose to apply to the employer who offers the best terms and conditions of employment. Private employers have more satisfied employees. It has been known since before. There is much to be said about this area. We're running out of time. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back to this. With this post, we demonstrate the importance of highlighting health and safety issues. They are extremely important to handle here in Parliament.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-332	Madam President, I would like The basis for work and the economy is based on a free market economy. You often hear in Sweden about that we should have a mixed economy. That's wrong. It must be a free market economy that lays the foundation for all prosperity. We need to review our regulations and tax systems so that they allow new entrepreneurs, new innovation in Sweden, entrepreneurship and carrots for people who dare to invest and invest to create new jobs for other people and build businesses. It may then be necessary to review double taxation of entrepreneurs. First, the companies pay taxes. If shareholders charge dividends from the companies, it is tax once more on the same capital that has been worked in. A review should be carried out here. We've had a long boom. It's been longer than they usually are. We see it's starting to level out. It may last a few more years if we are lucky, but there are many signs that it will level out. We will face an increase in interest rates. In recent years we have had a negative interest rate. You can almost say that the economy has been doped in Sweden if you can use that expression. Unfortunately, the government's Löfven have been lost in those years. It has not prepared for worse times. It has not been able to develop real reforms to improve the opportunities for people to live and live in Sweden. At that time, it's been sloppy. All it has done is raise taxes by 60 billion and increase expenditure by 100 billion. The housing market is a sector that needs to be reviewed. Today we have a very dysfunctional housing market in particular in the Stockholm region. It is difficult to find apartments due to poor mobility on the market. If you own a villa in a crane municipality in Stockholm County and sell it, it is sales tax of 22 percent. Then you get a one in the inner city. If it is a pensioner's couple who have worked and worked in an entire life, saved and amortized, it will probably take against selling their villa and moving into a one. The housing market should be reformed. The only thing that Peter Eriksson has done in the government Löfven is to introduce amortisation requirements on loans and on households when people invest. This has pushed young people away from the market. They must apply for accommodation in a rental apartment if it exists. We have a mixed stock, and there will be a short circuit in everything. In good times you save to be equipped for bad times. That goes without saying. The Government has now prepared a proposal under Investigator Håkan Sörman regarding changes in the tax equalisation system. It is absolutely essential to have the tax equalisation system. Otherwise, municipalities in the hinterland and especially in Norrland would not be able to cope with the municipal service. We all agree on that. What I am looking for is that the state should take full responsibility for funding and not put it on well-managed municipalities that have low costs and high quality in core business.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-343	Madam President, I would like I listened with great interest to Kjell Jansson's debut speech in the Chamber. I'll welcome you. I would like some clarifications. You're talking about the free market economy. Get rid of the hateful mixed economy. First of all, can you mention some regulations that you think need to be in the economy? I want a second clarification. What do you think is the optimal tax level expressed as a percentage of bnp? You move around those questions with no clarity. Thirdly, should I take you to the point that market rents would solve much of the problems in the housing market? Fourthly, how much do you think the public economy should be reduced in order to improve the functioning of the economy? I would be deeply grateful for clarifications.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-348	Madam President, I would like If we start from behind with market rents, I don't think they'll solve the whole problem. On the other hand, a larger part of it is needed mainly in the inner city of Stockholm and in the metropolitan regions in order to have a dynamic in the rental market. It is reasonable that you pay higher rent for an apartment on Östermalm than in Rinkeby, I think. The situation should be a major factor in renting. When it comes to how much the state should levy taxes, I have no firm answer at what level it should be. You can always talk about that. I can see that other countries that are not so far from Sweden, such as Germany, have a tax burden of 8-10% below our level. They have no worse welfare in Germany. People do not suffer badly in Germany. We should probably look at how we handle our public finances. I can also note that several municipalities in the Stockholm region with low taxes have higher quality in their core activities than the social democratic municipalities in Stockholm County.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-351	Madam President, I would like That was an interesting clarification. Lie! , said the Moderates in the election movement when we said you wanted to introduce market rents. Now I've got it confirmed. Check, what we said was true. The second interesting thing is that we want to reduce public expenditure by 10% in order to have it as in Germany. There's just as much well-being. You can go down and ask the German women what they think about pre-school politics in Germany or elderly care. There are only two examples you can study. It's good to know those entry values for the Moderates.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-354	Madam President, I would like To be clear, I did not say that we should introduce full market rent. I said there should be more of it in the metropolitan regions. It is most reasonable if we now want to have a dynamic in the housing market. You can always discuss tax pressure. Basically, I think that all the money people work together is the individual's money. Then you can always discuss how much the state should take of the individual. I am in favour of VAT and lower income taxes. It increases the carrot for people to exert themselves and go to work instead of living on benefits.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-357	Madam President, I would like The first speech I made as a newly elected Member of Parliament over eight years ago was entitled equality. I have also explained my speech today, even though I believe that equality is the main driving force of the Social Democratic Party that I belong to and will always belong to. There is nothing as challenging as gigantic divides – that a few will get what the many cannot get. We have seen it in history: deep injustices in the distribution of educational opportunities, in health care and in the care of the various kinds of life occur. Social democracy has historically fought against inequality. We had created one of the world's most equal countries a b it into the latter part of the 70's. Keys were full employment and expansion of the common. It was democracy that embedded and prevented the worst declines in capitalism. Over the last 20 years, we have seen unwanted developments in our country and in many other countries. The gaps have increased dramatically. Some are now taking on a large part of the values created by work, while others are being pushed back. The economic and social divides that have increased in the world around us contain two deep and severe pressures. One is that the gap is hampering growth in the economy. That speaks of economists who can hardly spell Marx or socialism. They say that we need to have a better distribution of the economy in order to increase growth and to reduce social gaps. The success of right-wing radical parties in our country and in other countries on our continent and across the sea is that an increasing group is deeply frustrated by the social and economic gaps that have been created. I therefore believe that the most modern and most important thing in politics is that politics is turning to the future in a healthy view of combating class injustices and economic and social divides. Equality is modern. It also generates solidarity – the most beautiful word there is – in that we humans belong together and are equally worth it. That is why I and the party I belong to intend to devote all their efforts to creating greater equality and greater solidarity.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-363	Madam President, I would like Madam President, the calculation will have to be zeroed, because I do not get any speaking time at all – thank you! I am always so upset when I hear Social Democrats talk about solidarity and equality. The Social Democrats are the party that has perhaps more than anything else succeeded in overestimating Swedish low-income earners so much. When the Alliance took office, Swedish low-income people paid the highest taxes in the world. When the Alliance had made its tax cuts, this meant that low-income earners and middle-income earners in Sweden were approximately on an average tax burden in Europe while high-income earners still paid the world's highest taxes. It was the result of the Alliance's tax cuts. Now, during the Social Democrats and in the boom, income differentials and differences in living standards and economic prosperity in Sweden are increasing. Low-income earners are plagued by increasing taxes on labour, energy, transport and all sorts of other things.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-367	Madam President, I would like I just heard that Ericson wanted to be reset. I can inform him that he is already in charge of important elements of politics, such as reducing gaps and increasing opportunities. There are two ways to create justice. Do you think it's unfair that there are people who don't have a job? Do you think it is unfair that a person who does not have a job because the work has been shut down should get another blow through reduced unemployment insurance? Is that solidarity, Ericson? Or the one who breaks his leg on purpose and goes with health insurance – should you hit him? No, when Moderates speak of justice, I cross two fingers of my hand.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-369	Madam President, I would like Again, Peter Persson : The gaps are increasing today under your rule in spite of boom and rising taxes. In spite of this, the gaps in society are increasing; it is not possible to talk away. It is traditional social democratic policy. It always leads to increased gaps. During the Alliance, ordinary wage earners received a full monthly salary to live on every year thanks to our job tax deduction. An extra month's salary for ordinary employees – you would never have fixed that!
i-8e8704fce62d2624-371	Madam President, I would like This man wants to legislate on reduced entry wages. It is indeed to the benefit of employees. He wants to hit the one who gets out of work or the one who gets sick. He has consistently promoted tax relief for those with high incomes but has always hit low-income earners. The right is not credible in terms of equality and solidarity. That's not your game plan.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-373	Madam President, I would like Sweden is currently on what many assessors are talking about as the peak of a boom. Unemployment is low among those close to the labour market. However, among foreign-born people, unemployment is now close to 20 per cent, and long-term unemployment is growing despite the boom. We have a two-tier labour market in Sweden. All the conditions for implementing the necessary structural reforms in our labour market have existed this term of office, but instead the S ‐ government has chosen to implement ineffective labour market programmes to conceal structural problems in the labour market. Let me give three examples of the scale of the problems. The first is the broken promises. Stefan Löfven already promised in 2013 that by 2020 Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. What has happened since then? Recent statistics show that things have gone in the wrong direction. Instead, Sweden has moved from 12 to 17 and is now coming after countries such as Romania and Bulgaria. My second example is the increase in costs. Already in the spring bill the government flagged for increased costs of financial assistance, and now after the election the government reveals that the a-cassage cost this year is nearly SEK 3 billion. So that is an increase of 30% against what has been said before. At the same time, the government is committed to concealing unemployment, including through the so-called additional services that many have mentioned here today. These have so far cost about SEK 30 million per job. And jobs have not gone to the people for whom they were intended, namely those furthest from the labour market. My third example is human suffering. The image of the Social Democrats' job failure also goes again at the local level. In S-controlled Malmö, the cost of grants has increased both in absolute terms and in proportion, and current figures show that the rate of establishment has gone by far the slowest in Malmö. This compares, for example, with the green-blue Sundbyberg, where the last term of office has seen a reduction of over 40% in dependency on grants. Where S's politics prevails most, it is also at its worst. We have had a Prime Minister who has made promises of improvements and instead delivered deteriorations. Instead, when we have been able to expect cost reductions as a result of the boom, we have seen that expenditure is now increasing, and where the Prime Minister's policy has prevailed most, we are now seeing the greatest deterioration. Now that we Members of this House are together and we are facing the challenge of forming a new government, we need to ask ourselves a few questions. What things will the Social Democrats promise next time and not be able to deliver? How much more S-politics can we afford as the pressure on transfer systems increases? How much more human suffering can we afford through the emergence of a new subclass and a division of society? In this respect, all Members will be obliged to reply.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-385	Madam President, I would like No child should have to live in child poverty, either here in Sweden or anywhere else. Unfortunately, however, many children in our country live in families that have a very tough financial situation. If a child lives with a single parent or has a foreign background, the risk is greatest. Me n there is hope for change. Save the Children recently presented a report that all fewer children live in so-called 'b arn poverty', which is gratifying. In 202 of Sweden's municipalities, child poverty decreased in 2016. One of the reasons is that the children's parents have got a job and received wages that give them the opportunity to support themselves and better safety insurance when, for example, they become ill, need to care for a child or become unemployed. This is a difference for the whole family, which has a better financial situation and the freedom to influence the life situation through, for example, better housing, perhaps a holiday and leisure activities for the children. Unemployment has fallen, and around 250 000 more people got jobs during the last term of office. In the past, the EU had measured as high an employment rate as Sweden now has. V i has a high labour force demand, and youth unemployment is the lowest in about 16 years. As regards the reduction in poverty, the reasons are the increase in labour demand but also labour market policy measures. As a result, more parents have left long-term unemployment behind and received a paid job, which has also reduced support for subsistence. With a good labour market policy, we are indulging in child poverty. The increase in child benefit, student allowance, free prescription medicine, better compensation in our social security systems and help for summer jobs and more will be better for all children's families, and especially for those who are in the toughest situation. Madam President, I would like I remember a meeting so well and with joy in my heart. It was when I met a very happy woman at home in Borås who got a job with the help of labour market policy. H on told me that even her husband had got a job quite recently. They were very grateful for the support and help they had received. When I congratulated and thought it was fun, she said: "You should know that my husband and I are very happy to have a job and a real income, but you should see our children! They are even happier and happier, for they know that this will make a difference. I am quite sure that children will have a better life and that they will grow up free of child poverty. Their summer holidays will look different, parents will be role models in a different way than before and self-esteem and the opportunities will be much better for both children and parents. With politics, you can make a difference whether it's extra services, summer vacation jobs or increased child benefit. For us Social Democrats, the goal is that no child should live in financial vulnerability, because it is good for all of us.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-393	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the countries with the absolute highest tax burden throughout the OECD, and taxes have been further increased by 60 billion during this term of office. Expenditure has increased even more, by SEK 100 billion. Despite this and despite strong economic boom, we have fewer police officers and longer care queues today than we had four years ago. So what we do with our tax money plays a big, big role. The fact that for many new arrivals, for example, it pays less to go to work than it does to stack various contributions on each other has consequences. Perhaps that is precisely the greatest waste of tax money of our time. It is a waste that the benefit money could have gone to something else – more policemen or reduced taxes on labour – but above all it is a waste for the very individuals who are shut out in dependency, kept away from the labour market and missed integration. We therefore need politicians who dare to prioritise by, for example, introducing grant ceilings for new arrivals and reducing bureaucracy, the number of authorities and the number of politicians and Members of Parliament. We need politicians who dare to remove various inefficient subsidies, such as the e-bike premium, and who dare to introduce real civil liability in Sweden again. We also need reforms to prevent waste of tax money at system level. Then what is it? Well, I usually say that with waste, it's like trolls bursting in sunshine. It is only when waste is examined and revealed that each of us alone can take into account the consequences of waste. That is when we can see that it is really a waste and take a stand on it. Waste of tax money is also the naive friend of corruption. If you waste for your own gain, it is usually a crime, but if you waste the public's good and woe in mind, usually nothing happens. Yet you've wasted tax money. Therefore, waste of tax money is something that erodes our entire social contract in the same way as corruption does, and it should be taken just as seriously as corruption. Then we need to do three things in the first place. Firstly, taxes need to be visible so that we know how much we pay in taxes. If you do not know, how can you value the value and quality of what you get back from society? Secondly, we need transparency in our tax system. When you realize how much tax you pay, you should also be able to follow where the money goes and be able to value if you get enough for that money. Thirdly, we must have proper accountability in Sweden so that it is felt by those who have wasted other people's tax money. For it will always continue to be wasted – unfortunately. Politicians and officials are like all other people. So what we have to do is ask ourselves the question: How do we minimise the risk of it?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-402	Madam President, I would like Members! I did not intend to make a debut in this House in a reply, but now I have heard several moderate representatives say that, in a boom, the Social Democracy has mismanaged the country's economy and that we have not equipped it for its future. Open-heart policy, which you actually started, Ida Drougge, has been managed and managed by a Social Democratic government. During that period, I was the chairman of the municipal council of a municipality who voluntarily used the word solidarity and did a great deal of good. I would say that we have equipped Sweden. 250 000 more are in employment, and we have halved the time it takes newcomers to get to work or start training. But you keep saying that we have dismantled and dismantled. What would the Moderates have done if you had been in power during that time?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-406	Madam President, I would like We have a whole election manifesto and along with the Alliance hundreds of points with things we would have done instead. For example, we would have introduced a premium ceiling for new arrivals, as I said in my speech, in order to increase the momentum to get to work. I think that would have led to major differences. We know that for around 4 000 families in Sweden it is better to go on benefits than to work today. Of course it matters.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-408	Madam President, I would like It's sad that you, as a moderate strainer of that picture, Ida. An unaccompanied refugee youth has 73 crowns a day to live on. It's not something you try to live on voluntarily. You don't aim to secure your income at that level. It's not very likely. Unfortunately, this brings to bear on the contempt for refugees and the policy that we really do not want to be carried on in this Parliament. It's sad.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-410	Madam President, I would like These are, as I mentioned earlier, facts presented by the government's own investigation. And I was talking about the compensation of families and not of unaccompanied children. I think that we would have much more constructive debates and go further in this country if we could focus on precisely that rather than, as Tomas Kronståhl does, believing that exclusion arose during the last parliamentary term.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-412	Madam President, I would like The development in Sweden is in many ways moving in the right direction. More people have a job to go to, and the Social Democratic-led government has turned the state's budget deficit into surplus which in turn could then be invested in our common welfare and a society that holds together. However, there are major challenges. We have gaps between town and country, between poor and rich, and between men and women. This is, of course, unacceptable. These gaps must be closed in order for us to have a safe society for everyone, whether you live where I live in Lund, in Skåne, or in Kalix up north. We Social Democrats have worked and will always continue to work for a society for the many and not just for the few. Madam President, I would like I would like to dwell on the gaps between men and women. The Social Democrats are a feminist party, and we have now also had the first feminist government which, in the area by area, has given priority to breaking the inequality that exists in society. But one year after the appeal of the Metoo movement, it is clear that our joint responsibility cannot end here. We have to do more. Sweden is a forerunner in terms of equality, not least through the historic decisions taken in this House before us. But it also obliges to hold on and not let the work stop. It is particularly important today when women's rights are threatened here in Sweden too. What so many political generations before us have worked for, there are now political forces that want to break down. The right to abortion is a clear example. That is why we, who continue to safeguard the right of women to their own bodies and an equal labour market with secure working conditions, must stand by it when these fundamental values of equality are in fact called into question. We must stand on the right side of history and not back the band for women's rights. Madam President, I would like Our Social Democratic vision for Sweden is a Sweden where all people get the power to shape their own lives. As long as there is inequality in the labour market or in the home, that is not the case. There is still a pay gap between men and women, a pay gap that provides less freedom and security for women both during working life and after retirement. At the same time, the precarious conditions of employment that prevail in many parts of the labour market mean that as an employee you do not dare to act when you are subjected to sexual harassment or discrimination. That is why a policy of security in working life is also a feminist issue and a matter of course for us Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that the decision on consent legislation was, for us Social Democrats, a long-awaited decision to cope with Sweden's continued efforts to strengthen women's freedom and achieve a fully equal society. But now more steps are needed. More standards must be broken, and women's right to their own body must always be defended. For the same reason, we must continue the work we have done in government to stop men's violence against women. Sweden needs more feminist politics, not less. It is important for us to have a society that holds together, a secure society and an equal Sweden.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-422	Madam President, I would like I would like to spend my minutes in this general political debate to say a few words on perhaps the most central issue in Swedish politics today, namely welfare and welfare funding. Sweden's Social Democratic welfare model has made our country one of the richest and best countries in the world to live in. Welfare is not a luxury that we cost ourselves because Sweden is a rich country. Sweden is a rich country thanks to its welfare. In many ways, the development is moving in the right direction in Sweden. Compared to four years ago, more than 300 000 more people go to work today. We have order in public finances with large surpluses, a historically low national debt and strong economic ramifications against possibly worse times. Therefore, the Social Democratic-led government could also increase its resources for welfare by SEK 35 billion during the previous term of office. At the same time, however, the tasks of welfare have also grown. Sweden's population is growing and it is also changing its composition. We Swedes live all the time and at the same time now have children of their own. The demographic shift that we are now seeing has only just begun. In the coming years, there will be 300 000 more older children and 200 000 more children. This is an amazingly pleasing development. In many ways it is a sign of strength for the society in which we live, but it also places great demands on politics. In the coming years, we will have to build hundreds of preschools, schools, retirement homes, health centres and sports halls. In turn, they will be staffed with tens of thousands of nurses, nurses, doctors, teachers, preschool teachers to be both trained and hired. This work will not be done by parliament and ministries; it will be done by municipalities, regions and county councils around the country, that is, the producers of welfare. While this debate is ongoing, municipal politicians and officials are struggling to meet the needs of the coming years in health care, school and care. That is not to say that we in this House do not have a responsibility to face up to this development, and we certainly do not lack the opportunity to influence it. This is where we decide how the strength of the Swedish economy should be used, and for us Social Democrats the message was clear both in the election movement and throughout the last term of office: more resources for welfare must go before major tax cuts. Madam President, I would like One of the most important reforms in the last parliamentary term was the ten welfare billions. They give municipalities, county councils and regions stronger economic muscles, and they create, not least, freedom of action. The conditions are very different, although it does not always sound that way in the national media. In some parts of the country, the emphasis is on interventions in the care of the elderly, in other parts it is about investments in preschool and school. Some need to secure the recruitment of welfare workers with the right skills, others need to build more housing that people can afford to live in. But the ten welfare billions will only last just as far as the needs grow. Now one of our most important tasks is this parliamentary term to ensure that welfare billions are increased to at least double. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me remind you something about the connection between welfare and economics. If you don't run public finances, it's welfare that's going to take the fall. But if you don't take care of your welfare, sooner or later our entire economy is going to take the fall. Because it is thanks to welfare that millions of people can go to work every day and make a living on their own jobs. In the end, not providing the resources required by a growing population is not only a matter of people's well-being, but also a matter of people's and society's prosperity.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-438	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Ingemar I think of Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt's book All these days. There he wrote about the election movement in 1988: We described the country's economy in too bright colors, a fraud that was revealed. Prime Minister Löfven made this election an election on welfare, but we can still note that the Social Democrats have not gained the voter's confidence. It is not considered that the Social Democrats are living up to what one can demand of a party that supports the state. The first thing the Social Democrats did when they took over power in autumn 2014 was to remove the so-called queue billions, i.e. incentives for county councils and regions to work with queue problems in healthcare. We now see a health care that goes on its knees.
i-VX6vDxmdfp6gpfJ5XkWr2j	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for the input! It is as usual when you hear moderate representatives, namely that they have the ability to explain old Social Democrats with a certain number of years' distance. This is also true in this case. Now it was Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt who was honored. I, as a relatively old Social Democrat, may also be in a number of years. I don't know. We'll see about that. The example taken by Mattias Karlsson, which deals with the different varieties of queue billions, has been severely criticised by the profession. Medical care says that queue billions led to absolutely wrong behaviour in health care. The premium production but did not take into account the health status of patients. The removal of the queue billion is not really a problem. What we have done, instead, is to add 10 billions of wealth during this term of office in order, among other things, to strengthen resources in health care.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-444	Madam President, I would like At the same time, during the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Government has chosen to raise taxes by 6 billion. The cost has been increased by 100 billion. Yet people in Sweden do not feel that things have improved. There are fewer police officers today than four years ago. Queues have increased. Despite what Ingemar Nilsson says, 40 – 50 percent of patients waiting for a first visit to specialised care have waited more than 90 days. They are in suffering and waiting because you have not been able to offer the welfare society that we can all demand.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-446	Madam President, I would like Let me just remind Mattias Karlsson that we inherited a budget deficit of 60 billion because tax cuts of 140 billion gave us some limited opportunities to do what we wanted to do. Nevertheless, we have shown a direction of travel. We have strengthened welfare by a total of 35 billion during the previous term of office. I am proud of this policy, and I propose that the current government should continue its political direction. This is how we create a fairer Sweden.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-448	Madam President, I would like I come from the construction industry most recently, and I was going to talk a little about the work I have done there and what I think we have to do here. It is a question of order and order. I have worked in recent years to prosecute and counteract the kind of scandalous things that we have read about in the newspapers this week. It is about people who are exploited in a horrendous way in conditions that are almost slave-like in a poor working environment. I believe that this is all related to how we protect the Swedish model. In my work as one of the social partners, I have fought and taken on my share of responsibility. I believe that in this House we have a great responsibility to ensure the competitiveness of the social partners. We have a responsibility to secure law and order, and we have a responsibility to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable in society. I believe that we have failed in this and that we have a long way to go, even though this government has addressed some of the abuses that the international market has brought. Competition neutrality is threatened because foreign players are not subject to the openness that in our Swedish model in many ways counteracts tax evasion, among other things. I believe that law and order are not, to a certain extent, followed by foreign rogue operators because they use freedom of movement as an excuse for not having to submit to the controls that otherwise apply to serious operators – Swedish employers. I believe that we have failed in the protection of the most vulnerable in the labour market, and we have allowed the concept of workers to be weakened too much and thus the responsibility of employers. I believe that, by weakening the Employment Protection Act in this House, we are putting the weakest in society at too great a risk. I believe that our responsibility in this House is to lay a firm floor for the most vulnerable and for the social partners. It is a floor to approach that ensures competition neutrality, which means that serious employers do not have to worry about competing with rogue operators who do not hesitate to cheat. I believe that our citizens, both workers and entrepreneurs, expect us to solve these problems. That's what I'm saying. In the next parliamentary term, we need to remove the general fixed term and the abuse of subsidised employment. We must also vigorously combat labour crime.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-456	Madam President, I would like A new term of office is here, and we elected to the Swedish Parliament have been offered new opportunities by the Swedish people to develop Sweden together in this House into one of the world's best countries. I have a background as an economist, lawyer and self-employed. With my experiences in welfare, business and non-profit organizations, I have been able to follow the economic development in Sweden from several different perspectives. We Swedish democrats are working to defend the nation's collective interests through a pragmatic, cross-political approach. This means that we do not pursue either classic right-wing or left-wing politics. In these times when no ideologically framed bloc of parliamentary parties has its own majority as a result of the election result, we all have to raise our eyes beyond the ideological blinds and look at a pragmatic approach. We must have the courage to take courageous decisions and take a stand both in horizontal areas and on individual issues. It is important that we succeed in breaking negative socio-economic trends to replace them with positive economic developments in the labour market, industry, the welfare sector and public finances. Ideological lock-ups must not stand in the way of good socio-economic development. The Swedish Democrats protect a truly vibrant countryside, which requires that all the necessities of life are available in rural areas as well. We want the whole of Sweden to live and thrive. Madam President, I would like Since the financial crisis, Sweden has had a positive economic development, but on the basis that 2008 became a deep economic crisis throughout the Western world, the starting point was really an extreme economic low point. Economic growth in the last ten years can therefore also be described from a different point of view as a recovery from unusually low levels. The entire industrialized world has experienced strong growth, which means that the rise cannot be attributed to the Swedish government alone. To describe the economy in an excessively positive light is, therefore, something that carries a great risk. In the delusion of laziness and joy, it can be very fast to suddenly run into a rock wall around the corner when the next economic downturn comes as a letter in the mail. Forecasts already point to peak price quotations in the financial markets, which have historically led to a high risk and tended to be a time when the next recession is imminent. This will, of course, have an impact on the future budgetary work. The Swedish democrats today have several objectives with fiscal policy. We must ensure the financing of the public sector, and we want to optimise and streamline the tax system. We want to simplify companies' tax conditions, increase savings and reduce household indebtedness. Differences need to be levelled out and fiscal cohesion needs to be increased. We must strengthen the legitimacy of the tax system among the population, stimulate positive behaviour and combat tax evasion and tax evasion. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by highlighting that we want to defend the overall interests of the nation through a pragmatic fiscal policy for a living countryside and ensure that we have the opportunity to deal with the next economic downturn.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-466	Madam President, I would like In my morning paper I was able to read this morning about the research forecast for future consumption: in 2030, consumers will not accept products and services that are not sustainably produced. It is encouraging, although I hope, of course, that through both consumer influence and political decisions we will steer towards sustainable consumption and thus a sustainable future much earlier. We are constantly reminded both by climate and by our local environment that not only something but a great deal needs to be done to hand over sustainable and safe habitats to our children and grandchildren. I myself come from Gotland, Madam President, where we work feverishly to secure our society in different ways, partly by fighting for a third electric cable, which we do with a lot of power, and partly by changing in a short time to a fully renewable type of energy. Yes, politics makes a difference. I am proud to belong to one of the parties in government that has put a great deal of resources into promoting a sustainable society. The ambition level is high: Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Ambitious? Absolutely, but not impossible. If we are to meet the commitments we are committed to, massive efforts are needed, and we have clearly shown that we are prepared to give priority to environmental and climate action without compromising equal welfare. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight the industrial and climate issues, which give that push in the right direction towards a more climate-smart life. Climate change, for example, has reduced CO2 emissions by 800 000 tonnes annually, and the change of fuel is rolling around at all of Sweden's petrol stations. Politics, like I said, makes a difference. It's supposed to be easy to do the right thing. It is an important basic rule in political craftsmanship. It must be easier to recycle and live in harmony with the environment and climate. Where necessary, however, we must not be afraid to resort to legislation. The environment and people must be better protected against harmful substances. We must step up efforts to protect our waters, our vital drinking water and, of course, our waters. Madam President, I would like I have good hope for the future for many reasons. However, I am also humbled by the fact that it will take a great deal of work and a lot of concessions, not least in this House, to be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye and say that we have actually done what we have been able to do to ensure sustainable and secure habitats for them.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-472	Madam President, I would like Last Saturday the thermometer at home in Skåne showed 23 degrees. In several localities, heat records were broken, and if we ignore the unique parliamentary situation, that's just how 2018 will go to the history books: as an extremely hot year with widespread drought that showed how vulnerable our society is. We should not overwhelm in a single year, but we know that with the changed climate there is an increased risk of extreme weather. Sea levels are rising and vulnerable ecosystems are living under serious threats. This threat requires answers. We do not have time for measures that at best make a difference to the margin. Instead, strong measures are needed to reduce emissions and stop the rise in temperature, while strengthening society to meet the effects that we can already see. Madam President, I would like Sweden is often referred to as a green forerunner. The Red-Green Government has used that claim to justify a series of rather dubious measures. I am convinced that it has been done with good intentions. But ineffective measures are precisely what risks undermining our position as a green forerunner. Indeed, showing a large climate budget is not enough. On the contrary – the climate issue requires long-term sustainable solutions that seriously tackle real problems. A real pioneer country is a country that can handle three things in particular, I would say. Firstly, it must be possible to combine a strong economy with reduced emissions. For a strong economy that can manage climate work, companies that are healthy and able to grow are required. We need a nutrition-friendly policy that creates the conditions for sustainable growth combined with reduced emissions. We Moderates see this whole, where sustainability is about social, environmental and economic considerations. During the alliance government, emissions decreased by nearly 20 per cent, while growth increased by 10 per cent. Unfortunately, Madam President, things now look different. In both 2016 and 2017, emissions increased, and this trend continues. I do not blame the Red-Green Government for being responsible for this alone. Developments obviously depend on several factors. But it can't go on. If we are to succeed, we must focus our resources on those areas where emissions are greatest. In Sweden it is about the basic industry and the transport sector. We Moderates propose climate reductions of SEK 300 million for industrial companies investing in climate-friendly technology. We want to expand charging infrastructure for green transport throughout the country. We are behind increased involvement of biofuels, and we want to extend the railways – in short, a strong policy to reduce our own emissions. Secondly, Sweden has a unique opportunity to contribute to technological leaps through research and development. We spend far more than the government on environmental research, and in the next research proposal we want to devote more to research on how the base industry's emissions can be reduced. If small Sweden can help revolutionise the entire process of manufacturing steel by moving from carbon to hydrogen, we can not only reduce our own emissions but also make global climate benefits. Thirdly, we are going to help other countries. It's not about either or. It's about both. While reducing our emissions, we must help others, and that is why we are investing more in aid and international climate investment. Finally, we have a great strength in the global climate debate. Seven out of eight parliamentary parties agree on the world's perhaps most ambitious climate targets. We'll take care of that.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-484	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for your speech. I couldn't help but take a line to sort things out. Let's start by thinking about who can do the most. Is it those who have a budget with a surplus or those who have a budget with a deficit? When can you make bets? I think it is when you have a budget with surpluses. What has actually happened during the past parliamentary term is that we have attracted investments to Sweden. We will build Europe's largest battery factory in Skellefteå. The woodhouse industry is growing. The felling of forests is increasing. We can make climate-smart products of the forest in more and more ways. What we haven't really done is the supply of skills. That is why, as Maria Malmer Stenergard says, we must invest in skills development. But there's a lot missing from the Moderates.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-488	Madam President, I would like I did not hear any question, but I am glad that Isak From took a line so that I have the opportunity to talk a little more about our climate policy. I cannot fail to take up the forest in this change of line. The forest is a unique resource that we have in Sweden. It can contribute with renewable materials and absorb carbon dioxide. It is about us being able to create the conditions for sustainable use of the forest. Unfortunately, during the previous term of office, we have seen that the Social Democrats were prepared to put this at risk. Generation after generation has accounted for the fine values that we see in Swedish forests today. Now, uncertainty has been created by the policies we have seen in the past parliamentary term and the threat we have seen from the European Union. Yet the Social Democrats have been completely passive – or, when they have actually acted, have damaged the long-term sustainability of forestry. How do the Social Democrats want to change this policy in the next parliamentary term?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-491	Madam President, I would like The rhetorical question was who could do more, the one with a surplus or the one with a deficit. Maybe it's not that easy to answer. I am grateful to Maria Stenergard for addressing forestry policy. There you can be a little self-critical, because it is in fact the case that all the legislation on the forest that has been adopted in this House has come from bourgeois governments. The Species Protection Decree was implemented by the former bourgeois government. The Bill Limits in Forests was adopted and implemented by the bourgeois government. The Timmer Directive, which deals with dealing with forest conservation, was adopted by the bourgeois government. In fact, during the past term of office, we have increased the yield from sustainable forestry. We're proud of that.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-494	Madam President, I would like I'm glad you're addressing the forestry issue, Isak From. But we must be well aware that the laws passed in this House are not the only thing that matters to forestry policy. Management and governance in public operations also play a major role, where the previous government has failed. There has been enormous uncertainty about the attitude of the authorities towards forestry. That's something we want to change in the next parliamentary term if we just get the chance.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria, for a very interesting speech in several parts! What I am thinking about is the reduction in the environmental and climate budget proposed by the Moderates. I wonder how the Moderates reason there. At the same time, we seem to have common approaches to doing more. We need to do much more intensive work to achieve the environmental objectives – 14 out of 16 are not achieved. How can we go further and get a more ambitious environment and climate policy when you propose such huge reductions in the environment and climate budget?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for the question! We Moderates do not put the greatest value in exactly how many crowns you invest in a budget, but what matters most to us is what the effect is. As I mentioned in my speech, emissions were almost 20% below the level of the alliance government. Unfortunately, they have been increasing for two years now. For us, this is perhaps the most relevant way of measuring what you do with your climate budget. Unfortunately, the government does not see it that way. In the spring, the results of the policy were presented. In the school area, they looked at the school results. In terms of surplus targets, surpluses were counted. But when you looked at the climate, you only counted how many crowns you have invested in a budget. That's not very relevant. The relevant aspect is the climate benefit created with its budget, and there are several assessors who believe that our budget is more beneficial to the climate globally than the government.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-503	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to two points made by Maria Stenergard. In her speech, she spoke about long-term sustainable solutions. That sounds incredibly exciting. However, I would like to ask how it is that we want long-term sustainable solutions but still do not want to embrace investment in charging infrastructure, as, for example, climate change would admit.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-505	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for giving me the opportunity to straighten out that question mark! We have picked out the part of the Climate Klivet that is about expanding charging infrastructure because we see that it is one of the more cost-effective measures. So it's a misconception. We set aside SEK 100 million annually to do so. However, in large part many expert authorities, such as the Konjunkturinstitutet, consider that the climate class unfortunately does not give enough bang for the buck. We therefore believe that the climate issue should be better addressed. Seven out of eight of the government's actions are deemed ineffective, and we cannot afford that if we are really going to cope with the climate.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-508	Madam President, I would like We have had an election campaign that put the climate issue high on the agenda. The debate came to be very marked by fear, intimidation and sometimes purely dystopian theories and future scenarios. This is unfortunate. Not that the climate issue is not important or that there is nothing to worry about. We should, of course, take research seriously. We will take the climate issue seriously. It's not even something we need to discuss. But we in this House are politicians. We have a responsibility to make rationally based decisions that help solve the problems and reduce emissions at global level. If we are stuck in the talk of doomsday theories and dystopian doom scenarios, we will not make well-balanced, rationally based decisions. And that is a bit where we are today. Madam President, I would like There is something seriously wrong with the Swedish climate debate when a large part of it is about whether to build extremely expensive fast tracks between our big cities in order to reduce emissions sometime late in this century and when we spend billions on financing the purchase of electric bicycles with no measurable effect on climate policy or spending tax money on climate anxiety therapy courses. In fact, expert authorities working for the government note that the government's policy increases the socio-economic costs further without reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. So we have a serious problem, and it is a serious problem that we have a policy that definitely does not solve it. It is a disastrously poor policy, a policy that costs an incredible amount of money without helping to reduce emissions at a global level. For example, we can discuss the transport sector and the so-called change of fuel. We mix in lots of biofuels in our diesel, and that sounds good. You can talk about green carbon atoms. The problem is, they don't really exist. The color of all carbon atoms is the same. It is true that, of what we are thinking today in our diesel cars, about 44% of the biofuels come from palm oil. It is palm oil-based fuels, and palm oil helps to devastate forests. It deletes biodiversity and is directly harmful to animal life. The researchers agree that palm oil also contributes to significantly higher emissions than fossil diesel. So why should we mix this in our thoughts? That is extremely bad politics. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to work to improve the climate targets so that they are formulated as the expert authorities want. We want the targets to be based on reducing emissions at the global level at the lowest possible cost, i.e. that the investments are made where as much per krona as possible is spent, and we want the investments in research to be guided. Today, over 80% of all energy comes from fossil energy sources, and we simply need to find ways to better extract energy cost-effectively. Climate policy must therefore be tightened up. It must be effective and useful where it matters. Now that we have a stronger non-socialist majority in Parliament, my hope is that we can also gain more from effective climate policy in the future. Last year we and the bourgeois parties had several announcements in the Riksdag about the need for a more effective climate policy. Now it is up to us e-socialist politicians to try to deliver such a policy.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-517	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Kinnunen for his speech. I shall perhaps call the Swedish Democrats the fossil party, because you are a fossil hugger where you stand. The change of fuel in all honor, and I can agree that palm oil may not be what we should have in the tank. But at some point and somewhere, we have to start changing. The industry has asked for long-term rules of play in order to actually invest. What the previous Parliament and this government have decided on is to give the industry and consumers long-term rules of the game, so that we can get the industry to invest in Sweden and increase the self-sufficiency of biofuels in Sweden and so that consumers can refuel better fuel in their diesel cars. Isn't that good, Martin Kinnunen?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-519	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is good if we can refuel better fuels. But why should we move on to something bad? Why should we start refuelling palm oil-based fuels? It's an electrification of the automotive sector in progress. It is better to support it, to work with the infrastructure and simply wait for this development instead of steering us on a bad fast track that kills orangutans, that knocks out biodiversity and increases emissions. We want to reduce emissions. Why, then, should we refuel palm oil-based fuels that have significantly higher emission values than fossil diesel? All carbon atoms are equal, and we should simply try to release as few as possible.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-520	Madam President, I would like The environmental budget from last year's current year is SEK 10 772 788 000. So it's a huge amount of money. Of this money, the Swedish Democrats propose reductions of 3.44 billion. So there are a lot of efforts that are not going to happen. We don't attract the transition. Sweden should be at the forefront. That is why we are attracting investors from outside, and that is why we are going to build Europe's largest battery factory up in Västerbotten. We do that because we lead the transition, Martin Kinnunen.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-521	Madam President, I would like Isak From is talking about a huge amount of money. I agree with him that it is a huge amount of money when you invest a huge amount of money in things that do little good. We have plenty of areas in this country that need reinforcements. It's about school, law enforcement and health care. Then spending money on climate anxiety therapy and electric bicycles is a mockery of all the people who are experiencing these enormous problems around society. So the huge amount of money is one of the main problems.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-522	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank you for your confidence in being here and being one of those who will lead Sweden forward over the next four years. It is certainly a trial period right now, and responsibility rests heavily on us Members. This is precisely why this issue, the environmental and climate issue, is particularly important. It does not care about national boundaries, and it does not care who is responsible for emissions. And frankly, it does not care who is Prime Minister in Sweden either. Even without government, we must clearly pursue a policy that slows down harmful climate emissions. This requires an active environmental policy, which dares to take decisions on structural measures. My work in life at home in Nora and my political focus in the Center Party has been on the green industries – forest, agriculture and rural development. To be part of Sweden's most important industry, namely forestry, obliges. The forestry industry is the industry with the largest net export of all. The fact that growing forests bind carbon dioxide is a fact. In my opinion, it is also obvious that when the forest grows old and growth declines, this effect disappears. Then the forest only binds the carbon dioxide that is there and then. It doesn't bring up any new ones. It is in favour of active forestry, where you cut, plant, clear and cull the forest once it has grown. The growing forest today binds almost as much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere as total emissions – about 50 million tonnes. Madam President, I would like I am concerned about the problems facing forestry and forest owners today, namely a conflict in which forestry and biodiversity conservation are opposed. I would like to say that this is a marked conflict, because I am convinced that they do not stand in opposition to each other. We've never had as much forest as we have today. The growth exceeds the level of felling by a good margin. The fact that we have a large proportion of private forest owners is a guarantee of diversity in itself. Nevertheless, it is usually the private forest owners who are in conflict with authorities in the case of endangered species, largely because of rigid rules and complicated directives. The Species Protection Regulation, which is essentially based on the EU directive for the protection of endangered species, can have consequences that can stop entire wind power projects. I and the Center Party believe that the Species Protection Regulation needs to be reviewed in order to make it more legally secure. Madam President, I would like Ownership rights are enshrined in the Swedish Constitution. The risk of a trader being deprived of his property, or of a dead hand being placed on the business, is a legal scandal. This is happening today because authorities believe that areas need to be saved in order to protect biodiversity, even though there is no money for fair compensation. The forest today offers great opportunities for new climate-smart materials and products – fossil-free fuels, textiles, alternatives to plastics and more. Profitable forestry is good for the environment. The government's proposal on mileage tax, or road wear charge, is purely counterproductive for the green industry. Please expand the track network, so that there is an opportunity to switch from road to rail, but do not impose penalties before. Finally, I wonder why forest owners should take greater responsibility than other entrepreneurs for climate change. Why is the forestry industry expected to forgo profits or accept costly costs of some kind of moral responsibility when other industries or services are not expected to do so? For the environment and the climate, we need more active foresters, men and women. The Center Party believes that the solution is profitable forestry, and it is necessary for the climate change.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-533	Madam President, I would like It is now a little over a week since we were able to take note of the climate report from the IPCC. The headlines that followed were enough to give me pain in the stomach and pain in the heart. Ten years, that's what we have to reverse the trend. It's a pitiful short moment. The fact that not all the world's activities stopped at that moment may not really surprise me, but it makes me miserable. The collective ostrich behaviour that we have developed when it comes to the climate threat must be brought to an end. The UN climate report is clear: it is man's greenhouse gas emissions that make it warmer, ice melts and sea levels rise. Earth's temperature has already increased with approaching re 1 degree since the 1880s. Greenland and Antarctic ice is decreasing, and the rate of decline is increasing. The number of people fleeing climate change, such as rising sea levels or widespread drought, is also increasing. Natural disasters are on the increase and are causing more devastation today as a result of changes in the climate. The Left Party strives for climate justice. Today, capitalism distributes earth's resources extremely unequally. According to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, it is the rich countries that now have a historic responsibility to reduce their emissions. The rich thus account for a greater proportion of emissions than those living in poverty. More money leads to higher consumption, which leads to higher emissions. It's a straight and logical line. The richest 10% account for half of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. Greenhouse gas emissions thus follow households' incomes clearly, and policy decisions are needed for rich countries to reduce their environmental and climate impact and for poor countries to have an opportunity to develop. It is also interesting to see the difference in the impact between men and women. Several studies have been carried out to show that men have a greater climate impact than women, especially when it comes to transport. Women, for example, travel collectively to a greater extent than men. Man is the cause. That is why we must also be the solution. The Left Party believes that the climate crisis did not arise from bad choices made by individuals. It comes from basic social structures – structures that we can only change together. The Left Party wants investments to change Sweden and create green jobs. We need strong investments in renewable energy, electricity grids, rail, bicycle and public transport, energy renovations and climate-smart housing. We want to prioritise a strong and long-term expansion of welfare activities, education and culture. Public procurement is also central to coping with climate change, where both the environment and climate and social considerations have to weigh more heavily than the quest for low costs. Since we see that economic inequality is reflected in climate inequality, we want to see tax increases on the highest incomes and wealth as well as on things that destroy the environment. This is needed in order to increase public investment and develop well-being. In order to drive investment in the transition, the Left Party wants to introduce, among other things, a state green investment bank. The IPCC explains that we need to invest heavily in order to have a chance at all. 70 - 85% of all electricity must be renewable by 2050, and all coal must be removed. This means investments corresponding to nearly SEK 22 000 billion to 2035. It's breathtaking sums of money. Well, then we're just starting to talk about energy. The hard years we're so happy to save because I think I'm here already. This is where we're gonna bet.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-542	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin, for your maiden speech in this Chamber! Welcome to the Riksdag! I look forward to many exciting debates with you. This was an ideologically driven speech. I really appreciate that. I think it is important that ideology is made clear in politics. As a moderate, I would like to highlight the importance of capitalism and free enterprise in addressing the climate challenge. If we are to have an opportunity to reduce our emissions and make more countries want to take responsibility for the climate challenge, we must show that it is possible to reconcile rapidly declining emissions with strong economic development. We succeeded in doing so in the Alliance during our time in power. Unfortunately, the government supported by Elin Segerlind has not succeeded. It was distressing not to hear the words of Elin Segerlind in a positive sense. In what way does the Left Party pursue a policy that allows companies to be part of the solution rather than part of the problem?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-546	Madam President, I would like Companies are by no means part of the problem. When it comes to, for example, conversion, companies and their will and ability are of course very important. It is also a question of us as a society being able to give them the opportunity to make the changes they need to make. It's a bit like what we've talked about here before – it's about giving long-term rules of the game and showing the way for what will apply through legislation and so on in the coming years. Companies are very important, especially in rural areas. Companies are crucial to its development.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-548	Madam President, I would like For a conversion to take place, there must be something to change. Here I am very critical of Left Party politics. They try to tax large parts of Swedish business and not least rural areas to death. That's not the way forward. What we need is a better business environment. We need a policy that stimulates technological development and research, not a cost-driven and wasteful policy, as the Left Party is pushing. As my colleague said, climate is an acute challenge. Then we cannot afford an inefficient climate policy.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-549	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think either of us wants an inefficient climate policy. It is not possible to apply the same solutions throughout Sweden. Some subsidies work in cities while others work in rural areas. There we have a common responsibility for designing a good policy that will last for many years to come.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-551	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a long history of small forest owners managing their forests according to the law's intentions and best ability. Farmers and forest owners have for a long time had the confidence to manage and manage the forest and land they own under freedom and in a responsible manner. Responsible farming has contributed positively to climate benefits, biodiversity and open landscapes. At the same time, it produces food and provides forest raw materials and energy. It creates growth and jobs. Forestry and the forest industry are industries that account for the largest net export income in Sweden. We have sustainable forestry that ensures biodiversity and regrowth. At the same time, forests will play an increasingly important role in the ongoing climate transition. 330,000 forest owners think a little differently. That is why we have the diversity that we are seeing today. It doesn't have to be created with government pointers. Madam President, I would like By using the forest actively and using forest raw materials to replace fossil energy and energy-intensive building materials, we get the greatest climate benefit from the forest in the longer term. For each harvested forest cubic metre, emissions to the atmosphere are reduced by just under 500 kilos of carbon dioxide. This is shown by analyses published in Forest magazine. The potential of forests to benefit the climate is significant, and what determines the climate benefit is how much we can increase growth and thus the availability of forest raw materials and how we prioritise using it. "This is what Tomas Lundmark, professor of forest management at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, says. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen developments that have gone in the wrong direction. Ownership and use rights are increasingly under threat, and this with the good memory of the Government of Lövven and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. We even see state intervention where landowners do not receive financial compensation. These restrictions make active forestry difficult or even impossible. Today, forest owners are prohibited from using parts of their land that are considered to be of extra protection value, but the protected environment is created by the forest owner himself and his own management and use of his own land in collaboration with nature. Madam President, I would like If these restrictions on the right to farm their forests and land continue, our ability to meet the climate challenges will be drastically reduced. If we are to have sustainable and climate-friendly agriculture and forestry, open landscapes, fossil-free energy and forests and land accessible to the public, we must also give forest owners the trust they deserve. Researchers at SLU have analysed what happens if you leave the forest for free development instead of using it. It was found that in the short term this can be perceived as a very climate-smart forestry. Each cubic metre binds 700 to 900 kilos of carbon dioxide. But the forest sooner or later comes to a point where it stops growing for age reasons and stops taking up carbon dioxide to eventually die and then emits carbon dioxide. Actively managed forest gets greater growth and binds more carbon dioxide than set aside nature reserves that are left to their own fate. Naturally, we must protect biodiversity. The fact that this can happen at the same time as ownership and forestry are safeguarded has been demonstrated by the former alliance government. We Christian Democrats want first and foremost to use voluntary methods. We therefore advocate land change with public owners, voluntary provisions, conservation considerations and so on. Madam President, I would like The solutions for the future are to a large extent available in the green economy. That is why ownership and use rights must be strengthened and not eroded in the way we see it now. Our Swedish forest owners must have a legal certainty worthy of the name, so that the green industries can grow and create the values that benefit the climate and thus all of us.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-560	Madam President, I would like There is very much talk about ownership and the private actors who manage forests, but to just see forests as a forest raw material and at the same time try to talk about sustainability is not possible. We must see the forest beyond all the trees, and the forest is not only a natural resource suitable for man to exploit for our economic interests. If we do not see the forest for all the trees, we cannot see all those who live in the trees either. When we talk about human-made biodiversity, it is true in some environments, but many forests of high biological value – which are home to more than half of the Swedish Red List – are created by a long continuity of low or no human activity.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-562	Madam President, I would like Forest owners who have land that is bad and difficult to use or where the species that Rebecka Le Moine refers to are today very much voluntarily leaving this land – much more than the state demands. Voluntary provisions are large, and this is done on a voluntary basis. In fact, it is people who own the forest. It's not public property. Unfortunately, many people seem to believe that the forest is public property because of the right of public access. I protect the right of public access – it's very important – but it's actually someone who inherited the forest or invested money in it. Therefore, the people who have the forest must be allowed to use it. Then, of course, we have the opportunity to protect areas that are particularly worthy of protection, and we shall do so. But then it should be paid; it is very important.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-565	Madam President, I would like I agree that the voluntary provisions made are very important, and the private landowners will have all the gratitude for that. It is also very important that we talk about biologically relevant protection. It has to be up to a certain size – to a certain area – and there has to be a certain long-term perspective. Therefore, voluntary provisions must be transparent and better accounted for than is the case today.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-567	Madam President, I would like To conclude: No forest owner can live on gratitude. Even forest owners live on money.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-568	Madam President, I would like The IPCC has recently presented a report showing that it will be possible to reach the Paris climate target of 1.5 degrees, but that this requires considerable effort and that we now need to accelerate the pace of climate change. The report also shows that the consequences of higher warming are dramatically high and threaten our chances of a good human life on earth. Climate change is not the only challenge we face. Other major megatrends that affect us are value changes, demographic changes, technological developments, globalisation and internationalisation. There is every reason to point out that there are ways to meet several challenges at the same time. Digitalisation will also be important in meeting the climate challenge, and values of a democratic world are important in meeting climate goals. Something that I am proud of is that Sweden, with the Green Party in the government, aims to become the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. The climate policy framework is the most important climate reform in Swedish history. The framework was adopted here in the Riksdag in 2017. It consists of a climate law, sharp climate targets and a climate policy council. The decision on climate change is a central part of Sweden's commitment to the Paris Agreement. It is important that Sweden invests in becoming climate positive. I would like to take this opportunity to quote the National Coordinator for Fossil Free Sweden, Svante Axelsson: a paradox is that many people seem to be more afraid of medicine than of the disease, despite the fact that a fossil-free modern welfare society looks very attractive. To spread the positive picture together is the best vaccine against hopelessness. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I am a new member of the Riksdag and come from Uppsala, where I have been a municipal councillor with responsibility for climate and the environment. Uppsala was named a clear global winner in the One Planet City Challenge in September this year. It's WWF's competition for the world's best climate town. Previous winners are large world cities such as Vancouver and Paris. A small town in a small country can be a big leader, and being a role model is one of the most important things Sweden can contribute to international climate work. The international jury behind the motivation said that Uppsala has a climate leadership and scientifically set climate targets and that Uppsala makes major investments in mobility and renewable energy. Uppsala's climate goal is to become fossil-free in 2030 and climate-positive in 2050. Being climate positive is a goal, but it is also an attitude and an approach. Attitude is important; it creates commitment. Uppsala works actively with the universities, the business community and various organisations. Uppsala has reduced its bran food emissions by 10 per cent in two years. The municipalities can clearly make a major contribution to Sweden's reaching climate targets, and there is a development opportunity for the municipalities' work in the future when we need to accelerate the pace of climate change.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-579	Madam President, I would like Perhaps the climate crisis is mankind's most difficult challenge. We Social Democrats want to take on this task through clear and tough climate targets and by modernising Sweden. During the previous term of office, the government has made historically large climate investments, but we need to do more. Sweden can make a difference. We in Sweden have a strong tradition of changing. With the transition towards a fossil-free society, we face the climate threat and can at the same time create new green jobs. Through an active climate policy, Sweden takes precedence and invests in climate-friendly technology, which strengthens our companies' competitiveness. We will make it profitable for companies to act in an environmentally friendly manner and must therefore continue with climate investments in industry. Through, for example, Industriklivet, Sweden can become the first in the world with fossil-free steel production through the Hybrid project. Madam President, I would like The country's municipalities have a major responsibility for the transition to sustainable urban development, the development of smart cities, waste management and public transport. Climate change has led to important investments for the climate throughout the country, and with the urban environment agreements we have less climate impact in the cities. Reducing emissions in the transport sector is crucial to cope with the change. In the forthcoming climate strategy, we must map out the way forward for the reduction obligation. In it we have a powerful tool for large emission reductions. Emissions from aviation must also be reduced. Aviation tax should remain, and we want to review the possibility of introducing instruments for more green approaches and introducing reduction obligations and the possibility of biofuel inclusion for aviation as well. We are also ready to realise the greatest train venture in modern times. An important starting point in climate policy must be to make it easier for people to take on climate responsibility in their own daily lives. We must invest in sustainable consumption and a circular economy. Madam President, I would like Sweden must be a strong force in the UN and the EU for a more ambitious climate policy. Among other things, it is a question of moving forward internationally in order to strengthen the commitments contained in the Paris Agreement. We must work to phase out coal power in the EU, to make emissions trading stricter and to strengthen the green fund supporting climate action in developing countries. We need a world society that goes from words to action. The effects of climate change are frighteningly tangible. More vulnerable are the hundreds of millions of people still living in extreme poverty. Now we do not need more big promises, but concrete action to achieve the ambitious goals that have been set. Madam President, I would like The climate is the great destiny of our time. Together we can make sure to combat the climate threat and make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare nation.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-590	Madam President, I would like Hydropower is and has historically been the backbone of Swedish electricity production. This is a truth that I think most people can join. Over the last ten years, views on the role of hydropower have varied. The perception that hydroelectric electricity is important and meets the demands we have for climate-smart electricity generation has recently come into conflict with other environmental interests and raised concerns about the future of small-scale hydropower. In the Energy Agreement it was stated that hydropower has a given place in our energy system, also in the future. It was also stated that hydropower should of course have an environmental permit and that the permit process should be designed in such a way that it does not become economically burdensome for the individual hydropower owner. That sounds, Madam President, so obvious and so simple. But this is where the big challenge comes in. Who holds the baton when the decision of the Energy Agreement is to be interpreted and implemented? Anyone who has the interpreter can draw clear parliamentary decisions to extremes that make the decisions hardly recognisable. That's why with some concern we received the bill Water Environment and v atenkraft from Minister of the Environment Karolina Skog, MP. It describes how the regulatory framework for small-scale hydroelectric power is to be designed. A lot in the proposal was good. It was stated that small hydropower has an important role to play in our electricity generation. With iti food threats and ever-increasing wind and solar-dependent electricity generation in the grid, we need to have a force that can store electricity until the times when it does not blow or the sun does not shine. Among the renewables, only hydropower today meets this requirement. Madam President, I would like However, the writings could have been clearer. Hydropower is a socially important activity. We wanted the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats and the Centers, to be included in the proposal that was debated in this House on 13 June. We think it would be an important signal to send to all hydropower owners in Sweden and to the authorities that are now tasked with implementing the changes that we want to secure the future of hydropower. Unfortunately, this writing was not included. We are also concerned that Sweden will not make full use of the exemptions allowed by EU law to facilitate the maintenance of small-scale hydropower. We also see concerns in the rating of our water resources by the authorities. These are classifications that are so harsh that only decommissioning of power plants remains to meet the environmental requirements that are set. The objectives of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Centers with the Energy Agreement and the Water Environment and Hydropower Bill are clear: We want to retain small-scale hydropower, and we want small-scale hydropower to be defined as a socially important activity. It is good that there will be a clear and long-term regulatory framework, but it is at least as important that this framework is now designed and implemented so that the spirit of the parliamentary decision is fulfilled. The results of the decision on the aquatic environment and hydropower will be followed up by a control post after 18 months. If the result does not meet the Parliament's objective of securing the future of hydroelectric power, we do not want hydroelectric power plants to be dismantled, but we want the decision to be demolished and revised. The best guarantee for the energy agreement is now that we will have a moderate-led alliance government that will secure the future of small-scale hydropower. Our decisions must be fulfilled right into the tile.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-601	Madam President, I would like During the previous parliamentary term, the Riksdag made several wise decisions with a broad majority, which in the short term were important for Swedish energy supply. The power tax on nuclear power was removed. The sharply increased property tax on hydropower began to scale down to the normal level of industrial property tax. Similarly, the extraction agenda that has existed in relation to small hydroelectric power was slowed down and new legislation has come into place. The political will is obvious, but it remains to be seen whether this is also being observed at the level of the authorities. These were decisions that were directly decisive for individual power plants in the short term, but also in order for Sweden to continue to be able to cope with the power balance that must be maintained during the winter. Madam President, I would like At the same time, Sweden continues to be a major exporter of electricity, which is to be noted mainly from those parties that are pushing for even more subsidies and subsidies to weather-dependent power generation. From the same source, there is never any mention of Sweden's need for effect during the winter or what security of supply we will be satisfied with. The problem remains that many in this congregation do not understand the difference between power and energy. For the winter that is now coming, it is the first time that Swedish power grids in their power balance reports expect that Sweden will not be able to cope with its electricity supply. It is also expected that we will run the oil-fired power plants in Karlshamn in full. At the same time, as a result of this policy, we will increase our dependence on imports of coal-based electricity production from our neighbouring countries. In addition, a policy has been pursued that will allow further closures of nuclear reactors to wait when Ringhals l and 2 will be halted in the next two years. This puts Sweden in a situation that we have not had since commercial nuclear power was expanded in Sweden. You have to go back to the 1970s to find a similar situation with a lack of power in Sweden. Vattenfall's decision is economically rational, as it is more profitable to build new electricity generation with lower availability supported by politically decided subsidies, which make this possible. However, there is every reason to consider whether the state should use its own energy company to impair Swedish security of supply one and destroy the conditions for the energy-intensive industry to operate in Sweden. This risks having far greater socio-economic consequences. The problem with the energy policy in place is precisely that it has no direction towards security of supply or that it will have an impact when the need is greatest. In addition to the fact that energy policy lacks an objective of security of supply, no single authority is responsible for the same. Instead, responsibility for security of supply is divided into a number of roles and actors, but no one has the overall responsibility. The old conviction that everyone's responsibility is nobody's responsibility seems to apply in this context as well. Madam President, I would like In order to continue to ensure that everyone has access to electricity during all hours of the year and that the power system is characterised by both high power quality and high operational reliability, work during this term must be about dealing with the current power shortage. The Swedish Democrats' entry is that Sweden must set a target for security of supply that the future energy policy will aim to achieve. We also think that the state through Vattenfall should stop the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 that is pending to push them forward throughout their technical lifetime. This is absolutely essential in order to avoid a situation that is undesirable to anyone in the short term.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-610	Madam President, I would like I want to ask you a very simple question in this line. Of the parties that have concluded the energy agreement, most of them agree that we should not give subsidies to individual power strokes. There is much talk of the economic impact of not having a power reserve, but I think we should be clear about what it costs to push nuclear power further. The Swedish democrats have also said that they not only want the power plants that exist today to be continued but that they want to invest in research into fourth generation nuclear power and finance a state research reactor. My simple question is where the money will come from in a situation where we need to invest everything we have in developing a stable, robust and renewable energy system.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-613	Madam President, I would like That is, of course, the second part of the energy agreement: massive subsidies for individual types of power are identified. Above all, it is the weather-dependent forces that pick up most of the subsidies that exist. It's also the only thing that's being built. We have a politically-controlled power system which has ignored the fact that it is a liberalised market and has put the market out of play. As far as the funding of the research reactor is concerned, it is something that is part of the energy research budget that exists and that the state has. Although, for example, the impact tax has brought almost SEK 5 billion annually to the Treasury, there has not been anything that has returned to research in order, for example, to secure expertise in the industry or to look at new technology, and then it is just over 11⁄2 billion that we distribute in energy research grants. We believe that there should also be a clear scope for nuclear research in Sweden.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-615	Madam President, I would like I am, perhaps unsurprisingly, in view of the party and the alliance I represent, economically liberal – perhaps more economically liberal than most in this Chamber. But I think there is reason to deviate from a pure economic liberalism when it comes to solving the fate of my generation. It is about finding out, and showing the rest of the world that it is possible to achieve, a sustainable, robust and renewable energy system. I am willing to put state resources there, but then we are not talking about the enormous resources that are actually required if we are to have fourth generation nuclear power. I do not see this in the Swedish Democrats' budget either. Where do you take the money?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-617	Madam President, I would like I would urge a Member of this House, Magnus Ek, to look at our budget. There is a grant of SEK 150 million each year, and it is money that fits within the energy research team. What is being pushed forward with this energy agreement is that we have to burn more with our oil-fired power plants in Karlshamn. It doesn't emit any less carbon dioxide. We import coal power from Denmark, Germany and Poland, and that does not lead to less emissions. Instead, the consequences of the policy in place are lower security of supply and increased emissions, and that is something that the Swedish democrats are not up to.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-619	Madam President, I would like Imagine a future in which almost all life in the oceans has died. Imagine that large parts of the world's continents have been swallowed up by the oceans and that the people who have survived have been allowed to flee to high areas. It is the greatest extinction of species and animals during the 4.5 billion year history of the earth; about 90 percent of the species may have died out. This is a scenario that many of the climate scientists, really most of them, actually agree about can be just a couple of generations away. A few generations away, it can be reality — an earth approaching inhabitability. We already know that the earth's average temperature has increased considerably since the 19th century. Right now, with the report that came from the UN Panel on Climate Change last week, many of us in the world are reacting with dismay at what is about to happen. You're very worried about an average temperature increase of 1.5 degrees. The scenario I just described, where the earth is almost uninhabitable, occurs when the average temperature has increased by about 6 degrees. It may not sound much at 6 degrees a summer when it is 22 or 28 degrees Fahrenheit, but raising the sub-temperature of the earth by 6 degrees Fahrenheit has devastating consequences. I want to talk about this here today, in the public debate, because it is something that concerns all political subjects. That is something we really need to take very seriously, and that report last week shows that we must now quickly – urgently – change our whole society. We not only need to change in Sweden, but we need to change the world. These questions have been in my mind for many years, but in the last week I have to say that I have actually had nightmares about it. I've been thinking about it all along, talking to friends and family about it and talking to colleagues in politics about it. We need to realize that we need to do something ourselves. We cannot just make laws and do what we already do – Sweden already has a climate policy that is actually the world leader – but we in this House must set an example. If we want other people to change, we also have to change ourselves. Therefore, I think we should consider what we can do as Members of Parliament, such as the parliamentary administration and as a elected assembly. What can we do to change? One thing is to stop carrying out the thousands of flights we make every year as Members of Parliament and officials of the Riksdag. It is untenable and something we can't do anymore. If you have to start making a big change in ten years, we have to lead the way. We should also compensate climate change for the trips that are made. This year, we will finally begin climate compensation here in Parliament for travel abroad, but we are not doing it for domestic flights. Of course, it must also be a natural part. There are many such things that we must make concrete proposals for and also start to implement here in Parliament. Something you might think is a small thing is where the energy in here comes from, but it's no small thing. Energy is also being discussed here, and we should have solar panels all over Parliament's roof. We should have solar panels on every government building, and we would be happy to start with all Parliament buildings. In fact, we should also start serving more vegan food here in Parliament. Vegan diet should be the norm. Meat production is an important part of what contributes to climate change. These are some of the proposals I hope we can talk more about. I look forward to further climate discussions.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-627	Madam President, I would like My daughter just learned to walk. Her legs are full of bruises. Big brother is full of scratches after running around in the fantastic nature. As a parent, it is a great joy to see these little lives grow up and develop, but it is not without me getting a lump in my stomach and crying in my throat when I think of the world we are leaving behind to them. Climate change threatens the survival of our children and grandchildren. Already today, refugee camps are being filled with climate refugees fleeing wars and conflicts that have arisen in the wake of drought, pollution and lack of natural resources. An area that has been talked about far too little is the part of meat and livestock production in the climate. The Green Party has received a lot of criticism and retaliation when we have challenged the motorists' right to emit carbon dioxide, but perhaps the beef is still the most sensitive issue. However, with 15% of the climate impact, it must be an issue we address. Madam President, I would like I have proposed in this House a general meat tax in the past. My party Environmental Party went to elections on an antibiotic tax on meat. One reason is the climate. Another reason is that antibiotic resistance is also one of our major challenges in the future. If we and our children are to be able to run around barefoot and get our abrasions, which may become infected at some point, we need the antibiotics. Today, more antibiotics are used in healthy animals than we use in sick people. Meat production must shoulder its responsibilities. Swedish meat production shows that antibiotics can both be more restrictive and take more account of animal welfare. But we must ensure that total consumption decreases. By raising the price of meat, and especially of meat produced using the worst practices, we can help achieve these goals and solve several of the greatest challenges of the future. We have a responsibility. There are many who have talked about the importance of going ahead. Some insist on talking about the importance of pressing those who don't want to do anything at all, writing information brochures and giving fine speeches. We're running out of time. We have ten years if we are to achieve the 1.5-degree objective of the Paris Agreement. It requires action here and now from us.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-636	Madam President, I would like I should like to talk about the question that has made me stand here today, namely the forest. As obvious as it may seem, it is still a fuzzy concept with more than 700 definitions. A broad definition used by the EU is that it is an area larger than 5 000 square metres, including trees higher than five metres and covering at least 10% of the area. Even the clefts that temporarily stand without trees are included in this definition of forest. For me as a conservation biologist, forest is something completely different. It is an ecosystem made up of different species of trees of different ages and is an important habitat for a variety of animals, plants, mosses and lichens. Over the past 60 years, 61 percent of Sweden's forests have been felled. We have a very uneven age distribution where about 90 percent of the forest in Sweden is younger than 120 years. When it comes to the forest ecosystem, 120 years is a very young age, and there very few red-listed species can survive. Of the forest that is not cut or strongly human, we probably have only 10 percent or less left. The public is encouraged not to break living twigs for the sake of the living trees, to keep their dog on a leash for the sake of bird life and not to pick protected flowers for the sake of the survival of the flowers. But in exactly the same area the forest machines are free to go. If we ask the Swedish people, 80 percent think that forests with high natural values should be protected from felling. I am an environmental party there because I believe that everything that exists has a raison d'être. Since we as a nation have signed the Nagoya Agreement, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and have adopted 16 national environmental objectives and the 17 global goals, our goal is, in conclusion, to counteract the violation of nature and to stay within the planet's borders. To achieve this, we need to accelerate state protection in order to protect at least 20% of productive forest land mainly by rapidly protecting state-owned forests with high natural values. The biologically important forests of Ore Forests must be protected in their entirety, just like many other identified areas of value. We must convert forestry on a large scale into bare-cut forestry and devise economic incentives that make it profitable for foresters to have high biological values in their forests as a thank you for providing eco-system services to the rest of society. Protectable species must have legal protection and old forests and continuity forests must be protected from felling. I believe that we must stop looking at nature as an accessible raw material that is only there to serve our short-term economic interests. Those who contribute by working the forest sustainably will be rewarded for it while those who devastate the last rubble of old forest in Sweden will pay for it. It is time for us to listen to the will of the people, but also to those animals and plants that cannot make their voice heard in Swedish democracy. It is time we changed to ecologically sustainable forestry.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-645	Madam President, I would like I must strongly oppose the developments expressed by Rebecka Le Moine in this House. I firmly believe, and it is also the Swedish authorities, that the development of the Swedish forest is positive. We have had a greatly increased and developed environmental impact since the forestry law we have launched today in 1994. We see that the proportion of older forests is increasing, that the proportion of leaves is increasing and that more hard dead wood is left behind. We're going in the right direction. Unfortunately, the Green Party and the current government have seriously violated ownership and use rights, which seriously threatens the incentive structure that the honourable Member spoke about in his speech. Forest owners must feel confident that they have the right to own and use their forests if we are to achieve our high environmental goals. Why do you want to continue to restrict and jeopardise ownership and use rights and thus our ability to achieve environmental objectives?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-649	Madam President, I would like If you ask the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and read their report on the environmental assessment, you can see that we do not reach the goals related to living forests. The development is also not very positive. According to many experts, Swedish forestry is not considered sustainable. It is true that we plant new forests for what we take down. But then we do not take the forest into account as an ecosystem. It is important that we have a discussion and a political debate on how we can achieve a forestry that really benefits the people who have forests with high biological values. Today, freedom prevails under responsibility. This is not a responsible way to deal with the loss of species diversity in Sweden.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-652	Madam President, I would like The policy that makes Sweden's 330 000 forest owners feel uncertain about whether they are allowed to continue to manage and manage their forests endangers our long-term opportunities to reach our high environmental and climate ambitions. The incentive structure must be based on the fact that, as a landowner, you feel that you can keep the land that you take responsibility for and that you are not punished by expropriating the land without compensation from the state, as happens during the term of office. We need to review the Species Protection Regulation and the Key Biotop Inventory.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-654	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why I want to work for the legal protection of protected species and the protection of old forests and continuity forests from felling. It is not reasonable to place the responsibility on the owners to assess what is safe or not in an ecological landscape. Here the state must help and contribute, for example, to key biotop inventory.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-655	Madam President, I would like We must try to keep a little life alive in the environmental and climate debate even this evening. I would like to start by saying that I am proud that the voters in Östergötland have chosen to place two young environmentalists in this House. I'm going to take advantage of the fact that they've been so wise by asking for a line and asking a question. According to the FAO, sustainable forestry is defined as the management and exploitation of forests in a way that preserves biodiversity. But it is also about production, the ability of forests to innovate, its vitality and its ability to assist now and in the future with important ecological, economic and social functions at local, national and global levels. I have noticed during the election campaign that when you look at presentations by Rebecka Le Moine you see that one of the things that has been driving her into this hall is that it should pay no more to cut down her forest than to preserve it. Therefore, my question is straight and simple: What do you want to do to make it worth me as a forester to leave the forest behind?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-660	Madam President, I would like That is something that we must continue to debate and where we must find incentives. I usually get into the situation that it would mean being a landowner when there is evidence that says: These species are worthy of protection. Can you imagine zeroing your bank account? That is not something many would voluntarily do. We have also been able to show that it is not economically viable simply to set aside these forests as protection in some kind of goodwill, but to make it profitable for real.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-662	Madam President, I would like It does not happen that you are faced with the choice between destroying a species and zeroing your bank account. The freedom under responsibility that we have as forest owners in Sweden is highly regulated and balanced. We have a fairly strong control of the forest we have when it comes to whether there are natural values. They're not taken down anyway. This is a broken issue somewhere. If you do not think that we should have the model of freedom under the responsibility of a balance between production and preservation, you must also come up with a model where people are not put on the ground or forced to wind up their business because someone says they are not allowed to use their land.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-664	Madam President, I would like We already know today, following various follow-ups, that even known key biotopes are being harvested. So yes, it happens. We also have a system where the state goes in and pays the landowner 1 25% of the value for the land to be formally protected as a nature reserve or with other formal protection. We have FSC, which is a market certification that makes the consumer pay more in the belief that it will contribute to sustainable forestry. So there are different ways, but I think we can go much further.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-666	Madam President, I would like Last year, Sweden and Fiji hosted a major UN conference in New York – the launch of the UN's work on marine conservation. The efforts on the planet's blue lungs need to be pursued at national, European and international level. The oceans are home to a vast variety of species on our planet. They feel endless, but the truth is different. More than half of the sea's fish and vertebrates – perhaps as much as 90% – have already been fished up by us humans. We continually replenish with both plastic litter and other waste in the oceans. In recent years we have come to the realization of the ocean's buffering capacity to absorb carbon dioxide. But this carbon dioxide makes the oceans acidier and warmer, and the ocean currents change. Coral reefs are dying at an accelerated rate. We simply have to reverse the trend. Climate change is already visible in the Baltic ecosystem. According to a new report by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, cod and cooper seals may disappear completely. Saltwater species will be forced to wander south in the Baltic Sea, and species dependent on cold water will wander north and down into deeper waters. But as usual, there are things we can do and efforts we can put in that lead away from the unsustainable – if we want to. I would like to highlight today something that may seem to be a small issue but which is nevertheless something that we could act for quite quickly. Current research shows that eel grass meadows and seaweed forests have important roles in the climate work. They are very efficient carbon sinkers, and they are buffering towards global warming. Eel grass meadows are species-rich habitats on shallow soft bottoms that are located both along Sweden's east coast and west coast. They are often called the nursery of the sea because they provide shelter and food for, among other things, small cod and whiting. They create clearer water by stabilising the seabed and slowing down the water movement. And as I said, they counteract both eutrophication and climate change because they bind down nutrients and carbon in the sediment. The eel grass, however, declines rapidly and greatly. In Bohuslän, the spread of eel grass has decreased by over 60 per cent since the 80s. So it is a loss of about 12 500 hectares. Eel grass needs a lot of light to grow, and the historical losses are mainly linked to eutrophication and overfishing. Today, threats are also increasing from the number of constructions in shallow bays along the coast. This is particularly true of docks and marinas. Large areas of eel grass are shaded by these docks and marinas. So eel meadows must be given stronger protection. Nature's ability to produce what we call today's goods and services – i.e. marine food and ecosystem services – must prevail over our withdrawals and intrusions, as many have said here today in other ways. For too long we have acted as if the resources in the seas were endless – like a horn of plenty that someone is replenishing all the time. That is not the case. It is physics, chemistry and biology that govern what happens in ecosystems. With the Green Party in the government, we have increased efforts for climate, the environment and the sea not only in the environmental budget but also in this year's aid budget. And more is needed. We in the Green Party have been a voice for life in the seas for many years. We will continue to push locally, nationally and internationally to ensure that life in the seas is not silenced.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-674	Madam President, I would like This will be today's last speech, and I am pleased that so many people have wanted to take part in the environmental, climate and energy debate. We need to talk about these issues in all committees, I would say. That is why I wanted to register for this debate. As a spokesperson for the Green Party, I usually get to stand in this Chamber and talk about housing shortages, tenure forms, regulatory simplifications, regulatory simplifications and simplifications. That is why I thought: now I want to talk about the most important issue. I would also like to talk in my committee about how and by what we build our houses. That is one of the most important things that we need to change in the debate on housing policy. The greatest challenge of our time is climate change. We have heard many people describe this earlier in the debate, and I agree with their description. Several of you have made it tie in my stomach during your speeches. What is the future for our children? What exactly are we subjecting future generations to? We are currently seeing, and we have seen in the past summer, the consequences and consequences of our behaviour in recent decades. Makes me a little pissed off. As Obama said: We are the first generation to be able to see the consequences of climate change, but we are also the first and last generation to be able to do something about climate change. There are several reasons, and what I was going to highlight here today is something that no one has previously highlighted in the debate: the climate impact of the construction sector. The construction sector accounts for one fifth of Sweden's negative climate emissions. That's as much as the passenger car fleet stands for in a year. And yet we are not talking about the climate impact of the construction sector! We live in a time when it's being built like it hasn't been done in a very long time. And it will; we need to build more homes, preschools, schools, offices, bath houses and God knows what is being built around our municipalities. At the same time, however, we must also make sure that the construction sector is changed. When I studied as a construction engineer, the biggest challenge was how much energy was used to heat the house during the operating phase – when we live there. Today we can build passive houses and even plus houses that provide more energy than they draw. I hope that those studying construction today do not need to learn as much about these pieces, because today we need to discuss the climate impact of building materials. There are studies that show that in a village's life cycle as much as 80 percent of the climate impact comes from building materials. We build good houses energy-wise, but the materials we use to build our houses have a huge impact on the climate. It is also proven that what affects the climate is, above all, cement in concrete and, to a large extent, steel that we use for reinforcement. Then you can think: Wow, what a big challenge. At the same time, we have a huge housing shortage, and we have to build many homes. But the solution is there, Madam President. The solution is spelled wood and wood building. It has been mentioned here before about the forest, and I am well aware of the conflicts we are facing about what we are going to use the forest for. But the Green Party has given priority. What we're going to use the forest for in the first place is to build houses, because in houses we can store the carbon dioxide– we don't burn it. It is extremely important that we actually reduce the climate impact of the construction sector. Madam President, I would like Time passes quickly, and four minutes of speaking time, as Members, we are not used to sticking to. I would like to conclude by saying that in order to meet the climate challenge that we are facing, the construction sector must reduce its emissions.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-684	Madam President, I would like I'll take tonight's last opportunity to come up here and talk. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for an excellent speech which only improved at the end of a very important subject. That's really where this line moves. I am personally just elected as a delegate to the Nordic Council. There, the Green Party, the Center Party and the other parties in the middle group hook arm when it comes to trying to push forward construction policy in the Nordic context, partly to reduce emissions, and partly to do so by building precisely in wood. Here we could reduce emissions to about half at the time of construction and also use a renewable resource. When does the honourable Member think that we will also see inside this Chamber that the Green Party is hooking arms with the rest of us and pushing for a national wooden building strategy?
i-8e8704fce62d2624-687	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has chosen that half of everything that is built should be built in wood in 2025. It's not just about houses, it's about offices and everything else that we build. So I think the Green Party is willing to push ahead. When it comes to a national wood building strategy, I talked to those who work with wood construction issues, without mentioning any company, and wood building strategies were something we did 10–20 years ago. We need other ways to achieve this, and a national goal of how much to build in wood I think is the right way forward.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-688	Madam President, I would like My party has gone to elections to promote wood construction but also to try to make political proposals for negative emissions. Although we hope that much more in this country will be built in wood in the future – this hall is fantastically beautiful to look at, and I hope it will look like this in more places but perhaps not as cold – we will not get rid of other emissions. I think we have a great deal to do in terms of being able to reduce, for example, the emissions of the cement industry. Here we can agree that we need to press for more wood construction in place and above all that this will be easier to implement – strategies or not.
i-8e8704fce62d2624-689	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for taking the line! I am absolutely convinced that both your party and my party and you and I will be able to move forward on these issues. We need to do that, and we need to get the other parties in this House with us so that they understand how extremely important this is to reduce the climate impact of the construction sector. I look forward to the continued work and hope that we will be able to work together well. Welcome to the Riksdag!
