i-81cb35a2763b765a-5	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to come up with more proposals to achieve greater social benefits, to provide more public transport for the money, and how I believe that we can realistically approach the doubling target in public transport and what political tools are needed. I would like to start with the Government's view that public transport can contribute to solutions to several environmental and climate challenges, especially in cities. Sweden has, among other things, the ambition to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Good urban planning increases the opportunities for transport-efficient cities, which can at the same time make it easier for travellers to choose a high-capacity public transport, walking and cycling instead of a passenger car. Emma Wallrup refers to a report from Swedish Public Transport that highlights a number of proposals to reduce the costs for regional public transport authorities while providing more public benefit. Since regional public transport is a responsibility for municipalities and county councils in each county, and since local infrastructure and schools, for example, are a municipal responsibility, several of the proposals concern these actors at local and regional level. The State is also able to promote public transport, and the Government has taken several initiatives in this area. Urban environment agreements provide municipalities with co-financing for investments in public transport infrastructure. Society is thus given the opportunity to get more public transport for the money. Furthermore, the Government's electricity bus premium allows regional public transport authorities and municipalities to apply for a premium for the purchase of electrically powered buses. The government also contributes to the functioning of public transport by investing in transport infrastructure, such as railways and bus lanes, and there are additional opportunities for municipalities to seek co-financing for certain public transport measures through the regulation on state co-financing for certain regional public transport facilities and more. In addition, within the Government's cooperation programme Next Generation Travel and Transport, an investment is being made in a national road map for combined mobility to facilitate services that offer the opportunity to travel by car, bicycle, public transport or by other means of transport through a single subscription. As early as spring 2018, such services may be available. In conclusion, the Government has taken a number of initiatives to promote public transport for greater social benefit, while a major responsibility for the development of public transport lies with other actors, including at local and regional level.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-12	Mr President, I would like to I wanted to ask the Minister this question because it is so incredibly important. We have a major climate problem. It is quite nasty to see coral reefs in all the world's oceans dying out because the oceans have become acidier with an increased carbon dioxide content. These are nasty scenarios. We see strong weather events that will affect not least the infrastructure of the world's countries, which will make society very vulnerable if we do not act very forcefully and look at how we can both capture carbon dioxide and reduce emissions. We're in an emergency. There's nothing else you can say. That is why public transport is so vitally important. There are problems with getting enough biofuels, problems with minerals for electric cars and so on. Public transport is probably the most important piece of the puzzle, I would say, to get the whole puzzle together. The costs in public transport have increased from SEK 28.4 billion in 2007 to SEK 45.6 billion in 2016. The report produced by Swedish Public Transport points out that, among other things, it is more expensive vehicles that have cost more, but also the costs of procurement, contracts, fuel and wages have increased. We need to look at how we can make the money enough for more public transport and how we can have a strong steering effect on increased travel. I myself have looked very much at Freiburg, who has worked with community planning and to invest in public transport and there lower the price. I usually say that there are three legs: increased accessibility for public transport, reduced accessibility for cars in the city and reduced prices for public transport. In Freiburg a monthly card costs 500 SEK for travel throughout the region, so it is very beneficial, and then also included tram. In Freiburg, the social subsidy has been reduced by this effort. Even though they have lowered the price, they get more money through the strong leverage effect for increased travel on public transport. I have also spoken to researchers who support this model and say that this is exactly how to work. I think that we, from the state side, could promote such a development. We could draw up a plan, partly for how to lower the price for the traveller and partly for how to contribute to it to the municipalities in different ways. We in the Left Party have moved on to this. It could also offer or impose requirements on municipalities and regions to have better coordination platforms and create a structure where the community planners in the municipality and the regional public transport authority work together to get a city planning that benefits public transport, and then also discuss the price picture. Under neoliberalism, since taxes have been reduced, it has been taboo in Sweden to talk about prices in public transport. People almost yell at you when you raise your voice in a forum and just mention that public transport tariffs must also be part of the picture. As with any other consumption, there is a link between price and demand. We have not been able to discuss this, much because, I believe, there has been so much fear that tax revenue would not be enough. But now we're in a different position. We are steering the boat and moving towards an increased focus on social benefits and not just tax cuts, so I think this is a new time to discuss this.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for your commitment! I very much share it, and I also share the view that it was a sad period when tax cuts were put before important social investments. I notice clearly in the role of Minister for Infrastructure that there are incredible holes, not only physical holes on roads around the country but also in maintenance plans and investments. That is why we are spending EUR 100 billion more on the next national plan on infrastructure, because that is what is needed. Much of the investment will be in rail transport, not least. In order for us to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country, we need to invest in what is climate-smart. We have perhaps, during our reign, done more than any government has done in the past to promote precisely the development of public transport, and throughout the country. I realise that much of the discussion is about what we can do in our big cities when it comes to the urban environment agreements, electrification of buses and call-driven traffic. There are a lot of projects in progress where we are involved in funding and organising co-financing. I myself originally come from Kosta with 800 inhabitants. I have since grown up in Växjö. In the countryside I come from, it is just as important that we find alternatives. Therefore, the investment in rural public transport is also very good, because you will find more tools that will allow you to find other alternatives. I think both the government and Emma Wallrup are right in time. As far as consumption patterns and travel habits are concerned, we can of course see that the younger generation is in favour of increased mobility; we want to move more. But you are not so inclined to own your own car and have it outside your own house, but you will be happy to find other means of transport. This means that interest in car pools and call-driven traffic is increasing dramatically. If we then switch on, which I know the interpellation is not entirely about, but I cannot help but mention, the possibility of having a digitalised and self-driving vehicle fleet that can promote good transport and smart and efficient solutions in city centres, we face unprecedented opportunities. If it's going to work, it's going to take a co-planning of all the actors. I have made it clear that the Finnish Transport Administration will not only look at roads and railways and the physical infrastructure, but will also look at the development of residential areas and the whole urban planning. That is why the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan for the first time has included housing, something that should really be self-evident. If we are to build communities where we will live and live and be able to get to work and to friends and acquaintances, the planning needs to have a slightly larger horizon than the individual road project. Then we must see how we are building the city of the future where public transport, environmental zones and other solutions will be a very natural part. I feel that this is a policy area where the government takes more initiatives than we have ever done and where there is great interest. Let us work together to ensure that the pendulum does not strike back, but that the environmental commitment that exists both in cities and in rural areas renders increased pressure on more policy efforts on public transport and increased resources to make smart investments. I can see that the automotive industry is already well ahead. They want to be part of this development and offer smart alternatives for procurement. Furthermore, the electric bus premium that we have proposed and are now pushing through a good example of something that can have a great effect in the city centres in the future.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-31	Mr President, I would like to I share much of the Minister's view on this. But I wonder why the price is not mentioned. We have a situation where public transport has become very expensive. Many drivers say that they choose the car because it is cheaper. Not least, it concerns many men who want to own their car and continue to have a car. When public transport is expanded, it is adapted to middle class businessmen. Fast core lines have been built with fairly right prices. It is a gender power regime in traffic planning that we need to get away from. We have benefited traffic that businessmen, in particular, travel with. It's about flights, and now it's high-speed. Here, too, there is a risk of high prices. All models indicate that this group will benefit, because they will receive higher wages. This isn't okay. We must plan society for everyone, and the price picture is very important for low-income people, whom the Social Democrats should protect, for women and for pensioners, but also for those who want to opt out of the car for wallet reasons. That is why it is sad if the Minister does not want to discuss the price. I hope that the Minister will follow social developments and dare to do so in the future. It may be difficult to take a new position, but we need to take this discussion. The fact is that we are facing a coming climate crisis that is very unpleasant. We need to take the strong measures that are needed, and here the price of public transport can be important in order to really achieve the doubling target. I know that many public transport committees, not least in Uppsala, have almost released the belief that it is possible to reach the doubling target. But it's possible. If you use all the three legs I mentioned earlier, including accessibility and price, you have every opportunity to reach the doubling target and possibly also get a good budget if you work properly. This is exciting. It is not certain that it will have the same effect in the regions, but we should be able to make a little more effort and move in this direction. Many of the proposals put forward in the report go in this direction. Even the study on a fossil-free vehicle fleet, recently set up by the government to see how to continue working and develop more measures for different authorities, suggests that the urban environment agreements can work more effectively in terms of having compensations to reduce motorism in the cities. This thinking could be used here to have a lever effect.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-39	Mr President, I would like to I think I answered the question. We are making great efforts to strengthen public transport. We do so by increasing, perhaps more than any government, cofinancing and resources for public transport. This applies whether we are talking about public transport in rural areas or through the urban environment agreements. Not to mention the fact that we are introducing free public transport during the summer holidays for schoolchildren, on the issue of prices. So, of course, we are also discussing the issue of prices. At the same time, one must be aware that it is not the government that determines SL's tariffs. It is not the government that has responsibility for Skånetrafiken or others, but it is regional authorities. This means that, as a minister of state, I should be very careful to point the finger at those politicians in regions and municipalities who are responsible for public transport. They shall take that responsibility and weigh it against other important matters that they have within the framework of the responsibilities of the region. What the state does is to facilitate their everyday life through important investments, through the urban environment agreements, through rural investment and by also widely promoting through the research programmes we have promoted a development where we find smarter models with call-driven traffic and electrified driveline. As far as fast lines are concerned and which groups are rewarded, I fully share the point of departure that we must continue to examine so that, on the one hand, we see with gender-disaggregated statistics and, on the other hand, with the examination of travel patterns which benefit from the investments. My firm opinion is that public transport investments have a clear gender profile. It is more women who use public transport and, from that point of view, it is good for equality, but we need to find a better basis to know this. I am not going to review the debate in the Stockholm area on skip stop. But it is clear that the priority chosen in large traffic-tight regions affects what efforts are being made. But it's not up to the government to decide. We can stimulate, and we do, we can reward and influence the price picture and we can ensure that the right investments are made. We strengthen public transport in a good way – more than perhaps any other government has done. We are doing this in happy and good cooperation with the Left Party, so I would therefore indirectly like to thank Emma Wallrup for her good assistance in this work.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-46	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I am also pleased that we can work together on this in the budget and in other contexts. That's good. It is also good that the focus is increasingly on rail and public transport, which the Left Party welcomes. We want constructive dialogue and work effectively. We always have a focus on everyone being in society and public transport should not be too expensive so that everyone can travel. Before I came to Parliament, I worked in care for the elderly. I worked with single women who worked hard and were ambitious. They were hit hard when a regional card was introduced in Uppsala, because the price of the monthly card was gladly raised by 50 percent. It was believed that more people in the county would travel. The women I worked were hit hard by this, and some took their driver's license while others toiled with the bike even in wintertime. This is not okay in a social development where we should protect all groups and especially those who take care of our elderly and loved ones. I think we should set the bar higher when we talk about prices and not continue the neo-liberal era with the construction of stylish travel centres where no one can sit and it is easiest to consume, with high prices in public transport, with fast core lines so that pensioners can go far and so on. We need to change the focus of society. Another problem is that in many areas you plan narrow residential areas where public transport does not fit because we have city planners who have the task of planning neatly and crowded rather than functionally. It is a problem from the neoliberal era that we have to deal with.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-52	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to review city planners, local decision-makers or those who design smart traffic solutions. I assume that they do this based on the very best visions and thoughts about how more people can travel by public transport. Speaking of the price picture, I realise that there will always be a balance between the level of subsidy for traffic and the amount of money for large investments, not least for those who have to decide on regional traffic. We should be aware that public transport is subsidised. We all contribute together, because ticket revenues do not cover costs. Both me and Emma Wallrup are among those who think that public transport should not have old diesel buses but electrified vehicles and smart solutions, but this requires that you have the resources to make these investments in the future. I believe that investment levels will remain high, whether we are talking about rail public transport or other types of vehicles. We need to find smart financing models for this, and it is clear that it can go beyond the price. Every citizen of this country will have to make a sacrifice when we move from a society that has completely ignored what CO2 emissions we have into a society where we all have to take responsibility. This will affect whether we go on a flight– speaking of the airline tax – train or car, or for that matter the collective solutions we have. We must realise that travelling will cost something more if we are to make it climate-smart. I am completely optimistic about the possibilities, because the Swedish people want to join. Let us ensure that we give regional politicians the tools to make the right decisions. Unless otherwise, voters may adjust this in the next election campaign.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-57	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me how I assess the potential for achieving the goal of fossil freedom by 2030 and what concrete instruments I believe we need to strengthen or which new instruments I assess need to be put in place to enable achievement of goals. Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and the national environmental quality targets will be met. At the Government's proposal, the Riksdag has decided that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport – outside domestic aviation – will decrease by at least 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. To achieve this goal, action is needed on several fronts where both community planning and the development of efficient transport systems, including efficient vehicles, fossil-free fuels and measures addressing transport demand, can contribute. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has made a first forecast of the possibilities for achieving goals. The analysis shows that we are on the right track but that additional instruments are needed. In order to achieve the objectives, it is also necessary, among other things, to continue the rapid technological development of vehicles and fuels that allow the substitution of fossil-powered transport. At the same time, the transition to 2030 will largely take place with today's vehicle fleet. Access to biofuels for the existing fleet is therefore crucial to achieving the sector target. The government has already taken a wide range of measures during its term of office to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. A bonus – malus system that stimulates the purchase of relatively lower-emission vehicles, a reduction obligation for gradually increasing the incorporation of biofuels in petrol and diesel, and investment support for climate change. Among other things, the Government has allocated specific funds to the Energy Agency's coordination of the transition of the transport sector to fossil freedom. Within the framework of this mission, the agency, assisted by the Swedish Transport Agency, the Finnish Transport Agency, Trafikanalys, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and Boverket, has developed a strategic plan for the transformation, which is an important basis for the government's continued consideration in the area. In addition, the Government has allocated resources to introduce environmental compensation for rail freight transport. Furthermore, Trafikverket has the Government's mission to investigate the conditions for electric roads to be able to be part of the Swedish transport system in the long term. Sweden is driving several negotiations at EU level, including emission requirements for vehicles and the revision of the Eurovignette Directive, which is important for our ability to achieve climate targets in a cost-effective way. In spring 2018, the Government will present a climate strategy, where the transition to a fossil-free transport sector is an important part. During the spring, the Government will also decide on a new national plan for the transport system for the years 2018–2029 as well as a strategy for efficient, sustainable and capable freight transport. Already today, decided instruments contribute to reduced fossil dependence, and the government is working on a broad front through a number of initiatives to achieve the transport sector's climate targets. The Government is closely following developments and is taking a continuous stand on the need for further efforts.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-66	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I am positive because it is now time to come up with several good plans and a more comprehensive approach. I very much welcome this. I would like to emphasise the importance of what the Environmental Protection Agency has said and, like others – many researchers, IPCC, the FFF investigation and others – have pointed out, namely that it is important to have goal management and look at community planning, not just technology. It is important to keep putting this in the debate because it is easy to stare blindly at technology and believe it will lead all the way, but we need a low-transport society as well. This is pointed out in the strategic plan for the transition of the transport sector to fossil freedom, which the government has commissioned the Energy Agency and others to produce, as I mentioned in my previous speech. They are just talking about having a low-carbon economy. The EU is pushing the other way, with region enlargement. It is a pure order from giant companies, which are easier to establish themselves in sparsely populated areas across Europe if they are large regions. But one must always be aware of what is the popular perspective and what benefits the largest capital owner. After all, commuting does not make people feel good. They get less time for their family, leisure time and so on. So it is important to have clear glasses and see who you follow. Then regional enlargement can be a good thing if you want to have better knowledge in health care and so on. You have to look at this nuancedly. You should know what you are doing, and you should know that this planning runs counter to the low-transport society. I think it is important to keep looking at the whole of politics so that you build up and do not go in two different directions at the same time. Another thing that is raised in the strategic plan and which I think is important to debate is that you need to work with both carrot and whip. After the summer we have got even worse climate reports: There are giant holes in the tundra, houses are sinking, higher methane levels in the atmosphere were reported after the summer – you don't know if it comes from the oceans or tundra – and so on. The situation is tightening up all the time. I am an environmental activist and have worked for environmental organizations before Parliament and so on, but in the times we live in now and in the run-up to the elections I honestly believe that it is the carrots that apply more than the whips. We have to make the voters – everyone – feel: we're going to change, we're in on it, we're opening the door – yes, reset, save us! I think it's smarter with carrots right now. We need some whips, but above all carrots. We need more public transport and rail. We have night trains, for example. In the negotiations we discussed saving the night trains to Jämtland, which goes every day, to give a carrot to Norrland when the airline tax is introduced. It should be an opportunity to commute by train. Going by night train up to Östersund has given the opportunity for the whole of Norrland to commute by train, you can hear when talking to northerners who live far up. Then they can sleep that way and then get up with other means of transport, and that is a very good alternative to aviation. These glasses I think we need to be really cool with now and therefore have a ground perspective: how do we make it easier for the citizen when we reposition?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-75	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup mentioned the night train to Östersund. Of course I'm very happy that we could present that solution. It was not commercially viable, but we went in with social means to facilitate conditions. It's important to Jämtland. We have to remember that. It is not just about Stockholmers' ability to get up to ski resorts, it is about the whole of Jämtland and the region's development. It is therefore important that we now hopefully create better conditions for traffic to be able to carry themselves in that region in the future. The ambition is that the whole of Sweden should be able to live. It is also the background to the major investment that we are making in relocation and relocation and for government services to exist throughout the country. That is why I am a little worried about this. I take Emma Wallrup as saying that the uncertainty about regional enlargement is due to the fact that it leads to increased travel, but the alternative is urbanisation. I don't really like that idea. I like the idea of being able to work and live at home in Småland. We will be able to move jobs there, but I will also be able to have a larger region so that I can get down to Malmö or Copenhagen with working and fast trains. We must therefore be careful that we do not use instruments that contribute to a further sharp increase in urbanisation, because the whole country must have good conditions. I think most people in Sweden understand this. I can see that there is a strong commitment. Train rides have increased dramatically. Large international groups but also small companies are now using very clear instruments in their procurement to promote fossil-free travel. We will make it easier by taking the right instruments from the government, too, so that we can promote this change. The automotive industry, which ten or fifteen years ago could sometimes sit with its heels on the slopes and be a little hesitant, is now – at least in Sweden – freezing and saying: That's good. Can't it go a little faster? I myself have looked at the electric roads in Sandviken and been able to see how a major international project on electric heavy vehicles chose between investing in California or Sandviken. And they chose Sandviken. Scania, Siemens and others are now charging together with Ernst's Express, where their trucks are able to handle heavy transport with electric powertrain completely fossil-free. I often talk about this when I am out in the country and talk about the permanent world exhibition. If we are to achieve the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country, we must move from a situation where we only have projects and demo facilities to actually implement new technology to show that it is possible, including because it is good and important here. It is the moral imperative that we do what we can today to make sure that we leave a better world behind to our children and grandchildren. But of course there is also a strong trade policy and commercial perspective when Swedish companies are world leaders, when industry, academia and politics together are actually able to make smart joint procurements and find good transport solutions that are fossil-free by heavy vehicles entering a digitised port to make more use of shipping because it is climate-smart. It is clear that the outside world will then come even more to Sweden, not least Asian countries. We see that environmental technology exports and exports in general are now increasing to Asia, precisely because we have dared to use instruments. Here we differ from previous bourgeois governments who said that the market is allowed to do this. This also meant that we in Sweden did not become the world leader. Sweden is a small export-dependent industrial country, and we live on the fact that we dare to be at the forefront and have well-functioning collaboration. With clear climate targets, as we have, we will be able to achieve the goals of having a fossil-free vehicle fleet. I am absolutely convinced that there is broad support both in the Swedish population and in the Swedish business community for such a change.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-86	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for that. I fully agree that it is very positive that we are working with new technology, electric roads and so on. That's very good. We shall continue to do so and strengthen this work. It is also important not to forget the railways and public transport, which are nevertheless the most transport efficient and energy efficient in both areas. As long as you focus on it too, so to speak and do not let the self-driving car or electrified roads take over the debate. You're supposed to do both things at the same time. I would like to look at what is also addressed in the investigation commissioned by the Government in connection with the FFF investigation, namely the road wear tax and the importance of developing geographical and temporal differentiation in the level of fees. A concept has come together from Ostcoastports, namely regionally based kilometre tax. Maybe it's coming from elsewhere, too. But it is now included in the text of the budget that we have negotiated. This is being debated rather little. But it is incredibly beneficial to achieve all the goals that we want to achieve. In addition, you do not have to make the deductions that the Left Party has discussed for a long time for the forest industry and so on because we do not want to remove jobs in Norrland and so on. It's about creating small or large zones-- I'm thinking quite large zones-- where it doesn't cost much. But it costs more if you change the zone. This would mean that the local haulage industry, the Swedish haulage industry and the forest industry would not be affected, but it would favour the transfer to shipping and rail for the long distances. This is so incredibly smart. I think it is Switzerland or some other slightly smaller country in Europe that already has this. I find it very interesting. But there has been so little discussion. It is almost only I who have highlighted it in the debate in various rounds in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and so on. It feels so boring because it is such a solution that everyone should like. In fact, I have also heard bourgeois Members say on various occasions that there should be no problem when presenting this model. Then I don't know if they'll stick to it when it comes down to it. However, these views have come to light. If we are to reach a fossil-free vehicle fleet, it is very important to get away from the large amount of trucks on our roads. It is also important to get away from cabotage and the dangerous combinations that drive onytra, with bad trucks and so on. This is a model that I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts about and if you look at it more.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-92	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that we are looking at this very much. I'm going to start where Emma Wallrup left off, namely with the truck traffic we have. We have already made several efforts to ensure that it is done on fair terms, namely that there are tough controls, that we have cabotage controls, that we have complaints – we intend to extend this possibility – and that we have penalties. This is important not only for those truck drivers who get hurt or are exploited by foreign hauliers. It is also important for Swedish haulage industry that it should be orderly and that it should be fair competitive conditions. I am now taking a number of initiatives in the future to move forward precisely to ensure that we have good conditions of competition. In this context, it can be noted that the requirement for winter tyres is also an important part of ensuring that the vehicles on our roads are safely driven. This, together with alco-bommers, we can ensure that the vehicles entering Sweden, such as heavy transport, are not driven by drunk drivers. So a great deal is being done here. I think it is important that we continue to look at how we can cope with the shift from road to rail and to shipping. Sometimes I think that in the Swedish debate, without reviewing it too much, there have been very high hopes that we will be able to quickly switch a lot of goods from road to rail. It cannot be done simply for the simple reason that it is very full on our railways. The Swedish people want to travel more, and companies want to send more goods. So it's incredibly full. There has not been sufficient investment in rail systems in previous years. When I'm out talking about infrastructure, I always mention the underinvestments that have been in Sweden for a long time. Not long ago, we had a Minister for Finance – Anders Borg – who said on a number of occasions that it was unprofitable to invest in rail transport. The price for this is now a huge mountain of maintenance efforts in the rail system that we have today. But it is also a pressing need for new investment. That is why I am pleased that we can spend EUR 100 billion more in the national plan on investment, where a very large part will take place in not least the rail system. In this context, I am pleased that Emma Wallrup mentions ports. I had a historic meeting yesterday. The government invited Sweden's ports for the first time. It has not been done before. I think it was representatives of 54 ports in place. It was the directors of the ports but also regional politicians who are often on the boards. We had a very good discussion about the development that ports are facing. This is a positive development that is taking place. Now the flag is increasing, now the Swedish merchant fleet is being strengthened, not least thanks to tonnage taxation, which we changed. If we are to develop shipping even more and put more goods into shipping, the port infrastructure must also work well – clear digitalisation and clear paths. In the long run, I believe that buyers of freight services will not fully care whether it is the truck, train or shipping that performs these services. He or she wants to know if it is climate-smart and reliable. It's about mobility. Rather, it is that service that you buy. We must facilitate the transition and flexibility that will be needed in the freight management system in the future. Here is the key to switching Sweden to climate-smart transport. That is why I have the ambition, together with the national plan, where we clarify the investments, to also present a clear plan for the good strategy ahead, so that stakeholders know how we look at building paths and how we can combine BK4 and 74-tonne trucks with smart ports that are digitised. Then Sweden will be able to make the transition.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-98	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. There has been criticism of the alcoboms – that it takes time to get them in place. So we need to act now and get them in place. A lot of skiers I'm talking to are worried because they know people are driving onyktra. On the picnics where you live and rest out there is partying and so on, and then you drive further drunk. So there is a major problem here, and it is dangerous. It is also important to look at transhipment nodes. I spoke to the Transport Council of Industry at the Transport Forum, and it was pointed out that there are often no transhipment nodes where it is needed and therefore there is no choice for rail and maritime transport. Here, then, we would also need to see further initiatives to strategically look at this and strengthen these pieces – now that we talk a lot about intermodality and so on. I therefore hope that it will come up properly on the agenda. As far as 74 tonnes are concerned, in the field of HCT research, which was set up by the previous government, a research team was looking at how to avoid transhipment to road from rail when heading for 74 tonnes. They pointed out that it is important to use the few resources that are right, in order to strengthen roads and bridges that go towards transhipment towards rail and shipping. According to research, this can therefore be really controlled, and I also think that there is too little about this in the debate – that there is research on this within the state project that existed within HCT. I try to highlight it as often as possible so that no one will forget it, because it feels so important. It is about not getting a transfer, which we got the last time we increased the weight of trucks.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-103	Mr President, I would like to I think we share the objective and the view that there are more things to do. The Good Strategy and the National Plan are good tools for this. When we look at the implementation of BK4 and trucks weighing 74 tonnes or priorities in the national plan, we also need to have a policy perspective. We need to see how the person who buys goods transport thinks, and then it is about reliability and price – but also climate requirements to a greater extent. Yesterday I got very good examples of how large customers are setting quite tough climate demands on the ports in the future. This must be the starting point when we design a route and the right priorities. We cannot and must not end up in a situation where the investments made cannot be fully used as a result of being made partially and partially or not interacting with each other. This means that there are rather tough priorities that need to be made in the future as regards which strands are most important to strengthen the chains and, of course, where the heavy investments should be in order for the whole line to function. I noticed not least during the meeting with the ports yesterday that there is a very strong commitment, and that is because the interest in shipping is increasing – 90% of Sweden's exports go via shipping. The development we are seeing is that more people want to put more goods on shipping. However, we will then need to digitise and make clearer priorities and clear the whole chain in, and here responsibility is shared within the state and also between the owners of ports. That is why it is important to launch such a dialogue now. This is how we systematically work with Sweden to become that permanent world exhibition for environmentally smart technology and be able to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I feel confident that with the right policies we can actually achieve those goals.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-108	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me what steps I am taking to resume the construction of the Passage in Häggvik as soon as possible. Trafikverket is the authority responsible for ensuring that Bypass Stockholm is built with high quality and as efficient as possible. I would like to emphasise that it is the entrepreneur who has unilaterally chosen to pause the project. The Finnish Transport Agency does not share the entrepreneur's view of the work documents on which the construction is based. The Finnish Transport Agency is an independent authority, and it is not for the government or an individual minister to take action linked to a negotiation between an authority and its contractor. I assume and trust that the Swedish Transport Administration is working to ensure that the work can resume as soon as possible.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-111	Mr President, I would like to First of all, this is my first debate with Tomas Eneroth, and I would like to say that it is fun and good with committed ministers – all regardless of political colour. It's good for Sweden. This is an important issue at an important time. We have a very anti-Stockholm government: jobs are to be moved from Stockholm, and taxes are raised especially for people who live in Stockholm. The equalisation tax is increased in Stockholm, despite the need for our welfare. We have infrastructure projects that are repeatedly stopped or delayed, and from the government there are repeatedly attacks on the welfare model that characterizes Stockholm and Stockholm municipalities, with freedom of choice and empowerment for users. There is almost a queue among government ministers to come and complain about Stockholm, the Stockholms and the choices and life choices made in this region. Mr President, I would like to The latest problem for infrastructure and infrastructure development in the Stockholm region is the shutdown that once again characterises the Stockholm bypass. Bypass Stockholm is of central importance for the development of the entire region, the entire capital and thus the entire country. It is in practice a matter of unloading at Essingeleden, and in the long run it is of course a question of getting better opportunities to commute, move goods and goods and to conduct growth-promoting trade here in Stockholm. Last time the construction was stopped, it was the government itself that did it. It was done at a cost of SEK 4 million per day that the government chose to throw in the lake instead of making sure that they came to Stockholm and Stockholm's development for reasons of prestige, conflict or unknown reasons. It is a very anti-Stockholm policy. Now that we hear the Prime Minister say that he has full confidence in the authorities and does not intend to interfere in their work, it is remarkable in the light of the fact that the government itself has stopped the construction in the past because one cannot get along with each other but is fighting with each other instead of developing the country. Now that it is once again still in construction, the government chooses to take its full hand from this. However, it is the government that governs the country, and it is the government that is responsible for how the authorities are managed. The fact that we have an infrastructure minister who completely takes his hand from one of the biggest failures we currently have in the development of Swedish infrastructure is both remarkable and serious. Why does the Minister for Infrastructure not want to get involved in the matter so that the construction can continue and we can get the bypass that jobs and growth in Stockholm need? Mr President, I would like to This lack of commitment can be put into a wider context where the government wants to move jobs from Stockholm, unilaterally raise taxes in Stockholm, take more equalization tax from Stockholm and engage in the welfare model with freedom of choice and empowerment that prevails in Stockholm. In combination with this, ministers will repeatedly criticise the Stockholmers for the choices and life choices they make. It seems worrying for Sweden's development that we have a government that constantly wants to take political points by attacking the metropolitan area.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the initial praise, Niklas Wykman! I can sign off by saying that it is always fun to debate with Niklas. I particularly appreciate the fact that the honourable Member mentions the concept of "self-power" twice, because it was I who coined the concept in Sweden and wrote a book about it in the early 90s. That's where the consensus ends, isn't it? I don't think the government is anti-Stockholm. We represent major investments in the Stockholm area. In the area of traffic, this applies not least to Citybanan, which we now see the consequences of: we get improved punctuality and improved flow. Especially now that the stop trains have stopped, we see improved traffic opportunities. The major accident that may be in the Stockholm area – which this interpellation is not at all about – is well NKS. It is hardly the government's responsibility that moderate politicians in the Stockholm region privatise healthcare and create projects that will cost Stockholm's taxpayers billions and billions. This is, of course, extremely serious, and I believe that many people in Stockholm are very concerned about it. This question is about something quite different. It is about an ongoing work with the Passage, which is now taking place, which it did not become earlier. There is a long-term agreement on the bypass, which is important. However, as in many other infrastructure projects, the entrepreneur and the client may sometimes have different views. I find it a little worrying if Niklas Wykman, as a member of the Swedish Parliament, calls on the Government to enter into a local negotiation between an entrepreneur and an authority. Apart from the fact that this in itself would certainly lead me to immediately, and with good reason, being notified to the KU and accused of ministerial government, it would also open up a broad field of political lobbying, where ministers and members of parliament would start to care about disputes between entrepreneurs and authorities. Such a political development I believe that neither Niklas Wykman nor I want to see in the future. Basically, I would like to ask Niklas Wykman whether the honourable Member is serious about the government going into this conflict and taking a stand for the NCC or the Finnish Transport Administration. Is it the government's mission to enter into party conflicts and have an opinion? I think that the policy should be objective in relation to such conflicts and ensure that the actors carry out their tasks. To conclude, where Niklas Wykman put a great deal of his commitment, I would like to say that this is not a Stockholm anti-government. This is a government that protects the whole of Sweden, which includes the growth of the Stockholm region. The development in Stockholm is positive. Unemployment is falling dramatically – it did not during the time of the alliance government. Now the Stockholmers have jobs. The development is also taking place throughout the Stockholm area. Housing is being built, as was not done during the time of the alliance government. A lot of housing is being built in the Stockholm area, for the intended reason. There is a glaring housing shortage as a result of a failed policy as a priority tax reduction rather than investment. Now we are turning Sweden's development around. We invest, and we have large surpluses in government finances. This serves both the Stockholms and the rest of Sweden. Sweden must stick together. Then we cannot keep picking cheap political points trying to set Stockholm against the rest of the country. When I lead the Arlanda Council, where representatives from all the authorities and from many other interests look at Arlanda's development, I do so not just for the sake of the Stockholm region. I do this because Arlanda is the entire Swedish air hub and because it means strong support for the Swedish export industry, whether we are talking about LKAB, SSAB or Småland forest companies. That is why I believe that the task is to be national representatives. I hope and believe that most Members of the Parliament also think so.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-130	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Eneroth says the government is not hostile to Stockholm. Then it is possible to think about why the government wants to move jobs from Stockholm, why it specifically increases the taxes paid by many Stockholmers, why it increases the equalization tax for Stockholm county councils and municipalities and why it stops infrastructure projects and allows them to stand still at a cost of SEK 4 million per day. If you are not anti-Stockholm, why do you go for the whole welfare model that characterizes Stockholm and Stockholm municipalities, with freedom of choice and empowerment? Why, then, are there queues among government ministers to complain about Stockholm, the Stockholms, their choices and their life choices? If the government is not hostile to Stockholm, why can't Tomas Eneroth take the initiative to complete the Passage? This is a very large infrastructure project of SEK 30 billion that is now failing because government authorities and entrepreneurs cannot get along or talk to each other. Tomas Eneroth is trying to hide behind the fact that it would be ministerial rule, but it is not at all about that. As a minister, ensuring that one's authorities function in a good and balanced manner and fulfil their tasks is within the mandate of the government and is part of the government's task. Now we have an end to the most important infrastructure investment in Sweden, which is of great importance for jobs and growth in Stockholm and the Stockholm region and in the long run throughout Sweden. It is serious that the Minister does not even want to discuss this issue or have any idea or proposal on how the Stockholm bypass is to be completed, but instead chooses to passively observe while the construction is stationary. As far as the New Ka rolinian hospital is concerned, Mr President, I am among those who have always opposed the funding model that has been chosen. The remarkable thing is the very short memory of Social Democracy in such cases – not because it has to do with this interpellation, but it was Tomas Eneroth's party that voted in favour of the construction and financing model that is now in force. However, I belonged to those who opposed it from the beginning. I do not know what Tomas Eneroth has said about this. Mr President, I would like to Tomas Eneroth and Social Democracy promised gold and green forests. Of this, however, there were delayed trains, increased taxes, a major breakdown at the Swedish Transport Agency and now a stagnant construction of Bypass Stockholm. It is an election movement, and once again Tomas Eneroth and Social Democracy will promise gold and green forests. But we can once again expect increased taxes and delayed trains. We have stopped road construction, and right now what is perhaps the biggest investigation ever in the Swedish Parliament and the Constitutional Committee about a historical safety accident at the Swedish Transport Agency is going on. In a situation where the government has stacked failure on failure and added Stockholm hostility to Stockholm's hostility, Tomas Eneroth chooses to stand completely passive and aside from the fact that the bypass is standing still. This is also happening, Mr President, after the government itself stopped the construction. Can Tomas Eneroth at least sort out why the government stopped the construction and chose to let taxpayers pay a cost of SEK 4 million each day to let the construction stand still?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-140	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Niklas Wykman would like to get away from the issue and make this a general political debate. I have no worries about that, although perhaps the President does. I note that the Stockholms with this government have gained higher employment. In fact, we have the highest employment ever measured in Sweden. This was not the case when the alliance government ruled Sweden. At the time, the great issue of the elections was unemployment among young people. Niklas Wykman, along with other moderate representatives, went out and warned that a Social Democratic-led government would mean that young people in hordes would go out into unemployment, speaking of the large subsidies that the bourgeois government gave to Max, McDonald's and other companies. Youth unemployment is now the lowest in 14 years. We removed the alliance government's inefficient subsidies on the service land of Aden. We ensured that we trained people when jobs grew up. Now we have low youth unemployment. We have the highest level of employment ever. We also took hold of the housing building, which I know many Stockholmers are very happy about. Now you don't have to think that it's a dream to get a home, but there's a chance of getting a home in the future. Let us hope, and let us ensure, that we have a large volume of residential building even in the future! In the same way, we are taking on the infrastructure investments, where the alliance government did not make investments. This applies to both maintenance and new investments. One reason why we have signalling errors, faults and electrical errors, both in the Stockholm region and in other parts of the country, is that the previous government for a long time neglected to invest enough in railway maintenance and railways. This was in a situation where the Stockholmers themselves wanted to go more trains. I am therefore pleased that, within the framework of the Stockholm negotiations and the Swedish negotiations, we have been able to reach important agreements for investments. I am pleased to be a minister of state in a government that spends 100 billion more on infrastructure in the Stockholm area than the bourgeois government did. But this cannot cause me to intervene in a conflict between an authority that has to carry out a mission and an individual contractor. The basic question is obviously that Niklas Wykman thinks that the government should go in and judge whether it is the Finnish Transport Administration or NCC that is right in the conflict that is going on. It's not the government's job. I am once again surprised that Niklas Wykman chooses this commitment, when instead we could see a broader joint effort to continue to develop Stockholm. I'm doing this because I know it's good for the whole country. When I lead the Arlanda Council, I do so not only for the Stockholm region but for the whole country. When we decide on important social and infrastructure investments in the future, these will affect both the Stockholm region and the rest of the country. That it would be anti-Stockholm to be against profits in welfare was not wise to say so, if I am to be nuanced. There are a lot of Stockholmers who think that it is completely wrong that companies should make big profits from doing welfare activities and not reinvesting profits in schools or in health care. I don't think it would be anti-Stockholm to be for Norrbotniabanan either. Very many of those who live in Stockholm may come from the northern parts of the country and dream that with fast and good transport they will be able to get up to the Norrland coast. The polemic that Niklas Wykman is engaged in is about polarising Swedish politics and putting Stockholmers against other people in this country, and it is a dangerous development. We do not need more polarisation in Swedish politics. We need more cooperation. We need more people who dare to look to the bigger picture and realise that this is the Swedish model. That is how we will meet the challenges ahead, not by widening gaps and dividing people.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-153	Mr President, I would like to Stockholm's public transport is better than ever. There are more travellers, higher revenues and better punctuality. In addition, the alliance in Stockholm has made great efforts to increase quality and frequency for those travelling collectively. This is unfortunately opposed by a government that stopped the construction of the Passage, which will make it more difficult to expand public transport in the future, which in turn makes it more difficult for motorists to reconcile everyday life. This is countered by a government that is unable to provide the track quality and slots promised in Stockholm. Of course, the fact that Tomas Eneroth cannot now answer the question of what he intends to do to get the construction going again is worrying. Tomas Eneroth says he can't do anything to continue the construction of the Passage. But the truth is that the government could stop the construction for SEK 4 million a day. To no avail at all, the government chose to stop the construction of Bypass Stockholm. Now that the building is stationary because of ambiguities, however, the government can do nothing. Nevertheless, I am prepared to say that there may be something to the effect that this government can, in fact, almost only create problems and not solve any. Tomas Eneroth says: We could create the problems by stopping the construction of Bypass Stockholm at a cost of SEK 4 million per day. Now that there are other problems, there is nothing the government can do. The conclusion, Mr President, is that for Stockholm, this government can only create problems but not solve a single problem.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-158	Mr President, I would like to I myself have been in opposition in this House to the then bourgeois government. For a while in Parliament I tried to use the agitation that it is all the government's fault, it does not understand the people's best interests and we in the opposition do have all the answers. I finally noticed that it was not a successful strategy. You were made a little whiny. People stopped listening. It is not quite the way people expect politicians to take responsibility. I think that we in Sweden need to think about what mandate we as elected representatives have, whether we are on the government side or on the opposition side. To paint such a black and white scenario, using invectives such as the government being anti-Stockholm or exaggerating the risks will probably not benefit people's interest in politics. Today, a great many people are concerned about the gaps that exist in society. It is not beneficial to paint a picture of S tockholm's interests against the interests of the rest of the country. It's not like that. I have had the privilege of living in this city and commuting to it for many years. I enjoy Stockholm, and I am pleased that it is now being built in Stockholm, that it is being invested in Stockholm. But I am also concerned about how regional politicians sometimes carry out projects that widen the gap. Through the national efforts we make, employment in Sweden is now increasing to record levels. More is being built and more is being invested. It creates hope for the future. Then I do not think that politics benefits from saying that the government wants to invest in jobs in rural areas, in infrastructure investments in Norrland or at home in Småland. On the contrary, I believe that Stockholmers are deeply involved in the whole of Sweden's development. I do not share the picture that Niklas Wykman presents here. Again, I will not intervene in a conflict between an individual entrepreneur and an authority. It's not the government's responsibility. Thank you for a good and interesting debate. I appreciate the mention of the concept of empowerment, and I look forward to further debates.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-165	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs what measures he intends to take to address the problems of criminals using coordination numbers. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The purpose of the coordination number is for authorities and other fields of activity to have a common identifier also for non-registered persons. Coordination numbers thus play an important role in society as the number meets the authorities' need for safe communication regarding people who do not have a strong connection with Swedish society. The rules for personal identity numbers and coordination numbers are set out in the Population Accounts Act and the Population Accounts Regulation. The identity of the person shall, as a general rule, be established for the purposes of assigning a coordination number. It is the authority requesting the allocation of the coordination number that shall assess the need for such a number and whether the identity of the person can be considered to be established. In the cases that have now been noted, it is the Swedish Transport Agency that has requested the Swedish Tax Agency to assign the coordination number for the change of ownership of vehicles. The identity check of the Swedish Transport Agency is carried out by the person sending a copy of his/her identity document to the authority. In case of suspicion of a tampered copy or false identity document, no coordination number is requested and the transfer of ownership is refused unless the case is supplemented by correct documents. The Swedish Transport Agency has taken a number of measures to address the problem of identity control in connection with change of ownership. Procedures have been reviewed and instructions clarified. In 2017, the Swedish Transport Agency also initiated an administrative cooperation on the matter with, among other things, the Swedish Tax Agency, in order to identify what the relevant authorities can do together and individually. The government assumes that authorities will ensure the handling of identity checks when requesting a coordination number. However, problems remain linked to coordination numbers within the Swedish Transport Agency. There, a working group is currently working on finding further measures to address the management of coordination numbers. Results of the internal investigation will be presented in the spring. In so far as the Swedish Transport Agency sees the need for action outside its own area, it will draw the attention of the Government to this. I will, of course, follow this issue in close dialogue with the Authority.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-171	Mr President, I would like to I have been involved in this matter for some time. I had a debate at the beginning of the summer with the Minister of Justice. I therefore put the interpellation to him to follow up the debate that we had last May. At that time, I got the impression that the Minister of Justice and the Government knew that this has been a problem for some time and that it would now be dealt with. As I see it, very little has happened. The problem, Mr President, is that it is very easy to access temporary social security numbers, so-called coordination numbers. There is not only one way that you can get the coordination number, but right now it is the Transport Agency that is in the spotlight. I would recommend that the Government take note of a report that came from the National Operations Department of the Police a year ago, Crime Tools for International Crime Works. It is about how coordination numbers and car goalkeepers are done. In my opinion, limits should be set. The police are proposing measures that I have also exercised in the Riksdag. For example, it should not be allowed to have more than one car. I can tell Minister Eneroth that there are examples of people with coordination numbers who have 10, 100, 1 000 or 2 000 cars. Then it should be reasonable to set a limit. There may be legitimate reasons for getting a coordination number, but there is an abuse here. Then you should look at Norway. There are time-limited coordination numbers. Our coordination numbers are valid forever. There should be a limit there. Then there is the rather obvious thing that you should identify yourself when you want a temporary social security number. It should be demonstrated to the police, the Tax Office or the Transport Agency, perhaps at a citizens' office, Mr President, but that is not the case. This is where the problem lies. Instead, paper copies are sent in. I see that both the Government and I have paper copies in front of us, and they may be rather blurry. But these ones that are sent in are really smudged-- I've seen them myself-- and still go right through. The report by the police has looked closely at 512 coordination numbers. For those of you who listen to the debate, I would like to tell you that these owned 28 897 cars. This system now in place is one reason why Sweden appears to be so positive and beneficial – also according to the police – to work in for foreign theft leagues. There are different types of crime in which this is used. Some are about the criminal theft leagues. For them it is perfect to have these cars that are not registered or valued for. It would be dangerous if someone were to run into them, but when the drivers get caught, it is not they themselves who own the cars. Above all, Mr President, when the police, after many people, try to find the anchor person, it is in many cases a personal identity number that does not exist.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for your commitment! I can honestly say that I share the commitment, and I appreciate it. I am deeply concerned about the development of car goalkeepers, and this is an issue that I myself have also been involved in in the past. In addition to the 25 million that we set aside in the budget bill for three years on behalf of the municipalities so that they can transport vehicles and have a little more muscle to get to the physical problems of car goalkeepers, we are now setting up an investigation. Björn Hansson of the Court of Appeal will quickly – until 30 June – investigate more tools to give both the police and the Kronofogdemyndigheten the opportunity to curb the car goalkeeper business. In this context, he also has the freedom to raise other proposals. I think this is important, and I am prepared to turn over a great many stones to curb this. It is a question of using this system to organise criminal activities. I am very pleased that the Swedish Transport Agency is now setting up an internal working group to come up with concrete measures to ensure that the coordination numbers are properly handled by 31 March. I am probably as upset as Mikael Oscarsson that this has become a tool for organised crime, and I am very keen that the authorities use and get the right tools to curb the development as quickly as possible. I note that during the time of the alliance government it was only during the last year of its reign that the car goalkeepers were noticed and there was a mission. When the law that then came into force is now being evaluated and we see that there are shortcomings, I think it is important that we are prepared to move forward. This should not be a partisan issue, nor is it. The issue is both that we in politics should give the right tools to the authorities so that they can intervene and that the police and the Swedish Enforcement Authority can make the right efforts. I take a very positive view of how not least the police in Malmö have worked systematically and successfully with mapping and in this way have been able to stop car goalkeepers. I also see how Gothenburg has begun to use new technology and accessibility to curb development. I can therefore assure Mikael Oscarsson that the government takes this extremely seriously. We not only announce money but also set up a clear investigation to be completed by 30 June. In it, Björn Hansson will propose more measures. I look forward to following the Swedish Transport Agency's internal working group, which will work to ensure that the rules on coordination numbers are correctly applied. I also assume that, in dialogue with all other authorities, the Tax Agency will also ensure that the coordination numbers are used correctly. I have noted that the Swedish Tax Agency has also communicated this in public media. My hope, then, is that both Mikael Oscarsson's and the government's commitment to the issue will lead us to reverse the development, get fewer car goalkeepers and thus make it more difficult for the criminal activity that is currently going on in Sweden. I think this is extremely serious and therefore I am grateful for the interpellation and I think it is good that the issue is highlighted in this way.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-192	Mr President, I would like to What the government says is true, and it's even worse. This is increasing. Only yesterday I spoke to a leading person at NOA who told me that foreign theft leagues are growing. They account for over 50% of burglaries. Then we have to look at what we can do. I am pleased with the words about my commitment, but there is a difference, namely that the Government is a minister and has the opportunity to influence. I find it a little sad that another eight months have now passed without any change in this. Let's take another lap about what the report is about: foreign theft leagues operating in Sweden. It's done that way they have a person who goes around and gps-marks which houses they're going to bet on. Maybe a couple of people with nine villas in a morning in Sunnersta, Uppsala, who have had problems, or somewhere else, and they earn up to 3 000 SEK a day. Finland has significantly fewer burglaries. This is a fraction, perhaps up to 20 times less in relation to the number of citizens. What makes Finland different from Sweden? First of all, we must do something about the scandal of the coordination numbers. Investigations in all honor, but now go home and make sure to give the order that you can't own this many cars! Why not check where the coordination numbers are and whether they are real people? It cannot continue in the way we now have it. There are other things too. Our neighbours Norway, Finland, Denmark, Poland and Germany have all so-called ANPR cameras at the borders. What does that mean? Well, it's cameras that see if there's a car that you haven't paid taxes for and that's not registered. It blinks, and you have control. Otherwise, it'll be like a smoke-filled room where we don't get things right. I also raised the issue of border police. I had asked to have a debate with the colleague of the Government, but now the question was over so I can take this. The government can send him the question. Border police aren't working. What the police would like is to have powers when, for example, there comes a ferry from Riga. Riga is an amazingly beautiful city and is located in a fantastic country, but there are theft leagues from there. When one comes for the 17th time and is convicted one time after the other one should of course be rejected. Another issue is when you apply for asylum. Very many from Georgia are currently seeking asylum. It'll take about a year to process it. Does the government know how many percent are allowed to stay? 0 percent. Does the Government know what's going on in the meantime? You can get caught one time after another, which also happens, without being expelled. Nothing's happening. I have been in Parliament for quite a few years and know that a single decision cannot change all this. But we must look at ourselves in the mirror, Mr President. Why does Sweden seem so favorable to work in? We need to take a series of measures here that will make it impossible to apply for asylum one week before the following week has already been caught a few times. But of course there should be a fast track if you come from a safe country. What does the Government say about these proposals to own a single car with a coordination number and to check them out?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-202	Mr President, I would like to I said earlier that I appreciate the commitment. What I do not appreciate is that Mikael Oscarsson immediately withdraws Swedish asylum legislation and the right of asylum in a matter of car goalkeepers and car theft. It is a rhetoric that I do not often hear from Christian Democratic representatives. Instead, they have protected the right of asylum and have considered it important that people who flee for their lives from war and oppression or torture should have the opportunity not to be rejected at the border but to be able to seek asylum and have it tried legally in Sweden. I realise that the commitment sometimes leads the rhetoric to go away, but we need to be careful what we say in the Swedish Parliament Chamber. In the same way, I note, to be clear, that the development of car goalkeepers ran its course in the 21st century. As late as June and October 2014, there were 45 000 - 46 000 car goalkeepers. It was only then, after eight years, that the bourgeois government was pleased to act by setting up an investigation. Since then, we have put forward a number of proposals to help the police intervene. The Ministry of Justice has presented 100 proposals, I think it is up to it, ranging from increased possibilities for camera surveillance to more resources to the police than it itself requests. What I am responsible for in the area of infrastructure is to ensure that the Transport Agency's side, but also the regulatory framework that I have at my disposal, has better opportunities to curb development with car goalkeepers. Therefore, in February, we are now setting up an investigation to be completed in June. In this way, we will be able to get the right tools for the police to use cars remotely and to stop illegal handling as soon as possible. If the investigator also wants to look at the number of vehicles handled, the investigator is free to look at various possibilities. He will have that freedom, because I am prepared to turn over all the stones to make sure that we have the right tools to break the development that has taken place for a long time. That's where I share Mikael Oscarsson's commitment. We cannot watch criminal developments continue, but we must provide the right tools here. But it is equally important – and I know that Mikael Oscarsson knows with the experience he has in the Swedish Parliament – that the proposals the government makes must be prepared and have background documents before they are put on the board of Parliament. Therefore, I am pleased that we are now investigating this quickly, so that I get a basis for making important decisions that will give the police and the bailiff better tools to curb the development. Once again, this is not a partisan issue, but there is a social development that all of us politicians who have to work in these times have to take a stand on – how do we promote positive development, and how do we curb increased crime, whether it is internationally organised or not? I note that the efforts made in the field of traffic have not always been supported by the Mikael Oscarsson Party. As we move forward with cabotage controls, clapping and penalties, and in this way more stringent regulations regulate foreign road hauliers' transport into Sweden, when we even make demands that they, like many Swedish road hauliers, should have winter tires on their trucks and that you should not be able to sit and drive trucks or other heavy vehicles and talk on mobile phones at the same time, the proposal is to ensure that we tighten up the control and increase road safety but also improve and equalise the competitive conditions between Swedish road haulage industry and foreign road haulage companies. I think this is important. It should harmonise with EU rules, but it is about getting things right. The police's tools are one part – the other is about the rules we have with regard to cabotage controls. I welcome Mikael Oscarsson and his party into that community.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-210	Mr President, I would like to Of course you should be able to apply for asylum. What we are saying is that there can be a fast track for those who apply for asylum but are arrested and convicted for crime, such as theft, especially when you come from a so-called safe country. I mentioned Georgia – 100% can go back. Of course, you can try, but if you show that you are involved in crime, it is clear that there must be consequences. Anything else is unreasonable. This creates insecurity. Now it wants action to be taken and a response to it. There is evidence from the police, from the NOA, showing the major problem of coordination numbers. Is this question included in the directives for the investigator? Otherwise, it is very strange, given that this is such a vital part of this activity, which creates so much insecurity and which also drives human trafficking, human trafficking and organised begging. There are concrete proposals. There are six proposals which the police have listed and which we have also put forward in Parliament. It is about the constitutional change – that it should be illegal to own more than one car without special permission. What does the Minister say about this lot of cars? Is it not reasonable to impose such a restriction? And the question of identifying – does the Minister not agree that this must be introduced immediately, whether to register a new limited company in Sweden or buy a car? Here it is a question of changing ownership conditions hundreds of times a week. Shouldn't there be a sensor that you could turn on? Can a mission be given to the Swedish Transport Agency? Now you have to do all this manually. The fine words are good, but this creates insecurity, and now action is required. These things need to be fixed, and quickly!
i-81cb35a2763b765a-214	Mr President, I would like to Again: With this commitment and with the level of ambition that Mikael Oscarsson wants the Swedish Transport Agency to have, I assume that this means that the Christian Democrats in the forthcoming budget propose substantially increased funds to our traffic authorities. In that case, it must mean for the Swedish Transport Agency, because if we are to provide the possibility of sensor or personal meetings, then that authority must be located in large parts of the country. That is what we are talking about. We have tried to streamline and coordinate this. But it is clear that anything is possible if you are prepared to provide sufficient resources. I think the most important thing is that it is legally secure resources and that it ensures that the errors that exist in terms of it is not legally certain. I think that's serious. In this context, the Authority must ensure that the procedures available are better applied and that they are safer from an individual and privacy point of view. There I know that the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency work intensively together, in the same way as the Swedish Tax Agency is keen that all other authorities apply coordination numbers correctly. It is also the case that the investigation that we are now setting up has clear directives. It will evaluate the legislative changes that were made, look at how we can use the Act of Claims, and develop a regulation on aid to municipalities for the costs of vehicle removal, scaffolding and scrapping, and propose other measures to address the problem of vehicle goalkeepers. The last wording I am particularly pleased with, because it means that the investigator has a free hand to propose a lot more, and it is my way of signaling clearly from the government to the investigator: now make sure that we get the right tool to stop the development with car goalkeepers! But when we make the change, it should be done in a legally secure way. We must make it in a way that also enables the Authority to implement this. But I'm anxious for it to happen quickly. For eight years, the alliance government ruled. It wasn't until the end of the year that they lifted their finger and set up an investigation. We are acting considerably faster than that.
i-RFSz5QzhZCFdGQYUbMtDUk	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll and Minister Peter Eriksson. An issue shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-219	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Strandhäll. With government policy, waiting times in healthcare have increased sharply. Confidence in care has weakened. And instead of reforms to overcome this, the government has invested in free reforms. It has, so to speak, become free for older people to sit longer and longer in the emergency room or to wait longer for surgery. When fewer and fewer county councils meet the health guarantee, which means that you have the right to see a doctor within seven days, the government wants to introduce a new health guarantee where this right is removed. The Government's own expert authority, Healthcare Analysis, advises against its referrals: a proposal risks leading to increased inequality, reduced access to doctors, a eroded value offering and ultimately a reduced confidence in primary care. ..................................................... However, the government calls it a reinforced health guarantee. George Orwell would have been green, perhaps even red - green with envy, if he had heard this news. How can such a weakening of the health guarantee be described as a reinforcement?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-224	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, the care queues began to increase during your time in power, Jakob Forssmed. In addition, your government, under the leadership of Minister of Social Affairs Göran Hägglund, introduced a queue billionaire. This was done not to solve the staff problems in healthcare but to get health professionals, who were already stressed, to run faster. As a result, health care personnel peak their sick leave due to stress. We are now taking a thorough look at that problem. The health guarantee that the government is now introducing means that it will be possible to receive care in primary care more quickly. It also means that we take advantage of all the legitimate professions that exist in health care. That is exactly what the Swedish healthcare system should do. If you need to see a psychologist, which about every other person on sick leave has, due to stress-related depression and anxiety, you should meet a psychologist. If you need to see a physiotherapist, since you have problems with your back, you should meet a physiotherapist. And you're supposed to do it faster than today.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-227	Mr President, I would like to If one believes that queue billions are the cause of health and safety problems in the healthcare sector, a somewhat inadequate analysis has been carried out. I am happy to return to the Agency's Health Analysis assessment of your proposal, Annika Strandhäll. They warn that it is at risk of increasing geographical inequality and differences between groups. Is that not exactly the opposite of what the government says it is aiming for with its proposals?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-229	Mr President, I would like to During your time in power, Jakob Forssmed, you saw with surgical precision not to invest in health care personnel. We can see the consequences of that today. We are now introducing a healthcare guarantee that has very strong support among all healthcare professions. We take advantage of all the skills available in primary care and ensure that people get access to care faster. That's what most people think is good – so am I.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-231	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister Mikael Damberg. The Öresund region is a research-tight and dynamic area with great potential for growth. In Skåne there are two universities and one university. Max lab oratoriet in Lund is completed, and ESS is under construction. With two labs and international collaboration on a very large scale, there are also unimagined opportunities. When extensive research is carried out, there is also the opportunity to commercialise many new innovations. But it may not happen. Researchers who are not good enough at commercialisation need more support. How can the Government support the development of the whole chain: research, innovation and commercialisation?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-235	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. It is an exuberant and strong knowledge region where a lot is happening. And the new university is another flag that will put Sweden on the map. I think it was yesterday that a new ranking came from Bloomberg over innovation countries in the world. And Sweden ended up in place two. We are only after South Korea when it comes to innovation. This has to do with our strong universities and research environments. Over time, a competitive society has been built that creates many jobs. When we look a little deeper at the figures, however, we notice that the commercialisation phase has been a problem. We're a little mediocre there. It has been in focus for me as Minister of Economic Affairs since day one. For example, we have worked with Big Science Sweden, where we give SEK 30 million, via Vinnova, the Swedish Research Council and the Swedish Agency for Growth, to engage the business community more in these major research projects, such as ESS and Max IV.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-240	Mr President, I would like to It is also important to get universities and colleges to encourage their researchers to really try to drive their innovations in order to commercialise them. I think we need much better infrastructure here. How can we work to get this infrastructure, which will lead to more products being commercialised? It is also about advice and getting students to understand this.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-242	Mr President, I would like to We work a lot to get universities and higher education institutions to collaborate more with the community around them, with research one but also with education. There's a lot of the key. In addition, an investigation is now looking at how the resource allocation system will change over time, so that we get more collaboration between universities and knowledge in research and with industry outside. But incubators and innovation offices also play a major role in this. We'll keep working on it. There is still potential here for Sweden to develop and become even better.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-246	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense and concerns anti-aircraft. There has been a request for a quote regarding the Patriot system. We believe that there is another system which is at least as capable and better, namely the French-Italian system. Aster 30 and above all the Swedish defence industry with the Swedish radar is far superior to the American alternative, the Patriot system. It is regrettable that we will have a completely undefeated air defence, because the Patriot system cannot be applied to our corvettes. We will miss a depth in our air defence system. How does the Secretary of Defense view this very thing?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-250	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank you for the question from Roger Richtoff. We have joined a letter of request to the United States, to which they will respond. After that, we will have to conduct a negotiation process via FMV on the final costs. The choice made by the government is based on the recommendation that the Swedish Armed Forces have obtained from a thorough analysis of the various needs of the Swedish Armed Forces. I have gone through the documents extremely carefully and talked to a wide range of experts in this context. I am convinced that the request we have made is the one that best lives up to our requirements. What opportunities exist for Swedish industry will be discussed in a broader perspective. These are the things we have to come back to when we finally see what comes out of the process.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-255	Mr President, I would like to I'm tying up the question of costs. Polish newspapers – if I have a correct translation – say that the costs are totally unacceptable. This also applies to Romania. Sufficient numbers of robots for the Swedish part would amount to 20 – 25 billion. But the number of robots could be reduced. It is an enormous cost, and there can be a cuckoo in the defense. How does the Secretary of Defense view that part?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-257	Mr President, I would like to It is FMV that manages the negotiation process. I think the wisest thing for both me and others is not to speculate too much about the final result until we see it. I will come back with information, explanations and results on the day the negotiations are concluded and I have something to say. It's better to talk when there's something on the table instead of speculating in advance.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-259	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. Much is being built in Sweden, and that is of course very positive. Green policy has an impact on the construction of society. At the same time, it is important to build climate smart and not build into excessive car dependence. This is particularly important given that Sweden in international studies comes out rather poorly when it comes to building itself into car dependence and how external trade is expanded. It is something that knocks out the retail trade that has previously existed in the inner cities. Does the Minister of Housing have ideas and ideas on how to build in a way that does not allow us to build ourselves into a premature car addiction?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-263	Mr President, I would like to There are a number of projects. There is a project in the Ministry of Enterprise called Smart Cities that includes these issues. There are also a number of practical examples of how to start planning new residential areas around Sweden without the car ending up in the centre, as it was before. I think a good example is Vallastaden in Linköping – this year's housing fair. There the car is parked outside the area. In the residential area, the street space is used for completely different functions. It is more social and other aspects that make it a very nice, interesting, exciting and attractive residential area. I would like to recommend municipalities and others planning residential areas today to look at these examples and see what opportunities there are to use the street space in a smarter way.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-266	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Housing, for your answer. I share the enthusiasm for several of these projects mentioned by the Minister for Housing. I thought I'd be a little more specific. Today, there is a formulation in the Planning and Construction Act that causes municipalities to require parking spaces in new constructions. It is something that increases the cost of building and makes you build yourself into addiction. Does the Minister of Housing consider that there is reason to review the wording of the Planning and Construction Act?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-269	Mr President, I would like to That's the parking standard you're talking about. It means that in many places it is considered necessary to build a certain number of parking spaces in relation to the shopping area and the area being built. That is an incorrect interpretation. The number of parking spaces to be built is voluntary. The most important thing to stress is that the interpretation that some have been making for a long time, that is to say that a certain number of parking spaces must be built, is wrong.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-271	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Strandhäll. On 14 December 2017, a majority in the Riksdag expressed its desire for the Government to reintroduce the lower time limit in health insurance as part of its efforts to reduce long-term sick leave. On 1 February 2016, the Government removed the longer deadline in violation of accumulated expertise and competence, and the Government has on several occasions expressed its intention not to reintroduce the deadline. However, the government does not represent the will of the people, but it does. Since a majority in Parliament declared that the deadline should be re-established, I would like to ask the Minister the following question: will the government respect Parliament's decisions and take measures to reintroduce the time limit?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-274	Mr President, I would like to The government, of course, has the greatest respect for the Riksdag and the will of the Riksdag. During the period 2010 – 2014, when there was a lower time limit in health insurance in Sweden, sick leave increased by over 50 per cent. At the same time, 100 000 Swedes were insured out of health insurance. Sickness rates rose, and Swedes were insured out of health insurance. It was not that sickness rates dropped or that people became healthier. With the government's policy, which we have applied during this term of office, the sickness rates have now both flattened and decreased. More people are coming back to work and health again. That should be a common ambition of the Parliament.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-277	Mr President, I would like to History writing is one thing, but now I asked a question about the future. Since the Minister was not present when this question was discussed in plenary on 14 December, it is obvious to me that I should like to ask the question: how will the Government now work to implement what Parliament has expressed?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-279	Mr President, I would like to The Government has, of course, taken note of Parliament's wishes on the matter. We will, of course, consider the issue and put it in relation to the policy pursued by the government. The results of the government's policy must be put in relation to the results obtained during the years Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security. Sickness rates ran out while 100 000 people were insured from the insurance.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-281	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Damberg. I think that much of what this government is doing in terms of industrial strategy, export strategy and so on is perfectly all right, except for arms exports to some very dubious countries. What has started to worry me is the vibes that have emerged on the issue of strike rights and the companies or companies in which the state owns all or is one of the largest owners. They use threats to take in temporary agencies to carry out regular tasks unless saving conditions are accepted, which means, in concrete terms, lower working conditions. I have received information that SAS would use such methods towards cabin crew in the negotiations. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: Is it true that such threats may occur in companies where the state is one of the largest owners?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-286	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by thanking you for the praise. I understand that it's great praise when Birger Lahti says it's okay. Then it feels like we've got the wave because we're doing something good. Then came a serious question about the state companies and how we choose to run. We have expectations of the state companies to behave exemplaryly. There are some companies where the state is the sole owner of the companies. It will be a different type of governance of those companies than in the companies where the state is a partner. It may be a small part but perhaps a large part in relation to other owners. SAS is a commercial company and is located on the stock market. The State is the largest shareholder together with a number of other states. We also have clear expectations of a part-owned company such as SAS to comply with laws and regulations and to act exemplaryly. But the operational issues are SAS, not the owner's.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-291	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But bad examples spread as easily as good examples. Would it not be better for a social democratic-led government to try to set a good example when negotiating conditions in the labour market than to set a bad example? They spread as easily as good examples.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-292	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that SAS management also sees great value in reaching agreement with trade unions. A great many agreements have been concluded in recent years – also some tough ones, where it has been about reducing costs in the company to be competitive and become more profitable and stable. I am absolutely convinced that the company also sees a value in reaching agreement with the trade unions. It is the expectation I have – that the companies in which the state owns shares also behave properly in the labour market and try to have a good dialogue with the trade unions.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-295	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll. Pensioners in Sweden entered 2018 with expectations of more money in the pension envelope. Then 150 000 80-year-olds and older people were met with a shock: Up to SEK 1 000 less per month. This is based on an agreement between SKL and certain trade unions. The state was under-informed about the agreement when it was concluded but is not responsible for it. My question is: can the state in any way make it easier for all these people who met with this shock?
i-YHLE2qPUTbW1dy51HNpQc6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Barbro Westerholm! After all, the government is investing 3 billion in removing the so-called pensioner's tax on a large number of pensioners. Three out of four Swedish pensioners will get a little better financially thanks to it. I was very moved by the situation that faced 150 000 pensioners when it turned out that an old occupational pension agreement from the 1990s, signed when ATP disappeared, now has consequences for a group of vulnerable elderly pensioners. I have also made it clear that I wish and hope that the parties responsible for this – the government has no tools in the toolbox here – sit down and talk about how to sort it out. I have been given indications that such things also happen.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-302	Mr President, I would like to That was a clear answer: the state cannot go in and repair this. I didn't think so, but for those who look at this and follow the question, it's important to know about. After all, they knew about the pensioner's tax earlier. This is a shock to many people. Some are also married couples, and then it's a couple of thousand.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-304	Mr President, I would like to I stood at Järntorget in Gothenburg on Thursday and talked to a lot of seniors about the fact that we are now investing a lot in making it better for pensioners. I then spoke to a lady who had worked her whole life as a nurse and now would lose $300 a month. She cried, and almost me too. I very much hope that the parties responsible for this agreement will find a solution for these pensioners.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-307	Mr President, I would like to Mental ill-health among children and young people in Sweden is increasing more than in comparable countries. In parallel with this gloomy development, the demands for parents of young children to work full-time and for children to start early in preschool have increased. Developing a secure connection takes time and must take time. It provides basic security that often remains for the rest of your life. But the government has ordered an investigation that goes in the opposite direction. The proposals involve less flexibility, shorter parental insurance, increased quotas and new restrictions. We Christian Democrats will at all times be fighting against anti-family proposals and for the right of all families with children to make their own choices and shape their lives. I have taken note of the proposal that quotas for two more months should not be included in the fast-track referral that is being sent out. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether the government has placed the proposal where it belongs, namely in the trash basket.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-312	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that we have parental insurance in Sweden that helps also the small children to have access to both their parents. Today we have parental insurance in Sweden that we have had for 43 years and a situation where mothers still take 90 per cent of leave for children under two years of age. Today we know so much more. We know that children who have access to both their parents when the children are really young also have a better connection and connection to both their parents – that is something that is extremely important – and that the children whose parents shared parental leave when the children were young to a greater extent live alternately in separation. It is, of course, in everyone's interest to increase equality. The government is now moving forward quickly with two important proposals – to increase the possibility for star families to share parental leave and another proposal. We'll have to get the rest back to as soon as possible.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-316	Mr President, I would like to My question is how quotas and other restrictions on parental insurance give children and parents more time for each other to link and put the puzzle of life. The more square the systems are, the less conditions are created for families to get their everyday lives together. It is the children who pay the price for this. We on the Christian Democrats will therefore say no to all forms of quotas and to the anti-family proposals contained in this investigation.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-319	Mr President, I would like to It is truly hostile to the family not to think that we should have the best possible conditions for both parents to share in their children's lives when they are really small. It has also been an important part of this government's policy but also the policy of previous Social Democratic governments – that you should have more time with your children, for example through parental insurance. We know that the Christian Democrats do not share that ambition.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-323	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Defence is in the Chamber, so it would be wrong for me not to address a question to him. We who are interested in strengthening Sweden's defence capabilities go some interesting weeks and months to meet. Now comes the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base for 2019, the Swedish Armed Forces' annual report of what happened in 2017, the Swedish Armed Forces' perspective plan and the so-called materialberg investigation. As soon as someone from the Alliance points out the need to provide more resources, it is usually dismissed by the government side as Nevertheless, together with the government, we have contributed to a total of 10.2 billion more in terms of the actual focus decision, 500 million SEK in the spring change budget and 22.7 billion in the 2018 budget. My question to the Minister for Defence is this: with all that we see, would it not be reasonable for Sweden now to increase its defence efforts towards the equivalent of 2% of GDP during, say, the next ten-year period?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interesting question! I don't usually use disparaging judgments or hints to that when it comes to those I've made up with about economic levels. On the other hand, I think that in the political debate it can sometimes be a little overwhelmed when you stack amounts on each other and the one with the highest amount wins the competition and should appear to be the best in this context. What we need to do is carefully analyse which measures have the most impact and in what way we actually strengthen military capabilities. Then you have to put price tags. I am deeply aware that a lot of documents will be produced in the future, including the budget base. It will not be entirely straightforward, and it will be necessary to deal with it on the basis of the realities that are. Our focus is to increase military capabilities until 2020 and beyond.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-332	Mr President, I would like to I do not think this is about a competition, but I think that those of us who are inspired by strengthening Swedish defence capabilities must also realise that this will require further efforts in the coming years. Therefore, I and the Moderates believe that it is a realistic assessment that during, say, a ten-year period we have to go up in effort to the equivalent of about 2% of the bnp. My specific question is: is this a realistic assessment that the Minister for Defence also shares?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-333	Mr President, I would like to It does not take a deeper understanding to realise that the economy needs to be strengthened if we are to increase military capabilities. I have said this many times; it is not in itself news. On the other hand, I am not prepared to lock myself at any Bnp levels or amounts, but I want this to happen in a planned manner as the issues arise and are to be dealt with. The challenges are too great for us to be locked at amounts and percentages.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-336	Mr President, I would like to In 2017, 56,000 residence permits were granted to asylum seekers and their relatives, while 56,000 housing units were completed in Sweden. The result of the government's migration policy is devastating for housing policy and the housing market. At the same time, we have a law of instruction which in practice obliges municipalities to reserve housing for newly arrived immigrants. Few dwellings are left for Swedish residents who are in need of housing. This brings me to my question to the Minister for Housing: will we ever see a balance in the housing market with the government's policy?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-338	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that war is devastating for people and creates huge problems. I believe that everyone who has come from the war in Syria and from the Middle East can testify to this. The vast majority of them are happy to have been able to come to a country that has received them. We have a housing shortage in Sweden. That's because we've been building far too little for a long time; it's not just linked to migration. But now we are building properly, and if we continue to do so, we will be able to ensure that we have decent housing for everyone in this country. I would like to put a counter-question: what is the alternative?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-340	Mr President, I would like to With that answer, the question remains whether we will ever have a balance in the housing market. If we look at the projections for 2018, we see that the number of asylum seekers is still very high, while the number of completed homes does not reach a level that means that we can get a reasonable balance in the housing market within a reasonable time. So my question remains, and I would like to have an answer to it from the Minister.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-341	Mr President, I would like to Counting examples can be done in different ways. If we build 56 000 homes, this means that over 100 000 people have the opportunity to get a dwelling – there are on average 2.1 people per home in Sweden. This also means that if we build more than that, we are able to reduce the housing shortage. However, the problem of housing shortages will exist for quite a long time, which is why it is important that we ensure that housing is maintained and that we do not remove the support we have put in place by the government.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-343	Mr President, I would like to I ask my question to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. It is about entrepreneurs and parental insurance, which is actually a problem. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that, regardless of the form of the company, it is unclear and unpredictable which parental allowance you are entitled to. It is the sickness benefit-based income that is difficult to predict. This means that parents who are entrepreneurs do not take out parental insurance.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-346	For me and the Center Party, the entrepreneurs are important. What is the Minister doing about this?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-347	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Solveig Zander, for this very urgent question! We see, as Solveig Zander says, that entrepreneurs make less use of parental insurance. A work that is now going on at the Ministry of Social Affairs is precisely about how we reposition from the way in which we today calculate sickness benefit-based income, which is very much related to the type of employment you have. This is a problem for entrepreneurs, for combinators and for people who go between different forms of employment. We are now looking at the possibility of introducing historic SGI instead, in accordance with the proposal put forward by the Parliamentary Social Security Committee. You look at what income you have had, not what type of employment you have had. This is a solid work that will take time, but it will be of benefit, among other things, to entrepreneurs, which is important.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-351	Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurs do not take out parental insurance, and your quota system will mean that even fewer entrepreneurs do. This applies in particular to men, 70% of whom already do not take out parental insurance. This means that children miss out on being with both their parents. Why should you have quotas so that it affects entrepreneurs?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-352	Mr President, I would like to Parental insurance is income loss insurance, which covers income that you do not have during parental leave to be able to take parental leave. This is the reason for my answer to your previous question. It must be a real pleasure for Mr Zander that we are now moving forward on a fast track with just part of the parental insurance investigation to make it possible to transfer days to more. This should also benefit entrepreneurs.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-354	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Eriksson. We now have a government that sees the whole of Sweden and has therefore changed the target for broadband coverage so that all people in Sweden are actually covered. We are not leaving 1 million out of it, as the previous government did. Therefore, it led to some joy when Radio Norrbotten reported at the beginning of the week that it would now only cost 5 000 SEK to connect to broadband. I was somewhat sceptical about the task because we have not heard of this before correctly in that way. I would like the Government to explain in more detail how this $5,000 is intended. This is of course very important for many people – those who live at the far end of Sweden.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-357	Mr President, I would like to We have a strong broadband policy that means that everyone should be able to access the new services created online. Very many will also have access to fibre over the next few years, which means a strong connection and also better mobile coverage. But there are some, at the end of the forest, on the mountain and in areas with weak coverage of mobile telephony and where fiber will not be buried in the ground. For them, we are now introducing a guarantee from 1 March: they will be able to access the Internet with the help of the state. It is not as good as broadband, but it will be decent and mean that you can run a business and manage your banking business. The cost is only 5 000 SEK.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-359	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! It is important that we get this clarification about which group it is about. In connection with this one can also say that, given the internet of things and a lot of other things, today I want to be connected wherever I am – not just where I happen to live or have my business. Therefore, it is also important that we consider how we can get better surface coverage. I am thinking of self-driving cars and heavy vehicles, which constantly need to be connected. How does the Government view this?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-362	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency will be publishing new frequencies in the coming year, which means that we will have a better surface coverage of mobile networks. It will also be a start to introduce 5G. This means that more and more people will have a stable, good and robust mobile phone connection and reach the network that way. It is still certainly individual households that are not reached by this, and for them the guarantee is a good opportunity in the future.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-363	Mr President, I would like to This question would normally be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it is urgent, and I am therefore addressing it to Mikael Damberg, who represents the whole government. Swedish citizen Gui Minhai is being held in prison in China. In practice, he was kidnapped and taken to China and has been imprisoned for a long time. He's a political prisoner. All indications indicate that it is his commitment to human rights and freedom of expression that imprison him. The situation has recently worsened when he was again arrested in China. There is reason to fear both for his health and for his safety. I would like to hear what the government intends to do in the form of direct protests against the Chinese Government and whether it intends to get the European Union to formally protest more than it has already done. I also wonder if the government knows who is now holding him prisoner and where. What security agency is it, and has he been subjected to torture or other offensive treatment in captivity?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-367	Mr President, I would like to The government sees with such thirst seriously that Swedish citizen Gui Minhai was arrested by Chinese authorities during an ongoing consular support operation on Saturday. China's ambassador in Stockholm was called up to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs when the arrest took place. As evidenced by media data, he was at the time of arrest in the presence of diplomatic personnel who acted in order to assist a Swedish citizen in need of medical care. It is entirely in accordance with fundamental international rules that give us the right to give our citizens consular support. Chinese authorities have repeatedly assured us that he has been a free man since he was released after serving his sentence for a traffic-related crime and that we can have contact with our citizens. We expect our citizens to be released immediately and to be given the opportunity to meet Swedish diplomatic and medical staff.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-370	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mikael Damberg for his reply. I appreciate the fact that there have been direct protests to the Chinese authorities. It is now important that the protests continue and that pressure be put on China. I would like to return to the question of passing it on to the European Union. We know that the EU's envoys in China have protested. Is it possible to bring it up at a higher political level? I also wonder if you know which security agency in China is holding Gui Minhai in prison and where he is currently being held.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-372	Mr President, I would like to I'll be honest with you and tell you I don't have that information. On the other hand, this is not my primary responsibility in the government. However, I shall speak to the Foreign Minister personally about this Question Time and put forward the views expressed by the leader of the Left Party in this House.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-374	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Since 1 January this year, we have again had military training in Sweden. This means that for the first time in several years we seem to be able to fill the Swedish Armed Forces' 4 000 training places. This creates a new situation and a new opportunity to educate even more people. The government has already indicated an ambition to increase training places from 4 000 to 5 000. This is very good for Swedish defence capabilities, but we can also assume that it means a major change for the Swedish Armed Forces, which now, for the first time in several years, will have the opportunity to train conscripts. My question to the Minister for Defence is simply: what will the re-imposed duty mean for the units?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-377	Mr President, I would like to I must thank Alexandra Völker for the question. With the only professional and professional defence we had in the past, we did not succeed in achieving full units. We didn't have soldiers to occupy all positions with. Therefore, it was necessary to take a decision to reintroduce military service in order to get full units that can be requested also in the given situation. This is really the background. The old staff supply system did not stand up to reality. A combined system such as what we have, both professional soldiers – voluntary employees – and duty soldiers, is a model that also exists in Norway, Estonia and Denmark, so we are not alone in this type of system. I am convinced that this will work in a stabilizing way and contribute to increased military capabilities in Sweden.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-380	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. The consequences of the fact that we have had empty seats on basic education for several years have not least been shown in the officers' programme. That the Armed Forces have enough officers is of course necessary to be able to man both the armed forces and the training organisation in the personnel supply system. The personnel supply investigation therefore proposed to reintroduce the category of commanders with total defence responsibilities. How does the Secretary of Defense view it?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-381	Mr President, I would like to This is something we need to look at in the future. I do not have any opposition in principle on this point, but see it as a natural development. This is, of course, something that needs to be investigated and to which we will have to come back. But it is reasonable to bring this up in the debate, just as Alexandra Völker does.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-382	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. When we get sick and cannot work, we will be able to get financial security and support and help to get back to work. But today's health insurance has not proved to be as safe and predictable as we want it. The Minister has also drawn attention to this. At the 180th day, the Social Insurance Agency conducts a work assessment against the entire labour market, not against normal work but against fictitious work. It doesn't make any sense. We see people who, despite ongoing medical rehabilitation, have their sickness benefit withdrawn. As a result, they may be forced to resign from a job that they might have been able to return to after rehabilitation. It should, of course, be reasonable to wait for the results of an ongoing rehabilitation before deciding on the right to compensation. I am pleased that the government is now addressing this issue and has presented a range of measures. I would like to ask the Minister what measures the government intends to take to ensure that we have health insurance that works when we need it.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-387	Mr President, I would like to If you fall ill in Sweden, you should be able to trust that you have a safe insurance policy and that you receive rapid support to get back to health and work. You'll understand what's happening, and you'll understand what your way back can look like. We see two clear challenges. One is that support for the individual needs to be increased. The second is that the cooperation between the authorities needs to be improved, as well as with the health services. That is why we are now going to review the application of 'normal work' in insurance, and we will also look at how specific reasons in insurance are applied. For those waiting for rehabilitation or having a rehabilitation plan to get back to work, the whole thing should not be interrupted unnecessarily. And when you try people against the labour market, it must of course be a real labour market. Today, the Government also decided on several parts of the mission to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to strengthen coordination and to strengthen dialogue with the healthcare sector.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-390	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs. It is very important to give clear assignments to Försäkringskassan, which for some time has received huge criticism from healthcare, employers and other authorities for having withdrawn from active rehabilitation work in individual cases. It is welcome that Försäkringskassan will become more active externally.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-391	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I also think it is incredibly important for us to be clear about this, no matter what authority it is. It can be the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, which of course has an incredibly important role. It could be the Public Employment Service or, for that matter, the Health Service. All our authorities and social institutions should work together in the best way to support people who are in a vulnerable situation – to get them back to both health and work, if there is such a thing to get back to. It serves the entire community.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-393	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Peter Eriksson. The government has introduced ineffective housing subsidies. With SEK 5.2 billion annually, the market is doped. Unlike in the world of sport, it is allowed. The construction supports are steering in a bad way. They add to the profits of the construction companies and are directed towards Stockholm, which gets almost twice as much as the rest of Sweden. The same is true of the lion's share of municipalities that receive the government's building bonus. They can be found around the big cities. There is almost no support at all for municipalities that would need it best. I take an example from Halland, with 325 000 inhabitants in six municipalities. Of these municipalities, only five receive a building bonus. The smallest – Hylte, with 11,000 inhabitants – cannot even apply. The rest of us are rewarded for what they should have done anyway: designed and built for an increasing population. The question to Peter Eriksson is whether he is satisfied with the way the building bonus is distributed.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-397	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I have to say. D a last build bonus got 199 municipalities to share. This has meant that a large majority of Swedish municipalities have housing supply plans. It's actually a legal requirement for everyone to have it. But only a few years ago, less than a third had plans, which meant that we built homes in Sweden. This is one of the requirements for municipalities to benefit from the building bonus. Another requirement is to build housing. I find it difficult to see why those who do not want or can build housing should receive a bonus that is a support for building.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-399	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Minister for Housing raises the question of follow-up. It turns out that Boverket does not require any restatement of where the money has gone. It is about giving a start decision that does not have to reflect the real housing at all. It may be that they have said that they should make commitments in the area of asylum reception, which they have not lived up to. Much of the construction bonus is paid out to municipalities without having lived up to their commitments. Does the Minister think this is okay?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-400	Mr President, I would like to I can accept criticism which says that we are doing too little, that we should make tougher demands on the municipalities and that we should invest in supporting even more construction. But I find it difficult to understand this criticism. What we do in the government actually contributes to the municipalities investing in building. It is about giving them the resources to hire people who can handle planning and construction matters. The investment aid, which amounted to 10 000 homes over the last year, means that more people can get housing at reasonable rents. I find it hard to believe that's the problem.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-401	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll and is about health care. The functioning of health care is an extremely important issue for our citizens. We see that we have challenges almost daily in the debate that occurs not least in my county, Västernorrland. What I see as an enormous problem in the future is the issue of skills provision. How will we manage to rig this with enough good nurses, nurses and doctors? If we can't get them in place, there's hardly any point to anything else we do. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: what is the government doing to secure the supply of skills?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-404	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kristina Nilsson, for an extremely important question! This is the key issue in terms of the quality of health care and, above all, accessibility. As early as autumn 2015, the government started the expansion to get more midwives, assistant nurses and specialist nurses. This year we will continue to expand medical education. We have also provided funds for nurses to be able to receive study wages to continue their education. We need to ensure that we have enough competent people who can be hired where they are needed. What is also happening in the near future is that we will push SEK 2 billion further to the Swedish County Council to improve working conditions, hire more employees and work with the development of personnel and with work environment issues. This is a step along the way. It will be a very long-term work that we need to do together.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-408	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I believe that this is an effort that will be much more important in the long term than the one that we previously had: the cue billion, which the previous government introduced. The Minister touched on it a little in his first speech today, but I think it might be useful for the Minister to clarify why this is much more urgent than a cue billion.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-409	Mr President, I would like to It was noted that the queue billions available to increase accessibility were aimed at the symptom, namely that we had queues. But the basic problem is that there is a lack of staffing and that we have a generation shift in health care. Then it is not possible to throw money away for the staff to run faster, but we need to train more and make sure that the county councils have the resources to invest in their staff. It is the staff that is the heart of the health care system and that we should protect most.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-411	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, and it is about our Swedish small businesses. They exist, as you know, in all sectors and in all parts of the country. I can mention, for example, the tourism industry. It is close to my heart as a Gotlander. It is an industry entirely supported by small businesses. At the same time, we know that we have significant challenges, particularly in terms of security, simplification and employment opportunities. We can look at the tourism industry as an industry. Ninety-eight per cent of restaurant businesses have fewer than 20 employees. And it is small businesses that are creating new jobs.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Sweden really needs more growing companies. Not least Gotland is part of Sweden where small business is exuberant. Right now we are having a rather positive development. Many small businesses have plans to grow and expand. Seven out of ten say they want to expand. Their main obstacle today is the supply of skills: that they do not find the right people to grow and hire. That's why we're doing a lot of training. Small companies in Sweden can become an integration engine, I would say, when it comes to taking advantage of everyone who has come to Sweden. But we are also making targeted efforts. We are working on a digitisation project to simplify not least for the restaurant industry and the tourism industry. We work with tax changes, so that everyone who is a sole entrepreneur and who hires their first employee can get a tax discount of 63 000 SEK in the first year, when you grow as a company. We've been working on shortening the payoffs. We work with security in the start-up phase for the entrepreneurs, so they can keep their SGI for 36 months. And we're working on funding.
i-81cb35a2763b765a-416	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is bursting in Swedish small businesses, not least in rural areas. I'd like to get a little deeper into that. How do we ensure that the efforts that we are now making together and that we are deciding on in this House really reach out throughout the country, so that this development can also be seen in the Swedish countryside?
i-81cb35a2763b765a-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think an important part is that the state has a special role in rural areas. This applies not least to Almi, which is located all over the country and which manages much of the lending when the banks are not really there and may not be able to manage all the way. During this parliamentary term, we have increased the possibility for Almis to lend to small and medium-sized enterprises. It's an important part. When it comes to Norrlandslänen, if I may change my perspective, we have now added new money to the Norrland Fund, so that you can work with venture capital and growing companies. These are two examples of how we can get more growing companies across the country and in rural areas.
