i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-1	Mr President, I would like to Without security of energy supply, our society and our economy remain. It's easy to forget a Friday in June when the sun is shining and it's been a heat record for almost two months, but that's not how it looks every day in Sweden. There are those days when it's dark when we go to work and it's dark when we go home. But even those days we expect the lights to be lit both at home and in operating rooms, that our houses are heated and that the industry gets the energy it needs for the wheels to spin in the Swedish economy. It is precisely people's expectation that security of supply always works out that the energy issue does not dominate Agenda's party leaders' debates right now. People expect that there is always enough electricity in the networks as they expect the electricity market to be designed in such a way that it benefits our competitiveness and growth. They expect politicians to do their utmost to reduce climate emissions in the energy sector as well as in society. It is this expectation that politics will be able to lay a strong foundation for the bottom plate in the Swedish economy and industry that has led to the energy agreement with the focus and objectives that we are partly considering today. It is precisely about competitiveness, security of supply and ecological sustainability showing the way forward. This has called for pragmatism from all parties that have been involved in the agreement, but a pragmatism that I believe has been expected and long awaited in the debate. Instead of barring bloody for or against a single force, there are now goals and long-term conditions in place that can last over time. With the headline target of zero net emissions by 2045, we have actually managed to agree on 100% renewable energy production by 2040. At the same time, we are also making a clear position that it is not a deadline for nuclear power. This means that politicians can no longer take the right to close profitable nuclear power plants prematurely. In addition, the tax on nuclear power and the property tax on hydro power are reduced in order to equalise the conditions of competition between the Power Act. Mr President, I would like to It is precisely this kind of pragmatism that is absolutely necessary on the road to technologically neutral rules of the field of energy. We are not hugging about a particular force, a particular technology or, for that matter, a particular company, where ideological duplicators do not make us embark on the same path as, for example, Germany, which closes and replaces zero-emission nuclear power stations with coal and gas. We are, of course, prioritising the conversion of the energy system, but we are doing so in a way that takes place under market conditions. I started by talking about expectations and people's expectations of politics. High expectations of politics are, of course, right and proper. At the same time, however, we also know that the greatest progress requires a competitive industry, and this requires the removal of barriers for companies that develop the energy technologies of the future so that they are able to quickly grow and export their products. If we are to be completely honest with ourselves, it is not in this House that the biggest climate clique is taken. For example, look at the company that invented the LED lamp, which completely revolutionized the technology for how we use energy. It was not invented in this Chamber. Or look at the catalyst. Nor is it a product of political decisions. It has reduced environmentally hazardous emissions from cars by 80 to 95 percent. Now the question is: will the next start-up revolutionising energy use so that we reach our common target of 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 be launched here in this House? When will the next step in energy storage? Which company will win the race now under way on the electric car, which will therefore fast-forward the entire electrification of the transport sector? For us, the question is: Will the start-ups start in Sweden? If they start in Sweden, will they be able to grow in Sweden and export their products from Sweden? A series of reforms is needed here if this is to be possible. There is a need for proper regulatory simplification for entrepreneurs, not least for those who make products and perform services in energy efficiency, energy storage and the sale of small-scale electricity production. The corporate taxes that the government has raised need to be reduced again, and there must be no doubt as to where Sweden stands on important free trade issues if environmental technology is to be exported to those countries that need it most. Let me also briefly conclude by mentioning some of the reservations expressed by the Moderates in the report. Two of the reservations concern biofuels, where unfortunately the rules of the game have been the opposite of long-term and marketable. Biofuel is crucial for us to be able to switch in the transport sector and is an important building block in heat and power production. Here the government must do more, not least to stop those who want to ban certain types of biofuels at EU level. If we are to switch the transport sector, we need all kinds of biofuels. We can't make that change overnight. One of our reservations concerns remote and cogeneration, where market conditions need to be improved. And one more of our reservations, which we have talked about in this House many times before, concerns the funding for research. We believe that it must be possible to research all of Sweden's major power teams, and that, of course, includes nuclear power. Whatever the government colour, nuclear power will be a significant part of the Swedish energy mix for the foreseeable future. Given this, Sweden should of course be at the forefront in terms of efficiency, operation and waste management. That is why, of course, we believe that research funding from the Energy Agency must also go to research on nuclear power. For time winning, I only ask for reservation 19.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-12	Mr President, I would like to This will be the last energy policy debate in this House for the term of office. I would like to start by thanking you for the debates that have taken place during this term of office and for the work that has taken place during the previous term of office, although we are far from being in agreement in all parts. There has been some progress in energy matters during this term of office. Some things are pleasing, to be admitted, mainly the sharp reduction in the property tax on hydropower and the removal of the penalty tax on nuclear power. This has created more long-term conditions for regulatory power in Sweden. Hopefully, we are also moving towards simplifications for small-scale hydropower, which is important also in the southern parts of Sweden. At the same time, the compromises contained in the energy agreement are destructive from our point of view. The willingness to reach an agreement has led to the integration of contradictions into the agreement, which jeopardises the overall objective of energy policy. It is still the case that, although representatives of other parties are talking in this House about an understanding of the difference between energy and effect, there is no evidence of any kind of understanding based on what is now happening. The power balance of a 10-year winter is already down on negative values. Seen to a normal winter, it's down to negative readings in a couple of years. The turning mass of our power system is becoming smaller as larger synchronous generators are phased out, which helps us to have an extremely sensitive power system in our synchronous area in the near future. However, it is in line with what has been a great deal of debate, where the melodies of energy policy have mainly been the quantity of aid subsidies rather than quality. Mr President, I would like to It is clear to the Swedish Democrats that we need planned power generation in the future as well. It is a sound balance between control and other planned power generation that allows the integration of relatively large amounts of weather-dependent power generation. This is also what has historically caused the Swedish power system to be characterised by an exceptionally high degree of security of supply and power quality, which has served our country very well. It is therefore important that the objectives of energy policy are aimed at maintaining and nurturing this over time. It is therefore regrettable that neither the government nor most of the Alliance feel nor express concern about the developments we are now seeing. The power balance report from Svenska Kraftnät contains an assessment of what one sees in the longer term. In the run-up to the winter that has now passed, it was written that the analysis shows that the closure of nuclear power leads to a large number of hours with very high electricity prices, as well as several hours with difficulties in making the balance of power at all. ..................................................... One should stop and reflect on this. A large number of hours with very high electricity prices – this is hardly what characterized the situation in Sweden or has given the Swedish industry a comparative competitive advantage to operate in Sweden against the markets with which they compete. But that is the situation that we are now moving towards at an accelerated pace. With regard to difficulties in making the balance of the effects go together, it is perhaps more technical. The concept of balance of effects can be undramatic. But if you don't get the power balance together at a given moment, it means in pure Swedish power outages, as Swedish power grids will disconnect electricity users to make the power balance go together. Therefore, Mr President, it is most irrational for the Swedish Democrats to set a target of 100% renewable. It is not linked to the basic pillars on which Swedish energy policy should rest. It does not have to lead to either increased security of supply or, for example, less greenhouse gas emissions. Rather, it is likely to lead to the opposite. The Swedish Democrats' proposal is instead a target for fossil-free electricity production. It also gives nuclear power a clearer and more given role in the future energy system. It is also in line with the environmental work in general, which has a focus on fossil freedom. In this report, we are also dealing with an objective of energy efficiency. This is a target that states that Sweden will have 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 compared to 2005, expressed in terms of energy input in relation to gross domestic product. From a resource and competition perspective, it is self-evident to use resources as efficiently as possible, as those at the forefront will have a competitive advantage. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of Sweden having a target based on energy intensity and giving impetus from the point of view of strengthening industrial competitiveness by using less energy per unit produced, which has so far been a success story for industry. It is also good that the goal is designed so that we can use more energy in the future depending on economic development, as it is a measure of our prosperity. There, the Swedish Democrats expect continued positive economic growth. What is bad about the goal, however, is that it focuses on energy input and does not use energy. What makes it problematic is the governance that it can lead to, which is based on how we conduct statistics on our energy supply. There is much to be said about this, but without going into too much detail about it, I can say that the objective which the Government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats want to introduce, means that they believe that the closure of nuclear power stations will make it more energy efficient. It would be the biggest effort for energy efficiency – to shut down nuclear power. Closing cogeneration plants would also be energy efficiency with the objective now set, as well as replacing district heat with heat pumps. It may not be exactly the intention, but it is justified by the objective that has now been set in that it focuses on energy input. As I said, we believe that an energy efficiency target is a good one, as is an energy intensity target. But then it should instead be based on the use of energy to minimise the effects that are undesirable, as the Swedish Democrats also suggest in the report. Finally, Mr President, the Swedish democrats also want to introduce a goal of security of supply that sets out what I was talking about in the first place. The problem with the energy policy in place is that it has no direction towards security of supply or that it will have an impact when the need is greatest. Apart from the fact that energy policy lacks an objective of security of supply, no single authority is responsible for the same. Instead, responsibility for security of supply is divided into a number of different roles and actors. This creates ambiguities and risks of inefficiency, which we regard as extremely weak energy policy in the future. In order to ensure that everyone has access to electricity during all hours of the year and that the power system is characterised by both high power quality and good operational security, the Swedish Democrats propose that Sweden set a measurable target for security of supply, which the future energy policy will strive to achieve in order to ensure that future generations will be able to enjoy the same good supply of electricity that we have enjoyed. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation 1 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all of our reservations, but for time to come, I am content to call for approval.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-31	Mr President, I would like to Disaster! Appearing electricity prices! Black in the nets! No, we don't actually have those headlines. We in Sweden rather have great opportunities to cope with renewable energy. We see that, thanks to the Energy Agreement, we now have a goal to go exactly that way. That goal also drove the Center Party in negotiations to have 100 percent renewable in 2040. At the same time, with political decisions, we should not shut down nuclear power, because it is phasing itself out on economic terms. We see that wind power is growing tremendously. The electrical certification system, which we raised by 18 terawatt hours, is soon fully subscribed. The wind power industry's announcement is that it will then manage on market terms. It is a fantastically welcome development. Now we are going to ensure that offshore wind power has the same opportunities as on land by abolishing connection charges. In this way we can get more production in southern Sweden that gives the opportunity to replace nuclear power. We also get a production that delivers more hours during the year. We also see that the solar electricity is growing. It is good that the government has introduced several of the proposals that the Center Party has also made. Removing the requirements for building permits and VAT registration and making a number of other simplifications is a good policy. It is also good that this week the Parliament has decided on new rules for hydroelectric power and environmental regulations that will allow us to environmentalise hydroelectric power while at the same time being able to extend it, not least in terms of its impact, and at the same time not over-implement the EU's water directives. This means that we can get both small-scale and large-scale hydropower that can contribute to the energy system and make that the day it does not blow and the sun does not shine still have plenty of power in the Swedish electricity system. We are still going to be a net supplier of electricity, and we can be in two ways. On the one hand, we will be a direct supplier via the cables to the rest of the world that we agree we will continue to expand. It creates security and security that we always have electricity in the grids. On the one hand, we shall be an electric exporter in such a way that we will process the electricity. We are going to make climate-smart steel, set up data centres and produce services that are energy-intensive, because we can do it with green electricity that we then export on. Biopower, which is one of the forgotten energy sources in Sweden, must be given more favourable conditions. It is stated in the Energy Agreement that district heating and cogeneration should also be well placed to act on the market. This is somewhat lacking today. For example, Uppsala does not build turbines for electricity, it only builds for district heating. This is a problem, because cogeneration supplies heat and electricity most during cold winter days, when we need it at its best. That is why it is also important that it has the right rules of play. It is also incredibly important that we can use the bioenergy so that it does not remain in the forest because of kilometre taxes that hamper development and that it does not become profitable to extract it. Forest research says that 5 to 10 percent of the biomass in the forest could be left there because of mileage taxes. Then I'll be worried. This threatens the green transition, not only for cogeneration but also for quite a few other parts that also need forest resources in order to develop. This applies not least to liquid biofuels, which we are going to get into our cars for a transitional period until we switch to more electricity. The national electrification strategy, which we need to change the road transport sector, still shines with its absence. Tomorrow's problems are not so much about energy – that we can produce enough electricity throughout the year. We are doing so in Sweden and we will continue to do so. Those conditions are amazing. Tomorrow's problems are more about power – that every second of the year we have electricity in the grids. Then it is not a question of a single power outage – yesterday there was a power outage at home in Gothenburg, where I live, but it was a single problem – but that we should be able to produce enough during all the hours of the year. A new policy is also needed. That will require tomorrow's solutions to tomorrow's problems. There I miss politics from the government. We have an electricity tax that is flat and fixed, which means that the price of electricity cannot vary enough, because the share of the electricity price in the total cost is quite small. This inhibits business models. Even if the price of electricity is zero, you still have to pay the same amount of tax. That's completely unreasonable. The electricity tax is good for bringing money to the state, of course, but it needs to vary with the electricity price, so that you get a business model that works and so that you get started what is usually called user flexibility: I as a private person should not have to go up and put on the dishwasher at kl. 23, without making sure that it goes on automatically, and my electric car will be charged at the time. 01-04 instead of kl. 17 - 21. We can see that there are also problems with electricity tax when it comes to battery storage. You can estimate both to charge the battery and to discharge it. That's completely unreasonable. The whole electricity law would have to be reworked, because it is focused on large production plants that supply continuously. That is not tomorrow's system. Consumers need to be given the opportunity to receive compensation when they participate and use their cargo. They may help and produce energy through their battery. We must also ensure that they can receive compensation when they choose not to participate. The goal of security of supply is quite irrelevant, because as a consumer with a battery in the basement, I do not need 99.9 percent security of supply, which SSAB needs. Maybe I just need 90% security of supply because I can handle a power outage for three hours. But then I'll have to get compensation for it. We have a government that has done a lot of good things. But we also have a government that sometimes stands down. When the government appoints investigations, the Center Party already has offensive proposals. When the government introduces a solar tax to the Center Party green deduction, which means that instead of lengthy grant systems – you can wait up to two years for their solar money, and it is not certain that they will at all – you will get the deduction directly on the bill, just like with ROT and RUT. We should not get caught up in the electricity sector, because the energy system is much larger than that. I would like to highlight the role of biogas. Biogas is the perfect example of a circular economy, where waste becomes an opportunity. Then we must also have instruments that work for the circular economy. It is not obvious, then, that every single part is market economy profitable, because the social benefits come from the whole. Swedish biogas is under threat. Danish gas entering Sweden is twice subsidised, which means that it competes with Swedish biogas. When the government says the situation is urgent, it means that it will take a year to set up an investigation. For me, this is totally unacceptable. Now there's an investigation. Now, when it's election year, there's also money coming. For me, the role of biogas is much more important and longer-term than just acting as a whale. Our commitment – mine and the Center Party – is genuine. We have a circular premium that has been around for a long time. We know that the best thing would have been that we took advantage of both the Swedish gas and the Danish gas, because Denmark exports both environmental benefits and tax money to us. But then we need to expand the market. Then it must be easier to buy biogas vehicles. There needs to be an opportunity to have environmental car parks, to make exceptions from congestion taxes and to ensure that biogas cars remain in Sweden. Today many biogas cars are exported after the first owner to Germany and the Netherlands, among others. Of course it's not good enough. You have to have rules that keep the biogas cars. There's the government down. Finally, the balance on the energy and climate side this parliamentary term is the two major agreements that we have made. I myself have been involved in negotiating both. Both the Environmental Objectives Committee, where we set climate targets, and the Energy Agreement, which several in this Chamber have been involved in negotiating, are fantastic. We now have 75 percent agreement in the Swedish Parliament on large parts of energy policy. But this will of course need to be developed. The big question, which has become hanging in the air but to which I would like answers in this debate, is: Will the Social Democrats and the Green Party take the same creative responsibility in opposition after the elections as they have done in a government position? That's where it's really being tested. Then you cannot stand as Minister of Energy and take the credit, but you must be more creative in opposition and take responsibility for Sweden without in the same way standing in the spotlight. I would like an answer to that question.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-56	Mr President, I would like to Colleagues and listeners! Now we are going to debate the NU22, which is about the orientation of energy policy. Ever since the beginning of the 20th century, when electrical energy was used for various purposes in Sweden, we have been creative and inventive in our country when it comes to finding different ways of producing electricity. We, as a small country that has expanded large parts of our Norrland rivers into electricity production to meet, above all, the industry's need for electricity, must realise that if we had not done so, we would not have had the amazing development that we actually had for the prosperity of our country. I have been told by my father, who was born in 1923, how amazing it was when the electricity was drawn into the village – to give away the kerosene lanterns, to be able to cook without first making a fire in the stove whether it was summer or winter and to store food in a freezer, when you eventually got the money to buy one, of course. You could cut wood with an electric wood cover. What endless reliefs there were in everyday life! And can you imagine – to draw electricity into small villages far up in the northern forests considered the Swedish state to be its task. Then we have not talked about the importance of forest and ore for our prosperity. But not being able to think again on energy issues would in some way be not giving back for all the sacrifices that have been made for us who have learned of the successes that electrical energy in particular has brought to us. We expanded nuclear power as energy demand grew in society, but as technology progressed in other ways of producing electricity, more and more countries have asked themselves the question: why should we keep nuclear power? It is both more expensive and significantly more dangerous than others, renewable production modes and also leaves behind waste that is dangerous for thousands of years. The question of storage is not solved either. In our elongated country, we have an enormous opportunity to expand the renewable with everything from sun and wind to by-products from agriculture and forestry. One thing that could contribute significantly more is, for example, offshore wind power, which was also highlighted by the Center Party – I am pleased about that. It is regrettable, in my opinion, that the defence cannot see the benefits of offshore wind instead of, for example, nuclear power. That is the bottom line: if we can expand renewables many times, we can phase out nuclear power more quickly. I'm just thinking about which of these facilities a possible enemy would see as most interesting to take out. That the defense could not have an exercise in Hanöbukten, for example, if there were windsworts there, I see as an unfortunate conclusion that stops Blekinge Offshore. The Government highlights in the bill the importance of combining the three pillars of energy policy: security of supply, ecological sustainability and competitiveness. Let me stay for a moment at competitiveness. The NU23 report, which no one was interested in debating but which will soon be decided on in this House, is about the electricity market. There we have a reservation which has a major impact on competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to I understand that I cannot lift anything in that report, but as far as competitiveness is concerned, I would like to remind Parliament that electricity networks have a much greater impact on competitiveness than we can imagine. Private electricity grid companies are currently allowed to set very high charges. In addition, fees vary greatly across the country, and it can distinguish thousands of dollars per year in fees depending on where you live. I and the Left Party believe that it is unreasonable to have such large differences in network charges that currently exist between cities and countries, between different regions and between different companies. Raising electricity grid charges not only hit households hard, but also hit industry and its competitiveness in the long run, as well as jobs. If the electricity grids were to be owned by society or the regulation of how high usury prices electricity grid companies could charge would be better, the electricity-intensive industry would be the winner, although it might contribute something to the obligation of the electricity certification system, which it does not do today. Mr President, I would like to In this respect, it is excellent that I am in favour of Amendment No 10 to the report. We are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time-winning, I am only in favour of it. The government returns many times to the energy agreement, which has been mentioned here and which was concluded between the government parties and the Centre Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, in the text dealing with the report. This is understandable. It is the pillar, and there is much that is good. I and the Left Party agree with many points raised by the settlement; these are important objectives and ambitions. But, of course, I think it is unfortunate that the Left Party is the only party that clearly takes a stand and says that nuclear power is not a future electricity generation law that belongs in the Swedish electricity market, especially when we take up 100% renewable energy by 2040. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President, all my colleagues, whether or not you agree with me in a political context, the parliamentary staff of the committee and here in the House and all the others who make our mission possible and fruitful for a fine cooperation and wish everyone a really nice summer!
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-72	Mr President, I would like to Today's energy debate is the last of this parliamentary term. It has been an eventful mandate for energy issues. At global level, we have seen a revolution in renewable energy. Prices have fallen and technology has improved. Solar panels have spread like wildfire in sunny countries. Unfortunately, in some places there has also been a renaissance of fossil energy sources. We have seen that Australia is opening coal mines just near the Great Barrier Reef, which is dying. We also experienced the Paris climate agreement and an offensive American policy led by President Obama. Now the same policy is being dismantled by the new President. Climate change must no longer be mentioned in official American documents. Suddenly China and India appear as environmentalists in relation to the American administration. The world is upside down. In Europe, we have continued to work on the Energy Union. With its new energy policy, Germany has seen how its own climate targets have fallen and coal power persisted, with or without Vattenfall's sale of the lignite mines. We have seen an almost pan-European debate to stop the new Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. Following pressure from Parliament and the EU Board, the government has made important efforts in the EU to try to stop the leadership. Mr President, I would like to What has happened in Sweden this parliamentary term? The government started by increasing the impact tax – on the proposal of the Green Party, I guess. After all, the Green Party went to elections to close nuclear reactors according to the German model with political decisions. The increase in the impact tax had exactly the effect that the Green Party had hoped for. Four reactors had to close prematurely – reactors that we cannot reopen, no matter how much that electricity would be needed in Poland or Lithuania or to displace fossil production in our Nordic-Baltic electricity market. There, part of the climate subsidy disappeared. When the government did not react, a crisis arose in the energy industry. Power companies warned that more reactors soon needed to be shut down. Investments in renovation did not pay off. Meanwhile, we in the Energy Commission had started our work, with the aim of a long-term decision. As a result of the nuclear crisis, our work was short-lived and almost critical in spring 2016. The EAG needed to be dealt with urgently. The government had to deal with a crisis that it itself had created. The negotiations ended in a bad compromise, which the Liberals left out. With one hand we are facilitating the nuclear and hydro power we need by reducing taxes. But with the other, we are subsidising electricity production which some parties want for political reasons. Unfortunately, the Energy Agreement formulates a target that is completely irrelevant: the target of 100% renewable electricity generation. We believe that this is placard policy. Renewable energy sources are amazing. They give us environmentally friendly electricity at good prices. But they will be built when needed and when someone wants to pay for it, not when some political parties have entered it in their election manifesto and decide it. When funds become targets, energy policy becomes a pamphlet, and then we lose focus on Sweden's real challenges. One of these challenges is security of supply. Swedish power grids recently presented a report showing worrying figures. Swedish security of supply risks becoming worse than in the 70s if no measures are taken. The electricity grid is so fragile for the summer that it would certainly not be possible for any of the largest reactors to be unplannedly disconnected. Therefore, the Swedish power grid now proposes the drastic measure to reduce the production of the large reactors. This shows that we have major challenges here and now. The trouble will soon become more serious as more nuclear reactors will shut down. The robustness of the electricity grid then deteriorates even more. This is a damaging and short-term energy policy that will lead to unnecessary socio-economic costs. Another challenge is the climate. One of our energy policy objectives is sustainability. Swedish electricity exports displace large amounts of fossil electricity production in our neighbouring countries. We know that with electricity exports we are doing great climate benefit. Each kilowatt hour exported reduces the use of fossil fuels. The government's policy has led us to destroy that possibility. In the next few years, Sweden will become even more dependent on importing electricity. These are, in particular, imports of electricity from fossil sources such as coal and gas. After the energy negotiations on Swedish electricity exports, the Minister for Energy will now be forced to go to elections with a new energy situation, namely that Sweden is at risk of becoming more dependent on imports. There's hardly a feather in the hat. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Energy Agreement also lacks a Nordic and European perspective. We should have coordinated our work much more with the Nordic and Baltic countries, which are part of our electricity market. The fact that more European countries are creating their own energy policy without any coordination with neighbouring countries is totally devoid of reality. Some steps have been taken in recent years, including through the report written for the Nordic Council by the Finn Ollila Jorma. But that's not enough. I think we need to invest much more in this piece, and we energy policies need to have as many European contacts as we have cables connecting our electricity systems. Mr President, I would like to There is no shortage of energy policy challenges for a new government in the autumn – that is certain. Finally, I would like to call for the approval of reservation 2.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-90	Mr President, I would like to The other day we had a debate on hydropower and water policy. Today it is energy policy itself. Just the other day it occurred to me that it was before the 2014 election campaign that I was brought to my attention the problems that many of the owners of small hydropower had encountered and the arbitraryness that they felt had been exposed to in the assessment of different environmental requirements and associated costs. What I did not know then was that I would then be responsible for the Christian Democrats' energy policy and actually work with the entire energy sector. It has been very exciting and rewarding both to sit in the Energy Commission and to negotiate the energy agreement, which today celebrates two years. The implementation group has worked to realise the intentions expressed by the agreement, and so we Christian Democrats naturally support this proposal. However, as with all the negotiations, we know that we as an individual party do not get everything that we think is important. The Christian Democrats basically believe that there needs to be a review of energy policy subsidies. The basic attitude is that subsidies, at least in the long term, should be directed towards the introduction of new technologies and not forever go to support already developed technologies. The fact that the electricity generation side is redirecting to the sectors with the largest emissions is of course extremely important, and it is therefore gratifying to see all these roadmaps for a fossil-free Sweden that was launched from different industries the other week. What is particularly gratifying about the road maps is that the industries themselves have helped to develop them, which ensures greater anchoring and implementation of them in a completely different way than if we politicians had only decided for them. The possibility of influencing people's behaviour in a climate-friendly way through information and advice is an issue that should generally be given greater attention. It starts with you and me. It starts with us, each based on the situation and conditions we have to be able to buy environmentally friendly products and be able to think environmentally in our own process, for example when we handle waste at home, at our jobs or where we are now. It is clear that small municipalities have very little opportunity to have all the expertise. Therefore, we think that this should perhaps be a question for the Energy Agency, which could be used for advice, for example, in such a way that it is possible to call in and ask questions. One thing that I think should have received more attention is the launched lighting challenge. I listened to the P1 this morning, and to my great pleasure this initiative was actually raised. What you can say is that there are still very few people who have joined this challenge. That is why I would like to address Minister Baylan and say that the lighting challenge is good, but I do not understand why more work has not been done to try to get more organisations and companies involved. We hear about Gröna Lund, who is replacing their lamps with more energy-friendly alternatives and so on, but it must be possible to help many more with such initiatives. It's energy efficiency as good as anyone. Just seeing it as something that large companies and organisations should do is a completely different solution from what I believe as a Christian Democrat – because I think we all have our own responsibility exactly where we are. Mr President, I would like to A central part of the agreement is the goal of the electricity system being fully renewable in 2040. That is why we think it is natural that much of the energy research that exists should focus on developing renewable electricity production. At the same time, it is also important that research does not become so one-sided that it does not take advantage of the technology and skills that exist today and that also needs further training and new knowledge. As long as we have the nuclear reactors we have, we must also have competent personnel, and we must be able to develop the energy we have in such a way that we have competent, conscious research also on nuclear technology. And although nuclear power should not be judged to have any future within the framework of the principles that we have set out, I believe that we must not, however, remain without the provision of skills to get staff who continue to work in the industry. Another important thing is that, regardless of the type of energy, secure and expanded networks are required. We have heard examples from many different sources where there is a lack of expansion in order for the industry to develop. A very clear and well-promoted example is SSAB in Oxelösund. They have talked about their needs in many different contexts, but licensing and contact with Swedish power networks seem very slow. It is clear that if we are to contribute through energy policy to a sustainable industry – whether it is steel or something else – it is also true that the expansion of the networks works. Mr President, I would like to Finally, like my colleague from the Center Party, I would like to strike a blow for biogas. I think we could develop the biogas area much more. The initiative that has been around biogas is now being phased out, and we need to take advantage of the experience that has been put into that project. We must also ensure that there is an organic waste that can be digested and actually make biogas out of. There are many good examples. We have, for example, Biogas Dalsland, which is in my constituency, where it has really taken advantage of the waste from farmers and made biogas out of what is also used in the immediate area. I think this is a brilliant example of how local production can be used all the way. Rickard talked about the circular economy and a circular society; that is exactly what it is about. I would like, as my colleagues have done before, to thank you for this term of office with energy policy and many times interesting discussions. You always learn. That's the point as politicians: We never get full mastery but constantly learn and take in both each other and others that we meet.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-105	Mr President, I would like to As I'm sure you can hear, I'm from Dalarna. It's a great place to live and live. Dalarna is Sweden's third largest export county and the largest tourist county outside Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Many may not think about it. In Dalarna there is a lot of industrial production, including steel mills, sawmills, paper mills and a very interesting development in server halls. This is how it goes in many parts of the country, and everyone is completely dependent on a long-term, stable energy policy. I've worked in the industry myself for 25 years. I promise: It feels all over your body when you start the arc furnace in the steelworks in Avesta. It can be likened to being in the middle of a thunderstorm. To melt 100 tons of steel takes about 45 minutes; of course it takes a lot of energy. With this background, it is absolutely amazing that we have now put an end to 30 years of political disagreement on energy policy through an energy agreement that 75 per cent of the members of the Swedish Parliament are behind. When Prime Minister Stefan Löfven invited in the 2014 Government Declaration to cross-block talks in an Energy Commission, it was a clear signal to everyone: We need to resolve energy issues together. To those of you who have negotiated this historic energy agreement, I would like to say: well done! This is good for the country. Cooperation is the key, not just between the parties here in the Swedish Parliament. It is also about cooperation between all actors in the energy market. Mr President, I would like to There are 15 motion requests to the bill. From general exercise time there are 76 requests for exercise and now 36 reservations. I note that many exercises have been dealt with several times in the past. First of all, I would like to support the motion and reject all the motions. The Energy Agreement is a common policy roadmap for a controlled transition to a fully renewable electricity system with new energy policy objectives. A robust and reliable energy system is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society, and I am proud that Sweden is in many ways a pioneer country in the field of energy policy. I am convinced that the government is acting as forcefully as it is only possible to have an impact on Swedish energy priorities in Europe. I can also note that the government has a critical attitude towards the Nord Stream 2 project. In order to achieve the objectives of the climate policy framework and the Energy Agreement, the electricity certification system has been extended and the ambition level increased. The high ambitions in the field of renewable energy production ensure long-term rules that allow renewable fuel production to be expanded. Several exercises are about renewable electricity production from water, wind and sun. Hydropower accounts for 45% of electricity generation and is extremely important. Swedish Wind Energy estimates that wind power production will increase by 60 per cent over the next four years. The energy agreement and the increased level of ambition as well as the extension of the electricity certification system are the main explanations for the increased rate of expansion. The Government intends to submit a proposal on offshore wind power during its term of office. Solar energy production is also increasing sharply; one could say that there is a PV revolution in our country. The government supports the development of solar electricity in several ways: through investment aid, tax reduction and an information platform for solar electricity. A proposal for a strategy to increase the use of solar electricity will be further developed in 2018. Investigations look at how to make it easier for smaller energy operators and households. These include tax reductions, certificates of electricity and energy stocks. There are a number of exercises related to energy efficiency and the research area. There are a number of activities going on, such as energy efficiency support for companies. Sweden will be the world's best at energy efficiency through sector strategies, and the final negotiations on changes to the EU Energy Efficiency Directive are currently under way. A study looks at simplifications and adaptations of regulations and tax legislation to facilitate new production and services within, among other things, the energy efficiency system. It should also look at which economic and other instruments – such as white certificates – can be used to increase efficiency in terms of energy and impact. In addition, an inquiry report on energy saving loans has been sent out for consultation. Research and development are, of course, important in order to find solutions to the challenges that exist in the field of energy policy. The focus will be on research and development of renewable energy production. At the same time, there are no obstacles to the use of funds from other sources of funding for nuclear research and development. An overall energy policy objective is about security of supply. It is about the power system being able to guarantee a secure electricity supply and sufficient power at any given moment in both the short and long term. It is also a question of being able to transmit electricity both within and between countries. Further expansion of the electricity grid and transmission capacity within Sweden and to other countries are of great importance in ensuring the supply of electricity. It is very positive that Sweden has taken measures to promote the production of biogas. Support for Swedish biogas production is increased by 270 million during this year. The Swedish Energy Agency has also announced funds for the development of liquid biogas and established an innovation cluster. A study on how to make the best use of biogas as a resource and how to give it competitive conditions in both the short and long term has been added. The outcome of the investigation can act as a biogas strategy, as several exercises demand. A competitive district heating sector is a prerequisite for us to have future electricity and heat supply. A favourable development in which the cogeneration sector provides system benefits for other energy systems is important. It will be very interesting to follow Gotland's roadmap for a sustainable energy system, where new technologies and new business models and regulations will be tested. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we must now all look after the energy agreement. We must be prepared to act on how reality changes; I am thinking, for example, of the rapid development of technology. In fact, I see great similarities with the Pensions Group, which is somehow caring for the pension system. When the pension system was introduced, no one could imagine that life expectancy would increase as quickly as it does in Sweden. This is, of course, absolutely fantastic. But then the old truths are on their way, and then politics is required to act and make the necessary decisions. Let us now look after the energy agreement so that we can deliver a long-term, stable energy policy for many years to come.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-136	Mr President, I would like to Patrik Engström himself highlighted the importance of industry for his county of Dalarna in his speech. The manufacturing industry is increasingly characterised by automation and depends on the availability of electricity. The steel industry and all energy intensive industry in Sweden are incredibly dependent on the fact that there is good supply of electricity during all hours of the year. Even future industrial establishments, such as server halls that could become extensive in Sweden, but also large parts of our well-being, such as our hospitals, are very dependent on the availability of electricity. In his speech, Patrik also highlighted the importance of security of supply for industry. But what is problematic is that there is no objective for security of supply, which is one of the pillars. You've turned yourself down and you don't want a goal. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask why the Social Democrats think it is bad to have a goal for security of supply.
i-XwUTcgvznzjtU8cWK8RFW9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! If we are to have a target for security of supply of electricity, are we not going back to a more regulated electricity market? Is this what Mattias Bäckström Johansson is asking for? If so, is it really good? If we have an electricity market that is regulated based on supply and demand, it feels like we have built in many mechanisms that can be very good for the electricity market. I would like to know whether what Mattias Bäckström is asking is for us to regulate the electricity market further.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-142	Mr President, I would like to The electricity certification system introduced at the turn of the millennium already determines what is to be built on a political basis. Under this government, contributions to investments in solar power have also increased. As such, the structure is therefore highly politically regulated. The problem is that everyone's responsibility is nobody's responsibility. It has worked so far because for a long time there has been a model for dealing with this industrially. The Swedish industry has had a comparative competitive advantage based on the fact that we have had nuclear power as a planned power generation and a large proportion of hydro power as a regulator that has also enabled the integration of weather-dependent electric power. But now the planned power production is increasingly disappearing. Also Swedish power networks that government expert department flag that this will not last. There will be a large number of hours when you do not fix the power balance. It will be almost half a month each year in southern Sweden as there is no access to electricity. How can industry compete in a global market under such conditions? After all, the competitive advantage that has been enjoyed is now disappearing. That's why it's hard to understand why you don't want to look at this. It is not only about electricity production, but also about distribution, that it should work with the electricity grids. There is no authority that has the overall responsibility for this. There is no target for security of supply. Since no one is responsible for it, there is enough reason to believe that this will not work out in the long term. I still think Patrik owes the answer to the question why you think it is so bad to have such a goal and if you think that this will solve itself. In that case, it would be interesting to get an answer to the question: Do you think that Swedish power grids are wrong? What is the wrong Swedish power grid does in its assessment if there is no reason to worry about security of supply?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-147	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, no reason to doubt the Swedish power network's investigation. But it is a good thing that Swedish power networks flag up the challenges that we see after all. Just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson says, we face major challenges because the energy system is being reformed and rebuilt. We move from large suppliers to a more differentiated production chain, and of course this leads to challenges. It's good that Swedish power grids and other flags because here it can be trouble, because then we politicians and others have the opportunity to act – right? Again: Should we not have a flexible electricity market based on supply and demand? I think it's basically very good. And if we were to introduce a delivery security target, as Mattias Bäckström Johansson is asking, where is the flexibility? Then we would go back to something we've had before, and I think that would be bad.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-150	Mr President, I would like to I forgot my motion when I was in the speaker's seat earlier, so I would like to ask for the approval of reservations 9 and 26. Over to the line: The houses that were built around the time my grandmother was born, which is quite a lot of houses in Sweden, may have been heated with first wood, then coal, oil, direct-acting electricity and then maybe over to district heating and finally back to electricity or even to biofuel in the form of pellets or something else. It shows that during the lifetime of a house there are a lot of changes going on. Therefore, it is important to have a good climate scale and not just focus on how the energy used by the house is produced. The Energy Agreement states: A competitive district heating sector and reduced use of electricity in heating are prerequisites for managing the renewable electricity and heat supply cold winter days. The Energy Commission's final report, negotiated by the Social Democrats and the Center Party with several other parties, states that the system limit on the energy performance of buildings, Boverket's building regulations and the definition of near-zero energy buildings should focus on used energy instead of supplied or purchased energy. In the Environmental Objectives Committee, whose final report we were also negotiating and which the Social Democrats also signed up to, it says that the building rules should be neutral for the choice between electricity and district heating by focusing on used energy rather than purchased energy. So, Patrik Engström, why hasn't the government addressed this problem?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard, for the question! I have not been involved in the negotiations, so of course I find it difficult to reproduce how the negotiations have been conducted. The government is in the hall and may possibly answer the question. But I cannot explain why it looks as it does today. This is the last energy debate in this House this parliamentary term, and neither I nor Mr Rickard know what is happening and whether we will remain in this House after the elections. I note that we have reached the goal of an energy agreement which I personally am very happy and proud of. The fact that we are now debating a detail in a wider context shows that we agree on the major issues, and I think that is very positive. Rickard wondered in his speech about the Social Democrats and the Green Party stands up for the energy agreement in the long term too. I can tell Rickard that we have no intention of losing the election. We will continue to rule, so from that perspective, Rickard can be calm. Long-term agreements that we have reached together will, of course, be nurtured.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-161	Mr President, I would like to Now it is Patrik Engström and no one else who represents the Social Democrats, and it was Patrik Engström who I asked why they have not acted. Clearly, there is no answer to this. If Patrik Engström and the Social Democrats think that Boverket's building regulations are a detail in this context, I think they have a lot to learn from the energy debate and about what the cogeneration industry wants, because this is no detail. It is reality, and it is a genuine problem. Given how it works on a cold winter day, it is precisely the heating of buildings that is one of the major problems. But you have missed what is the problem of the future and stare blindly at what is today, and that is not a detail. That is a crucial issue. No, Patrik Engström, you didn't negotiate. But I presented the outcome of the negotiations, precisely what we agreed on. Therefore, you are guilty of the answer to the question: Why does the government not act and change Boverket's building regulations? It is the Social Democrats who sit in the government, and it is the Social Democrats who have the government. Why don't you do something? This is not a detail; it is one of the most important issues for the entire power and district heating industry.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-165	Mr President, I would like to I note that I cannot answer that question. I recall that Rickard Nordin's party has a motion in the report on wood stoves and such – a different expression is used in the directive. It's about the performance of wood stoves. I understand that the Center Party is pushing for the replacement of old wood stoves from a climate perspective. However, I am not sure that this is the right way to go about heating buildings. But in the long term, as wood stoves are replaced, they must of course keep the standard required by new findings. Today, however, demanding that older wood stoves be replaced is a remarkable attitude.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-168	Mr President, I would like to It has been a journey up to the proposal on the direction of energy policy we are now debating and later have to decide on. Seven years ago, in 2011, the Green Party presented the first proposal for 100 per cent renewable energy in the form of a parliamentary motion. We calculated the potential for wind power, solar energy and energy efficiency together with existing hydro and bioenergy and put forward a concrete proposal to Parliament for a fully renewable electricity and heating system by 2030. The government at the time replied that it was not possible and at the same time dismissed the proposal that the Swedish Energy Agency should investigate a fully renewable energy system. Finally, the Swedish Energy Agency chose to set up a 100% renewable energy study itself, and the ball was rolling. When the new government was formed in 2014 by the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the goal was presented that Sweden would have 100 percent renewable energy in the long term. The reactions from the outside world were clear. Sweden rose in international ranking of countries' attractiveness for investments in renewable energy, with reference to the new government's policy objectives. The work started in the Energy Commission with the Swedish Parliament's parties, which in June 2016 resulted in five parties, the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environment Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, agreeing on a common policy for a controlled transition to a fully renewable energy system. The two targets are 100% renewable electricity production by 2040 and 50% more efficient energy use by 2030. The agreement is important in order to give the industry the long-term rules of play it has long asked for. Sweden's nuclear power was built in the 70s and 80s and is getting old. It has been decided that four out of ten reactors will be shut down during this term of office. The cut age of the four that closes is 43 years. Nuclear power owners are now talking about a technical lifetime of 60 years, which would give operation to around 2040. However, much suggests that they will be closed earlier for economic and technical reasons. Whether there will be closure in 2030 or in 2040, the question is what will replace nuclear electricity. Nuclear power has three problems: uranium mining to obtain fuel, safety risks, Chernobyl and Fukushima to deter, and the need for disposal of waste, which must be kept separate from humans for over a hundred thousand years. Building nuclear power is also expensive. With renewable energy we get a safer, cheaper and more sustainable electricity system in the long term. The development of renewable energy is a constant source of good news. Globally, investments in renewable electricity are twice as large as investments in traditional power generation. In the United States, more people now work in the PV industry than in coal, oil and gas combined. History shows that set energy and climate targets are usually reached more easily than you thought when setting the targets. We remember when the then energy minister Maud Olofsson negotiated Sweden's commitment in the EU-wide renewables target for 2020 from 50 to 49 percent. The goal was called ambitious but not impossible. Today, two years before the target is to be achieved, we are already well over. The development of environmental technology is faster than previously estimated. It is an important experience for us politicians to take with us when planning for the future. In Sweden, wind power expansion sets a record, largely thanks to the extension of the electricity certification system that the five parties agreed on and decided on in the Riksdag a year ago. Another inspiring innovation is that the energy companies in Sweden are competing to build the largest PV park. Last week, Göteborg Energi announced the construction of a five-megawatt-hour solar photovoltaic park, and Ecot reported on this. Just a few days later, the news came that the Karlskrona Business Centres will build a six-megawatt-hour PV park, which will thus become Sweden's largest. It is clear that we are in the midst of an energy revolution. Today, both economic arguments and environmental arguments speak for renewable energy. Politics plays an important role in the transition. Five parties have now agreed on the target of 100% renewable electricity production by 2040. The agreement states that it is an objective. It is not a deadline that prohibits nuclear power, nor does it mean the closure of nuclear power with political decisions. In order for us to reach the target of 100% renewable electricity, renewable energy will replace nuclear power and fossil electricity generation. However, this does not go through the parliament or government deciding which reactor to close when. When Barsebäck's two reactors were closed in 1999 and 2005, the so-called decommissioning law was used, which involves just such a political decision with a so-called stop date. The consequence of closing nuclear power with political decisions is that large amounts of damages should be paid from the Treasury; it is expensive. Until 2017, billions were paid from the Treasury in compensation to the owners of Barsebäck. For the Green Party, this is not a wise strategy, and we have therefore not advocated the introduction of a new decommissioning law. It is not the taxpayers who should pay. Let me also correct the Liberal Maria Weimer who said that the Green Party went to elections to close nuclear power with political decisions. No, our election manifesto states that several reactors will be shut down during the term of office and that the target should be 100% renewable electricity generation. This is exactly what is happening now. The way to 100% renewable electricity generation is through nuclear energy paying more for its socio-economic costs and investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency. The calculations from the Swedish Energy Agency, which are reported in the bill, show that the share of renewable electricity is estimated to be between 76 and 83 per cent in 2040, calculated based on today's instruments. So there is still a gap of about 20% in order for us to reach the target of 2040. All parties that support the target of 100% renewable electricity generation have to respond to how they want the target to be achieved. Several parts are presented in the Energy Agreement. I mentioned the extension of the electricity certification system, which provides clarity for continued investments in renewable electricity production. Furthermore, Parliament has decided this week on modern environmental conditions for hydroelectric power and increased liability for nuclear power from SEK 3 billion to SEK 12 billion. Left for parties to agree before the election is the abolition of the offshore wind connection fee. Of course, there are challenges in reaching a 100 percent renewable electricity system, and focus needs to be on the best way to reach the goal. According to the Green Party, it is important to plan the transition early to make it as smart and cost-effective as possible. Waiting until the needs become acute is probably more expensive than having margins. Two nuclear reactors have been shut down during their term of office, and two more will close before 2020 following a decision by the nuclear owners. The failure of these four reactors is offset by the fact that a renewable energy buffer has been built up in the past. Sweden should continue to have a surplus of renewable electricity in order to be prepared when the remaining reactors close. Perhaps the biggest challenge in the energy transition to more weather-dependent renewable electricity such as solar and wind power is the so-called power issue. There are various technical possibilities to solve the impact challenge. This could involve energy storage, demand response or increased interconnection with electricity cables with neighbouring countries. The policy's task is to ensure that the new solutions can emerge when the needs for impact measures arise. It goes without saying that the conversion to 100% renewable electricity will cost. But the natural consequence is what the cost of the alternative is. The investment needs are high as almost 100 terawatt hours of annual production will be closed down until the mid-2040s due to plant life. There are different routes, but everything points to the fact that the renewable option is the cheapest. Today, there are only two countries in our vicinity that are building new nuclear power – France and Finland – and both projects are deterring significant delays and costs. In the UK, the state has promised a guaranteed price of SEK 1 per kilowatt hour for those who want to build new nuclear power, but so far it is unclear whether anyone will accept this offer. The experience in the world around us shows that nuclear power costs SEK 1 per kilowatt hour. I have often said in previous debates that we are building wind power for half of that cost, but I now need to update my figures. The Norwegian Energy Agency's statement yesterday was that they expect to build land-based wind power for 26 øre per kilowatt-hour in 2020. This means that you get four times as much electricity for the money if you invest in renewables instead of new nuclear power. It is good for Sweden and the world that we are now adopting a target of 100% renewable electricity generation. Mr President, I would like to This is my last debate as a Member of Parliament, and I would like to thank all the representatives of the parties with whom I have had many and long meetings and discussions. Thank you for all your commitment! Finally, I would like to support the proposal.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-198	Mr President, I would like to It would be a shame not to take the chance to have one last debate with my name. I was going to start by saying that I buy electricity at home, as a consumer. I'm buying hydroelectric power today. But it is not hydroelectric power that comes out of my sockets in Gothenburg, but it is Gothenburg Energi's electricity, which is produced across the highway, that comes to me. When it comes to guarantees of origin, the Swedish Energy Agency says that an electricity supplier who wants to sell, for example, electricity from wind power or hydro power can do this in two different ways, either by cancelling guarantees of origin from its own wind turbines or hydroelectric power plants or by purchasing guarantees of origin from such a producer and canceling them, i.e. removing them, when the supplier sells the electricity to the final customer. Then my question to Lise Nordin is: Is it reasonable for a producer selling electricity to market this to customers – entrepreneurs and consumers – who buy electricity produced in such a way and cancelled with certificates?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-202	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin succeeds in the artefact of raising an issue that is not part of the very comprehensive report that we have to debate. But, of course, he gets to bring in all kinds of energy issues that can engage, and this is of course one of them. Guarantees of origin and how they can be used in marketing is an issue that, as far as I know, has not been dealt with politically in Parliament during this or previous terms of office, but I have, of course, seen that there is a debate. As the Green Party's energy policy spokesperson, I have said that it is reasonable for companies that produce their own electricity or buy a certain type of renewable electricity to be able to use the rights' guarantees of origin as part of their marketing and to communicate that it is this electricity they use in their production.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-204	Mr President, I would like to This is an energy debate. Origin marking and guarantee of origin are an incredibly important part of our energy sector. It's good that Lise Nordin thinks exactly the same thing as the Center Party. But can Lise Nordin and the Green Party answer why the government's own authorities, in this case the Swedish Consumer Agency, are acting just the opposite? After all, it is you who govern your authorities, businesses and other things, and this system is not considered to work. What has been done to tell the Swedish Consumer Agency or to change the legislation so that the Swedish Consumer Agency does not act in this way?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-206	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin asked me what the government has done to control its government. I would like to remind you that it would not be permitted, for example, for the Minister for Energy to call an authority and tell them what to do, but we have legislation that is decided in this House. If the Center Party had had a concrete proposal and not only used it rhetorically in this debate, the Parliament would have been able to decide on such legislation if there was a majority in favour of it. In form, the government cannot call the authorities and tell them what to do. But, of course, we can change the legislation if there is a need for it. However, I do not think that changes in legislation may be necessary on this issue, but it may be enough for us to have a discussion on how to look at guarantees of origin. I note that, despite Rickard Nordin's high tone on this issue, I have not seen any concrete proposal. Having said that, I would like to conclude with a few reflections on what we have to decide on and debate today – the direction of energy policy. I am pleased that the Center Party also supports the target of 100% renewable electricity production. I know that in their election manifesto they had a more general wording on renewable energy. We have now reached agreement on a long-term energy policy, and I think this is important for Sweden, after so many years of debate on this policy. Rickard Nordin said a lot in his speech about what the Center Party should have been running in the energy negotiations. We cannot, of course, refer here to what is said in negotiations – we do not have a protocol – but I think it is important that the parties declare before the negotiations what they are pushing for political proposals, so that the voters can then evaluate. I am pleased that we agreed on 100% renewable energy and that the Center Party will now also vote in favour of the bill that we have to debate and decide on.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-212	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Today is a historic day for Sweden. With this debate and the forthcoming vote on the bill on the direction of energy policy, we will leave fruitless political locks behind. Swedish energy policy has reached a new, stable position – a situation where together, across block borders, we take responsibility for ensuring stable access to electricity that has competitive prices and is produced in a way that does not destroy our environment or our climate. V i will thus leave behind us a 40-year debate on Swedish energy policy – a policy that we have seen shadows of in this debate as well. The fact that we are able to come together and take joint responsibility for such an important issue as the availability of energy is a true strength for our country. At a time when the world around us may feel increasingly anxious and politics increasingly focuses on differences, we show that cooperation is possible also in matters that are loaded and that cooperation is a strength and an asset for a country. We show that politics is not just wanting to change, but that politics is primarily about ensuring that the change takes place. Access to energy is a prerequisite for a modern society. Access to electricity and energy give us the opportunity to build better societies for our citizens and also gave us the whole industrial revolution, with all that it meant when it came to building successful societies. Mr President, I would like to Already in the 1970s and 1980s we began to understand so little that our way of extracting and using energy also has a backside. The way we extract and use energy affects the environment, climate, health and safety. Today, in 2018, two thirds of the world's climate gas emissions come from the energy sector – two thirds. This means that we will not be able to meet the climate challenge if we do not switch the energy sector. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes when we get reports of melting polar ices, of weakened golf current, of drought and of increasingly violent weather, it may seem somewhat hopeless. However, I would say that when you look at the developments that we have today, you are now beginning to see the solutions that will help us to change. It's not just that it's possible. What is amazing in recent years is that what is technically possible is also becoming the economically wise thing to do. It is a fantastic development, where solar electricity is now the most competitive way to produce energy in many sunny parts of the world. Wind power, as we heard, is increasingly competitive in those parts of the world where solar electricity today is not. Costs have also fallen dramatically in terms of electricity and energy storage. Mr President, I would like to This gives us completely new opportunities to take the next step and make sure to solve the needs of our industries and our citizens, but do so in a way that does not destroy the environment and the climate. It was on this basis that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised in his first government declaration to invite a broad energy settlement. He saw both the need to end the decade-long discussion in Sweden about the good or not to be of nuclear power and the need to secure electricity and energy for our industries and households in a way that does not destroy our climate and our health. He did so so that our citizens and our companies will always have access to the energy they need when they need it. In spring 2015, the Energy Commission started its work. All parliamentary parties were invited, and a parliamentary working group was formed. I'm reading from the mission: The Energy Commission's mission is to review the future need for energy based on current and existing research. The Commission shall identify the challenges and opportunities for future energy supply. Electricity supply is an important issue for Sweden's development and competitiveness. Therefore, the Commission has a particular focus on electricity. The mission is to provide a basis for a broad political agreement on the orientation of energy policy, focusing on 2025 and beyond. ..................................................... We were working on transparency and our aim was to build on facts and research rather than opinion and to consolidate positions already. Mr President, I would like to Many were involved: the energy sector, environmental organisations, industry and industry, and politicians from all parties. Sometimes it really felt like we were doing a great social group work together. There was a common pressure after change, a common will, and that was the result. In the summer of 2016 we reached a political agreement. In June 2016, the government, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats were able to present a historically broad energy agreement. We agreed that Sweden should have a robust electrical system with high security of supply, a low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. This creates long-term clarity for market players and contributes to new jobs and investments in Sweden. The Energy Agreement covers many areas: the production, transmission and use of electricity. In particular, it sets out key energy policy objectives. The key objectives that we formulated in a political agreement in the summer of 2016 are here today to debate and take decisions on this particular bill, the orientation of energy policy. It is about 100% renewable e l production in 2040, 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 and the three pillars on which energy policy is to be built. Mr President, I would like to Why is this bill historical and important to Sweden? Yes, it is because it contains objectives that will shape Swedish energy policy for many years to come. Security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability are the pillars on which it is based, but also the direction of 100% renewable electricity production. Mr President, I would like to The debate is trying to make this an old common problem about the product of nuclear power or not to be. But the reality is that we have a fantastic technological revolution, not only for solar power and wind power, but also for storage and for smart grids. And either you're in charge of this development or you're behind it. Mr President, I would like to Add to that the nuclear power plant owners' own statement that they see, with good conditions, that they can operate the current nuclear power plants by around 2040. Mr President, I would like to The policy we are now establishing is not just realistic. It is also the most likely development with the cost picture that we have before us. Of course there are challenges. Had they not been there, we would not have needed a Commission or a settlement. It is precisely these challenges that we are now addressing. And when Sweden does, it's not just good for the climate. It will also be good for economic growth and job creation in this country. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to end by thanking all the parties, business organisations, companies, environmental organisations and energy sectors who have participated in a serious and competent way and have helped to ensure that we have this historic agreement. In addition, during the last energy policy debate in the parliamentary term, I would like to express my special thanks to the members who were involved in negotiating the energy agreement: Åsa Westlund from the Social Democrats, Lise Nordin from the Green Party, Lars Helmered from the Moderates, Rickard Nordin from the Center Party and Penilla Gunther from the Christian Democrats. Together, we have demonstrated the strength of cooperation across blocs. Together we have shown that politics can and has taken responsibility for the really difficult issues and for what is Sweden and Sweden's development. It is not always easy – rather the opposite. Much in politics today is moving in a different direction, namely to struggle and quarrel at each other. That's what gives likes and thumb up on social media. But if you want to achieve results, then you fight for your convictions and enter into a negotiation. Often, I will admit, Mr President, it is tough negotiations. But it is also prepared to move forward pragmatically, as we heard earlier, and to find solutions. We have done this today. I am very happy to say this again: today is a historic day. We will decide on new energy policy objectives that will shape Swedish energy policy for a long time to come. It's good for the country. It's good for the climate. It's good for the economy.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-235	Mr President, I would like to I was actually going to start with another question to the Government. However, I was somewhat surprised by parts of the Government's speech that perhaps testify to a lack of knowledge about the situation. What is partly highlighted is the argument that we will not be able to meet a climate challenge if we do not change our energy sector. This is something that is true at global and European level, but it is not true at Swedish level. The average global emission level is approximately 528 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt hour. In Europe, the level is almost half that, and in the Nordic perspective, the level is only one tenth. Sweden has a level equivalent to 4% of the level globally; it is 96% lower. The question then is whether the Government seriously believes that greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by a 100% renewable target at all.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-237	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that that was the strangest question I have received in this House, Mattias Bäckström Johansson. The contribution of the energy sector to climate gas emissions is widely accepted. The fact that, globally, two thirds of all greenhouse gas emissions come from the energy sector is true. It is also true that our electricity system is the second most low-carbon in the world – but we have a transport sector that continues to emit large quantities. Although Sweden has the highest share of renewable energy in the transport sector, it represents only 20 percent; 80 percent is fossil energy. The fact that we have industries, not least the steel industry, which emit large amounts of carbon dioxide is also true. Something else that is true, and very gratifying, is that these industries, unlike the Swedish Democrats, are extremely progressive. They now go in and see it as an important part of their business model to actually change and find solutions to problems that have existed for a long time. As a result, they also strengthen their competitiveness, not only through cheaper energy but also as part of their product advertising. Our electricity sector is therefore very low-carbon – certainly, it is the world's second most low-carbon – but the fact that our energy sector continues to emit very large amounts of carbon dioxide is a fact. In fact, even having to answer a question of this nature from an energy-political spokesperson surprises me.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-241	Mr President, I would like to It is quite obvious that the Swedish power system has no potential to reach much lower. On the contrary, the energy that the government wants to add to greenhouse gas emissions per kilowatt hour produced. This will lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions from that part of the power sector. That makes it a chimär to talk about it from a Swedish perspective, as it is not a truth. Sweden already has a fossil-free power system that has very little impact in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, and this should continue to be cared for and protected. We have absolutely no objection to achieving fossil freedom in other parts of the industry. The problem arises well when you want to separate this and have just 100 percent renewable as a goal only in energy policy when in environmental work as a whole it is fossil freedom that is the target. We find it most unfortunate that we want to delimit it in this way. The problem is also that one sees the target as something that leads to an electricity system that will be characterized by higher security of supply. We from the Swedish Democrats find it very difficult to see how more weather-dependent power production would lead to higher security of supply. We have already changed energy policy during this parliamentary term to focus more on the issue of impact and addressing and raising it, even though in the coming years we really have a challenge around the corner after Ringhals 1 and 2 have been closed. What I think we are going to talk more about in the coming term of office is precisely the swing mass, which is now declining very quickly in the system as large synchronous generators disappear. We will have an incredibly sensitive system that will not be made possible by weather-dependent power generation, and there is no plan for how to handle it. I would like to ask how 100% renewables automatically lead to higher security of supply, with which the government justifies its proposal.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-245	Mr President, I would like to There will be clear dividing lines. In conclusion, one can say that the Swedish Democrats are against renewable energy and for nuclear power. You'd be happy to be. In an energy settlement that exists and the objectives we are now setting, we are not putting forces against each other in that way. On the other hand, just check out what reality looks like. Current nuclear power will be phased out for economic reasons – by the owners. They say that this is happening with good conditions up to 2040, and I even think that it can go faster precisely for the economic reasons. What, then, is the solution? Yes, we are arguing that the technological revolution that is currently under way and which creates the opportunity to solve many of the challenges and problems we can agree on is the path we should take. What, then, is the road of the Swedish Democrats? Is it building new nuclear power plants? After all, there are some neighbouring countries that do. When it comes to replacing the ten current nuclear reactors with ten new ones, we can look at our Finnish neighbours. The cost of a reactor that is about the same – slightly larger – than Oskarshamn's third reactor is about 100 billion. Ten reactors means $1,000 billion. Who's gonna pay for this? Is it the taxpayer who should be burdened with it? According to the current regulations, which we broadly support in the Riksdag, this should be done on a private basis. To be honest, no one believes in it. Do the Swedish Democrats really believe that we are going to solve these electricity and energy problems in an efficient and cost-effective way, the renewable path is the reasonable one. If the Swedish Democrats do not support this, they must also account for where they will take 50 billion a year over 20 years to build new nuclear power at the expense of taxpayers.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-249	Mr President, I would like to At an energy policy meeting the other week, Ibrahim Baylan was asked whether he could sleep well at night in view of the challenges of energy policy. He said yes. I believe, however, that there may still be cause to worry a little about the future of energy policy at night, and I am thinking, above all, of security of supply. As some of us mentioned in our speeches, there is a report from the Swedish power grid that shows quite worrying figures. The fact that security of supply is at risk of becoming worse than in the 1970s should still lead to one or two sleepless hours. So my question to the Minister for Energy is: is he not worried about how we are going to solve the security of supply, and how does he envisage 100% renewable contributing to that goal?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-251	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Maria Weimer! It is an important issue, but I sleep well at night precisely because we now have a historic and new situation where a large majority of the Swedish Parliament is behind a common energy policy. The challenges are there, but that's why we have an energy settlement. That is why, together, we have tabled not only this proposal – this parliamentary term has rained proposals based on the energy deal. It has been about everything from renewables to hydroelectric power, the conditions for the market and nuclear power. Yes, Mr President, I would say that since the great battles over nuclear power in the 1970s, this parliamentary term is perhaps the most intense in terms of energy policy and its change. It was at the seminar where the expert authority presented the report that I was asked. If you listen to our expert authorities, you will hear them say: Yes, the two nuclear reactors that are phased out during this term of office and the two that are planned for 2020 we will manage, because we have such margins in our system. But if all nuclear power is removed in a snap, we will have problems. However, it goes without saying that nuclear power currently accounts for 40% of our electricity. That is why we have an energy arrangement that enables us to meet the challenge step by step. There are challenges in terms of security of supply, but there are also technical solutions that we are now implementing. We are changing our hydropower policy to make it more environmentally sustainable and so that we can have more effect from it. We have smart grids, storage and demand response – many things we are now taking on to ensure that industries and our households can always get the energy they need at competitive prices.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-254	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the energy minister's policy is partly pushing alongside the target. One of the main successes of the agreement described by the Minister for Energy is in fact 100% renewable – a goal we do not need today. We do not have problems with too little weather-dependent electricity; it was not a challenge we painted when we started the Energy Commission. We do not have a challenge with too little wind or sun in the system, but the challenges that were very clear when we started the work were the power balance and delivery security. So the target of 100% renewables goes completely alongside the challenges we actually have. We know that the electricity grid for the summer is so fragile that it would not be able to cope with the unplanned disconnection of any reactor. We know that Swedish power networks have taken the drastic action to give the order to reduce production. Mr President, I would like to I believe there is cause for concern. Even summer is not safe when we know that in summer we usually do not have cold temperatures and can be safe. There is cause for concern. Government policy has contributed to this in part.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-258	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to regret that, as in many other political agreements, the Liberals have only dropped out before the final negotiation has even been reached. What is the problem of the Liberals on this specific issue – the energy agreement and energy policy – is that industry, the energy sector, environmental organisations and academia have all welcomed and supported the energy agreement. They don't do that because it's perfect. It would be presumptuous to believe that. It is because we are now creating a stable structure where we not only address the short-term challenges we have but step by step work together to solve the long-term challenges. It is a unique opportunity both in Sweden and in Swedish politics but also unique when looking around Europe. Whether it is in Germany, Finland, the United Kingdom or France, this is still the case, and it is at very high costs. Mr President, I would like to All right, the Liberals are against the investment in renewable electricity generation, fine! But what is the Liberal solution? When a deal was made within the previous government, the Liberals believed that it would mean ten new nuclear reactors where the old were on market terms. Today it is only Jan Björklund and Santa – and perhaps not even Santa – who thinks that this would happen. No one else does. What is the Liberal solution? I'm the first to regret that you're not in the deal. In fact, we have challenges. We'll take them together. But what is the Liberals' way forward?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-262	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Energy talks in his speech about the historic agreement that we have laid down. It is historic, important and good. We fully agree on that. Now the question is how we get there. How do we achieve the objectives of energy efficiency, reduction of emissions, electrification in the transport sector and all that is absolutely necessary for us to be able to reduce emissions and have security of supply, competitiveness and also ecologically sustainable energy supply? There I highlight the perspective that it is absolutely necessary that we get a business climate in Sweden where we get start-up companies that are the ones that deliver the new solutions in order to be able to move forward with energy storage, energy efficiency and all the other extremely important environmental technologies that we need. That is absolutely necessary. With our energy production, we can, of course, export to our neighbours and those closest to us. But if we are to get China, India and other countries to switch, we must also be able to export energy technology. Here I see some challenges. It is in the form of regulatory problems that make it difficult for companies and where entrepreneurs feel that the regulatory burden has increased this term of office. Here there are challenges in the tax system where it has become more expensive to hire key people. It has become more difficult to recruit key skills and engineers from other countries. We can also look at the issue of free trade where an even clearer position is needed from both government parties on the conditions for free trade. I think it is absolutely necessary and interconnected. We need to have a good business climate in order to achieve the objectives and not just to talk about the objectives. Here I would like to know whether the Minister is satisfied with the business environment we have and whether he believes that the necessary start-ups will start in Sweden.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Sofia Fölster! I agree. It is perhaps a little unusual in these election times to agree with their political opponents, but that is the case. The work we are now doing creates an environment where new innovations and new solutions emerge. I also agree that these are solutions that we not only use in our country with the challenges we have, but that may be even more the basis of an export industry that blooms and leads to more jobs and economic growth while at the same time solving some of the huge climate problems we have. We are actively working on this. It is important to support start-ups and help them out into the world. I think I have had about fifty small and medium-sized people with me when I have gone to China, Japan, Indonesia, India, Iran, Turkey, Mexico, the United States and others. The reason we support them is because we think we have very good technology, very good solutions and very good entrepreneurs. What's the big problem? I am very proud of the industrial policy we are pursuing. Swedish business is doing very well. One of the major challenges is the lack of skills. There we have invested a great deal in expanding our education system. This applies to university of applied sciences as well as higher education, municipal adult education and more to ensure that demand is met not only now but also forward. Mr President, I would like to It should be remembered that one of the main reasons why we are in such a situation is that the Swedish business community is doing very well. As far as free trade is concerned, I think we are in complete agreement between our parties that it is very good. This isn't where the threats come from, but unfortunately from the United States.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-273	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that at least the Minister for Energy partly agrees with what I am saying. I am pleased that we share the intention of this. But then it is also a matter of presenting sharp reforms to get there and achieve the important objectives we are setting today. Here we see that companies are experiencing an increase in regulatory uncertainty during this term of office. They feel that it makes it more difficult to start a business and grow. It's a problem we have to deal with. It is absolutely essential if the start-ups that develop new energy technologies are also to be able to export it. The issue of free trade is another important issue. There, of course, our two parties agree. But the government partners of the Social Democrats have not even made up their minds. They are not all in agreement in their parliamentary group if they want free trade with Canada. Nevertheless, it is a country that has a more progressive energy and environmental policy than, for example, China and many of the major Asian emissions. Nevertheless, there are important issues to address for the government too in order to ensure that we have a business environment where the next energy technology is created in Sweden. Let me conclude by saying that we sometimes have an overconfidence that it is we in this House who are going to solve all the problems, that we are the ones who come up with all the new inventions and that we are the ones who take the big clique of climate change. It's not that. Anyone who comes up with and develops the electric car that becomes so cheap that it becomes cheaper for the Indian and Chinese car owner to buy than a petrol car is the one who takes the biggest climate cliff. If we can make changes to get a business climate that is good not only in economic boom but also in recession we will take the biggest climate clique. A major contribution to the government is to take advantage of this and to be more progressive also in terms of regulatory simplification, free trade and the possibility for companies to start and grow here.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-279	Mr President, I would like to When we agree on the public opinion that is being put forward, we would still like to have a debate. After all, they are choices, and you do not want to appear to be too close to each other. I can buy that. Nevertheless, I will do something unusual on my behalf by saying: Thank you for a very good cooperation! After all, that is what will ultimately play a role in this. Then to the question of foreign trade and business conditions. It would be strange if the companies sat down and said that everything is fantastic. They're pushing. That is their role and their task, and that is a good thing. But you must not forget what reality looks like. The reality is that there is probably no government that has invested as much in promoting exports as this one. It has also been expressed by industry itself a number of times. Swedish business is doing very well. This does not mean that there are no problems and challenges. I am sure that if, as we did on the energy issue, we sit down together, we can make a few steps forward. Mr President, I would like to As far as free trade is concerned, there are differences of opinion between large and small parties. That is also true in the Moderates. You can tell by day. The government believes in free trade and proposes to Parliament that we support this CETA agreement because it is good for our country. It is also good for our world with this kind of contacts, dialogue and activity. Unfortunately, we are now in a position where developments are currently going in the wrong direction. Therefore, it is important not to keep on making a fuss of something that is not a wood. Instead, we should, together and with full force, both in the European Union and with our partners on the other side of the Atlantic, point out that the path chosen is not good either for American consumers and American industries or for anyone else on the globe. I think this is more important than that we are in the middle of something that is basically no fun.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-283	Mr President, I would like to I will be the last to come out of this Chamber, which feels a little special, during this parliamentary term. I would therefore like to begin by thanking Ibrahim Baylan and the government. We have had many debates and tough debates. We have had negotiations which have been tough at times but which have ultimately been constructive. They have not least – after some pressure, one must say – contained very good coffee. There are still some things that can make me a little concerned and that I'm thinking about how the government looks at. I asked earlier about the guarantees of origin for electricity. We have a similar system when it comes to biogas – the green-gas principle. If a company delivers 100 percent biogas and delivers it online, I can buy 100 percent biogas as a consumer. It is the same as when the Swedish Energy Agency says that you should be able to deliver it and thus also sell it. Does the government think this is a good principle? And does the government think that this is a legal principle? These are my questions to the Government.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-286	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with another question, which Rickard Nordin put earlier to the Social Democrat Patrik Engström and which Patrik Engström referred to me, namely the one about Boverket's building rules. I want Rickard Nordin to get answers to his questions. I believe that we are united in this House and also in the energy agreement that the system needs to be changed. It is not good as it is today, as it leads us away from a more efficient and climate-friendly system. After all, district heat is supplied with almost 100%, at least 95%, renewable energy. We will continue to work on this issue, but we do not have it ourselves. It is also European directives that regulate this, and that is what has prevented us from coming forward. We must continue to process Europe so that these directives can be amended. What complicates the matter is that there are very few European countries that have district heating. On the other hand, there is a broad focus on solar cells and other things at the moment. But we will come back to this in the next parliamentary term. We have not let it go, and we will make sure that we get the change we need to get this here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to As far as guarantees of origin are concerned, it is quite telling how energy policy has developed in our country when a debate and a change of line should be about that very thing. But these are important issues. And no, we have not yet seen the problem from the government. Now it turns up, and then we'll have to look at it and see if there needs to be changes in laws and regulations. In that case, we can do it. It is just as Lise Nordin said before: sometimes, as a minister, you are accused of not acting more forcefully, but when you do, you are accused of ministerial government. And ministerial rule doesn't want to indulge in unnecessarily, does it?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-292	Mr President, I would like to Now it was the green-gas principle I asked about. Ibrahim Baylan used a minute and ten seconds to talk about Boverket's building rules, and then he talked about guarantees of origin. This is about electricity and not biogas at all. I find it a little fascinating, and it seems that the government chooses not to answer at all. Let's look forward to the next term of office when the government takes hold of this and we've changed roles. Then we can stand in reverse here in the seats and debate this. Before the energy agreement, we negotiated a regulation on the power reserve. The power reserve shall consist of installations using renewable energy – a green power reserve. However, when this 100 percent biogas power reserve was tendered for, Swedish power grids said: The purchase and cancellation of biogas certificates does not change the fact that, when the power reserve was activated, the plant would be powered by fossil fuel, because that is what is delivered in the networks. Then the whole green-gas principle has been totally misunderstood. This was done during the previous procurement. Does the government think this is a problem? The Center Party finds it a problem that Swedish power networks do this. Swedish power networks are under the government's supervision, which can be used in regulatory letters and other things without a minister's statement. The government as a whole can and should govern its authorities. This power plant is now under threat of closure; it is currently being applied for closure because it was not awarded the contract. Instead, fossil oil is the power reserve. So my questions remain, Ibrahim Baylan: Does the government accept the green-gas principle? And if so, what will be done to ensure that their own government agencies, in this case, also accept it?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-298	Mr President, I would like to I thought naively that Rickard Nordin was interested in getting answers to his questions – hence the fact that I used a minute to answer his first question. But as I said, these are election times, and when you are so close to each other and vote for the same policy but still feel the need to show that you are in opposition, you can of course always try to get to gripes in matters where there are no contentions. In the question of the procurement of Swedish power networks, this is regulated both by law and by regulation. Rickard Nordin knows that. In addition to wanting it to be more renewable, it must also be economically viable. This Parliament, in particular, has ensured that this is the case. These are the two principles that apply. Nor should we exaggerate what this is all about. The reserve that we have and that we have extended is hardly used. We have it because it is a reserve for security, but in fact it is used as rarely as three or four times, I think, in a decade. We should not exaggerate its impact on our climate or on our energy system. Let me take an example. On February 28, this year, we had the coldest day of the year. Between eight and nine o'clock in the morning we were in need of electricity production of about 26 750 megawatts. Then the reserve was up and running, but it was never used. So you shouldn't exaggerate. Yes, we want more renewable energy also in the power reserve. Yes, it is up to the Swedish power grid to procure this. This applies to the principle that it should be both green and economically competitive and therefore also the cheapest possible for consumers when the reserve is used.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-307	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 on the main features of the policy and its implementation. That's a good reservation. Today, we are debating global development policy on the basis of a government letter. The PGU, as it is abbreviated, is one way of ensuring that politics stays together. It is a way for the Riksdag to appoint the government to stick with what is being said with what is being done. The result will be in the letter. Now it didn't get so good in shape. The letter is anecdotal and cannot be followed up, and the responsible minister is not, as usual, in the debate. The letter also bundles PGU with the UN's global sustainability goals. It is a way for the government to transfer power over the issues from the Riksdag to the Government. We don't appreciate that. Have respect for Parliament's decisions! Stop these slips! This is particularly remarkable because the current government decided yesterday on a national action plan for the SDGs. We cannot discuss it here today because the government has done too little and too late. They promised a strong parliamentary foundation, but none of it was. It was not submitted as a letter to Parliament for debate and decision, but is a pure government product that only applies to S and MP. Like the current government, it also has a best-performing date, which is 9 September. It is unfortunate – both politically and because a lot of time and effort have entered that plan. But the political leadership has not delivered. It has neither cooperated nor anchored. We might have been able to say more about the plan today in the debate, but no, it was only published for a short while yesterday at the government.se. But now the Secretary of State has called and promised me that it will be posted as soon as it has been cleared – possibly when we are done here. Mr President, I would like to PGU has long had broad political support. I assume that the Swedish policy contributes to meeting the sustainability objectives to which we are committed. There are, of course, political differences and different political priorities. We particularly highlight the role of trade in development, for example. But when the government reports on the work this badly, it will be difficult to follow up. The whole committee agrees on this, although the choice of words may be different. Mr President, I would like to Maybe it's time to discuss PGU for real. When it was introduced it was something new, but with the sustainability goals and the whole new and global structure to work within maybe PGU has played out its role. Whether this is the case or not, it is Parliament's decision, not the government's. And we don't pull the plug on PGU in a little letter. No, the government must ensure that work on both the PGU and the sustainability goals is anchored parliamentaryly. There is a great deal of consensus and much that we agree on, and that is good for Sweden. Sweden will deliver on the sustainability goals. It's the least we can expect. We are well on our way thanks to several broad and good decisions in the Riksdag.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-316	Mr President, I would like to As has been said earlier, today we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 21, the Policy for Global Development (PGU). I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2. As can be seen from the letter from the government that we are discussing here, in September 2015 the UN General Assembly adopted Agenda 2030 and the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. Leaders from all corners of the world agreed that the goals should contribute to social, economic and environmental sustainable development and be achieved by 2030 in all countries in the world. On 1 January 2016, Agenda 2030 replaced the eight Millennium Goals that the United Nations and the world's countries had been working on since 2000. The 17 cases are divided into 169 cases. I was privileged to be in New York and the UN quite soon after the targets were adopted. I thought it was solemn, and it was interesting and rewarding to hear various seminars and discussions on how the world's countries could agree on these goals. On the paper that I now hold up is shown the colorful, nice picture that describes the goals and that many have surely seen. You can buy different pins and so on. I think this is something positive that the UN has implemented. Other things that the UN has done may not always have been very positive, but this is a good thing. The committee states in the report that global development policy aims to start from the perspective of poor people on development, which means that it is their needs, interests and prerequisites that should be the starting point for achieving fair and sustainable global development. The perspective of rights means that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are to be seen as fundamental for development. We all agree that this is a good thing in committee. Then there is some criticism of how the government has presented this and how it has been implemented. I'll get a little bit more into it later. When it comes to Sweden's views on these objectives, we think that starting from poor people's perspectives on development is of great importance in international development cooperation. Our overall goal of aid is to promote a development policy that creates the conditions for people in poverty and oppression to improve their living conditions based on basic needs in their immediate everyday lives. The focus should be on combating poverty and placing the best interests of children at the centre. It is a good thing that there is still an objective No 1 which is about eradicating poverty. To achieve this, we believe that a greater focus in aid policy should be on targeting the most vulnerable people in the least developed countries. Mr President, I would like to Another objective that I have highlighted several times in the process when we have discussed these objectives is objective 6 on clean water and sanitation, which is a prerequisite for several other objectives, such as health and well-being in Objective 3 and equality in Objective 5. Lack of water and sanitation affects women and children particularly hard and hinders their opportunities for development. Repeated diarrhoea is the second most common cause of death among young children in poor countries. That is why we believe that the government should do much more in terms of aid spending to promote the achievement of these objectives. Contaminated water and lack of access to sanitation also pose a health risk for pregnant women and during childbirth. The lack of clean water can prevent women's opportunities for equality – it prevents women's opportunities for participation in society. In conclusion, access to clean water, safe sanitation and hygiene are fundamental human rights and crucial for people's survival, health, gender equality, education, welfare and economic productivity. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the objective of eradicating poverty and the objective of decent working conditions and economic growth, we believe that it is important for efforts to contribute to increased employment and economic development. It is crucial for a successful fight against poverty. We welcome increased collaboration with the business community and private actors for job creation efforts. Of course, it is also very important to invest in trade. With regard to the objectives relating to environmentally sustainable development, our election platform points out that we want to invest even more clearly in the conservation of important rainforests through aid. The natural resources of tropical forests are important for wildlife, and the forest is also an economic resource in the form of timber. It also has a very important climate function. When extensive forest areas are cut down, the local and regional climate changes in many different ways. This is an important issue which I think is being forgotten far too much in the environmental and climate debate. The difference between these objectives and the previous MDGs is that Agenda 2030 not only focuses on how we should help and contribute to developing countries and that developing countries themselves should contribute to development, but also on how Sweden can achieve these goals nationally. The Government has worked to develop an action plan for the implementation of Agenda 2030. As part of this, in March 2016, the Government appointed a delegation to support and stimulate the work. The Agenda 2030 delegation presented an interim report in 2017 proposing the Action Plan and will report on its work in 2019. These things are good, but we think that this is not enough. On the one hand, the dialogue with Parliament must be much better, and on the other hand, as we point out in our reservation, in order to evaluate Sweden's work on Agenda 2030 in an even more independent way, we want to see a regular evaluation of an external, international party that can assess how Sweden meets the objectives of Agenda 2030 in addition to the reports already submitted to the UN today. This is my last speech during this parliamentary term, and I would like to thank you for this time and wish everyone a really happy and pleasant summer. I'll see you in the election campaign!
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-332	Mr President, I would like to This PGU letter, which I am now showing to Members of this House, is the second during this term of office, and it came in March. In the letter, the Government presents examples of its work on global development policy (PGU) during 2016 – 2017 within the framework of Agenda 2030 and the global goals. The Parliament has thus had another collection of examples from the government to deal with. Fifteen years ago, in 2003, this House decided on global development policy. It was a well-prepared parliamentary decision. It was important to have a long-term perspective in development work, over mandates and over governments. The stated objectives are to start from a developmental perspective of poor people and, as we have highlighted, to have a clear rights perspective based on fundamental rights such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law. That was a good ambition. And it is a good ambition that this government, like previous governments, has tried to gather together to get a consensus and get the whole government involved in the work on global development policy. Mr President, I would like to Good ambitions can be legitimate, but they must be followed up. When the Millennium Goals were replaced by Agenda 2030, the 17 goals and all milestones below, the government chose to collect everything and lost focus. The target was dropped. We were some who were looking at the action plans that the government had before examining the last letter. They were secret from this chamber. But I can tell you that they weren't very interesting. Rather, it was fortunate that the House was not burdened with these collections of examples. And on that path it has continued. Now we get a letter again. We have an audit role; it is part of the mandate of the committee and the House to examine whether the government meets the objectives set. But there goes the committee, Mr President. We have had a picture that the government has had broad consultations on Agenda 2030. The delegation was appointed. However, Parliament has not been entrenched, unlike in other areas. We've had environmental protection preparations. We have adopted legislation. We have clear objectives with what we want to achieve. And the government is allowed to work on the basis of the Parliament's established positions on established goals. However, there are no clearly defined objectives in this area by the Riksdag. We note that the delegation appointed by the government has also realised in its final report that Parliament has not been consulted and involved. It makes a clear recommendation on the importance of having a broad political base, preferably even cross-block agreements – listen to it, Mr President – and long-term objectives. Common strategies are what it is possible for this House to follow up. It is also possible for the committees to follow up. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we agreed that it was important to give the entire parliamentary committee organisation the opportunity to express its views on the government's second letter in connection with PGU and Agenda 2030. However, as the report shows, not a single committee has chosen to give its opinion on the letter. This says something about the work on Agenda 2030 and PGU in Parliament during this parliamentary term. Of course, nothing is good. However, if you set up the work as an example collection, it is not possible for Parliament's committees to work actively on this, to be reviewing and follow up. Nor is there a clear goal to be set. Mr President, I would like to That is why, as we see it, a parliamentary process of preparation is necessary, as is the case with the work of the PGU. We want to develop and upgrade the goals when it comes to PGU, and we want to do so linked to Agenda 2030. We have made this clear in our reservation in the report. I would like to ask you to accept reservation 3 in paragraph 1. We also highlight another reservation about combating climate change. However, for time to come, I am not in favour of it, although of course I am in favour of it. Climate change affects us all, all the time, but in different ways. Climate investment for adaptation and climate investment for action must be pursued. We see that people in rural areas, mostly women, are most affected by climate change and the lack of action. They often have the task of securing food, water and energy supplies, and they are hard hit by the shortcomings in this area. They are also hard hit by droughts and natural disasters. In the Center Party we are prepared to invest to find both investments that are climate-smart and measures that are sustainable. We are prepared to do so by providing more resources to the Green Fund. During this parliamentary term, we have shown that we have been prepared to provide additional resources, even beyond the aid budget, of 1% of GDP. We also have an ambition to try to find new ways to secure the financial resources that have been agreed globally need to be added to the Green Fund in order to achieve the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask you to accept reservation 3 in paragraph 1.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-345	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's letter on Global Development Policy in the implementation of Agenda 2030. The Left Party has previously pointed out that the Millennium Development Goals were given too little space in the development policy of the previous government. Unfortunately, too much of the Swedish development policy lacked a clear link with the objectives during this time. The fact that the Red-Green Government chose to clearly relate to Agenda 2030 in the update of the PGU was therefore very welcome. However, development policy is still characterised by the inability to clearly steer and take precedence over other policies. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that there are differences between policies for global development and Agenda 2030 and that the PGU should not be seen solely as a tool for achieving the objectives of Agenda 2030. Although we as countries should support each other in achieving the goals of Agenda 2030, it is up to each country to work to make them a reality at home. Of course, for example, Objective 4 on good education for all should be an objective in our development and development policy, but also the Education Committee must work to ensure that all children in Sweden receive a good education and not only some. Global development policy is not and should not be seen as just a tool for achieving Agenda 2030, as described in the letter. On the other hand, the PGU should and should permeate policy not only in the Committee on Foreign Affairs but also in other areas that affect developments in other countries. The conflicts of objectives should weigh more heavily in relation to the objectives of Agenda 2030. The government often beats its chest when it comes to feminist foreign policy, and certainly they have done a lot of good things. I cannot stress enough how important it was that Sweden refused to follow Trumps's gag rule which imposes serious restrictions on the lives and health of girls and women. On the contrary, Sweden stood up and said that we do not betray the right of girls and women to decide for themselves over their bodies. At the same time, Sweden has continued to export arms to countries that are authoritarian and undemocratic and violate human rights. Mr President, I would like to In its report on feminist foreign policy 2017, the development and development platform Concord states that increased proliferation of weapons contributes to increased militarisation and constitutes a direct threat to women's security. It is noted that, if feminist foreign policy and Sweden's Global Development Policy are to be credible, Sweden cannot, through arms exports, support states that systematically counteract the values and objectives of feminist foreign policy. The report also strongly criticises migration policy, which points out how the temporary law has been criticised by several heavy consultation bodies. The law divides families, completely contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights. It also strikes particularly hard at women, children and the elderly who remain in poverty in refugee camps or on internally displaced persons in war-torn countries without the possibility of legal ways to apply for asylum and have their case tried here in Sweden. In the report, many of the girls and women who remain in refugee camps and in neighbouring areas are forced into marriage as a solution to a desperate situation, and those who flee are at great risk of being subjected to sexual violence and trafficking. ..................................................... Of course, Sweden is doing good things in terms of global development policy and in order to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030, but we cannot turn a blind eye to what is not being done or what is directly opposed to a feminist foreign policy. There are target conflicts where the global development policy and the achievement of the objectives of Agenda 2030 apparently weigh lightly for the government in relation to other things, such as making money or stopping people from fleeing. The second point I would like to highlight in our reservation is the role of the private sector in development cooperation, something that the former bourgeois government worked hard to strengthen. The Left Party then questioned that priority, partly because of the shortcomings in the monitoring and accounting of private sector aid. Just as the work of aid organisations is constantly being monitored and carefully evaluated, private operators must be required to be responsible for their work. Of course, aid to businesses or business organisations should be monitored and evaluated in exactly the same way as other aid. That is why, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 4. A prerequisite for mankind's future is that we have at all an environment in which to live. Nature needs much stronger legal protection. As early as 1971, the Left Party in the Riksdag exercised an international convention to ban ecocid, that is, crimes against nature. The need to protect the environment legally has increased over the years. Regrettably, there are many cases of large-scale interventions on the environment that have damaged ecosystems and habitats for incalculable time, and unfortunately the environmental villains are easily escaped. Fortunately, the ICC has announced that the Court will now begin to address certain environmental objectives. This is an important step forward. Even better, however, would be a purely eco-cider application, where all cases of major environmental pollution would be indictable. Sweden should take the initiative and push forward within the UN and the EU to update the legal framework so that it becomes a powerful tool to prevent ecocid by including it in the Rome Statute. Then we would really be working on Agenda 2030. Finally, I would like to say that the intentions of the PGU and Agenda 2030 are really good. In some areas, this work also works well, both in terms of encouraging work and in terms of action plans. What we lack are clear evaluations and greater collaboration with the Riksdag. We also want to see more analyses of the actual conflicts of interests. Now it is a matter for the government to ensure that PGU and Agenda 2030 truly permeate all areas and get the weight needed for the policy to be credible.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-366	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is good that Sweden was early in having a policy for global development. We cannot say anything about that. Agenda 2030 and the new sustainability goals could possibly be seen as the world's catching up with Sweden. Unfortunately, unless Agenda 2030 and the PGU reinforce and complement each other, the PGU will not be the prerequisite that we think it should be, but rather a tool for the implementation of Agenda 2030. Global development policy is about so much more than aid. Perhaps it is something that not everyone has really grasped, and probably not the government, because then they would have acted in a completely different way. Parliament must play a significant role in the work on PGU and the implementation of Agenda 2030 if we are to be credible. The policy itself should strive to be long-term in all areas, and then it is not enough for the government to invite to some kind of general seminar on these issues or possibly come to various committees and inform. Mr President, I would like to It must be a participation worthy of the name. I, who usually sit on the Committee on Industry and Industry and debate these kinds of issues, think that this is really something in which we, too, should have been involved. I hold a card in my hand that clearly shows that industry takes Agenda 2030 seriously. I have the card in my purse to remind myself when I don't remember the different 17 goals. In various sectors initiatives have already been taken in various areas, including something that seems to have gone by the government. More people in the group have been appointed to work on Agenda 2030, but what does it mean if you do not anchor it in the Riksdag and in all the different policy areas that it is all about? Concord Sweden has recently done a survey of this with Agenda 2030 and the parties' attitude. It clearly shows that there are different approaches to how this is to be achieved. Why, then, do you not take the opportunity to gather the parties and go through what you want to do with Agenda 2030, so that it will be as lasting as possible? The idea itself is a goal of sustainable development. Then we must also be able to translate this into, not least, national policies. When it comes to the recently decided action plan, which came yesterday, I was able to read that six cross-sectoral areas have been chosen: equality and gender equality, a sustainable society, a society-friendly, circular and bio-based economy, a strong business sector with sustainable business, a sustainable and healthy food chain, and knowledge and innovation. Of course, I can push the 17 different objectives into these cross-sectoral areas – absolutely! However, I can compare with the previous debate on the orientation of energy policy. There we talked about this with a fossil-free Sweden. The industries themselves have formulated roadmaps to achieve this on the basis of their respective conditions. It may well be that you could have worked in the same way on these issues as well. Here you give assignments to the authorities. Of course, it is good that you think that the Swedish Financial Control Agency, SCB, Statskontoret and so on follow up and report this. We Christian Democrats have also lacked some kind of model for follow-up. What we are reacting to is the desire to set up a new investigation to develop more idea-based public partnerships, so-called IOPs. Then I am very surprised, because I myself sat in the reference group for an investigation that came almost two years ago, namely Palett for a strengthened civil society, where you talk about this just now. It is very thorough in length and cross, I would say. However, these proposals have not been taken advantage of at all. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that this is significant for this government. You're investigating things, letting people talk and be around, and so on. But then you don't care at all what the investigation has come up with. You still act in your own way and on your own behalf and cannot take advantage of what comes out. I don't know what kind of criteria you have when you set up investigations. I think a lot of people have felt cheated during this term of office. They have been allowed to participate in reference groups and say their opinion, but then no one cares. This is a clear indication of this. However, when there is a complete study of good proposals that have largely been supported by the whole of civil society, a new one is being set up. I really think it's a waste of money. We are talking about global development, about eradicating poverty, about having a sustainable circular economy and so on. Here we can really talk about the circular economy – when most investigations seem to end up in the circular archive, as they say. Mr President, I would like to I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 5 under paragraph 1. It concerns what I have been talking about here today: the responsibility of the government to ensure that the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the PGU is given broad parliamentary support, the publication of the Ministry's action plans and the importance of a continuous external review of the government's work to achieve coherence, so that we reach these objectives jointly in the future.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-377	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report. Today we are debating policies for global development. It is about policy coherence, both between policy areas and between policy formulation and implementation and follow-up. It is about complex relationships and about being able to cope and see the world as a whole. This coherent policy is ultimately aimed at sustainable, peaceful and fair development. During this term of office, the government has re-launched the work of the PGU. The new start took place in line with the recommendations of the Swedish civil society organisations. The government's efforts to make PGU the whole government's policy have been successful. We have clearly managed to link it to the work on Agenda 2030, and it has been received positively. There is an increased openness and willingness to dialogue on the part of the government in terms of taking in views from civil society and academia. The organisational conditions for implementing PGU have also been improved. We have become even better at exploiting synergies between different policy areas. Nevertheless, there are of course remaining conflicts of interest and objectives, which are also reported by the government. As early as 2003, PGU Sweden provided Sweden with an important tool to realise the ambition of a coherent policy. It is a key contribution to meeting the new global goals. In particular, I would like to highlight the government's work on Objective 5 of Agenda 2030, the objective of gender equality. It covers both sexual and reproductive health, with the right to midwifery and the right and access to contraception and safe abortions, as well as the protection of women and girls against trafficking in human beings, access to decent and productive work for women and enhanced ownership of women. The government's work continues. There are things to do when it comes to the foundation of Parliament. A united committee supports the need to find better forms of anchoring in Parliament. But work has begun. The anchoring of civil society and the anchoring of the Government Office on the broad side have come a long way.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-382	Mr President, I would like to The global sustainability goals are, if you want to simplify it, for everything that is good and against everything that is bad. It is difficult to find political conflicts in this. But I still think that there is a value to the voters in knowing how the Social Democrats view the PGU, that is, the Swedish policy of consensus. Does Maria Andersson Willner think it is reasonable for PGU to become a tool for achieving Agenda 2030? We landed reasonably in the texts of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but it is still interesting to know how you view the PGU. Is it a tool, or is it a policy area in its own right?
i-BqHtrvQjUta5U71x4NWhce	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Sofia Arkelsten. PGU is a tool for implementing Agenda 2030 by itself and what Parliament has decided on. I think that Yasmine Posio Nilsson from the Left Party said it well earlier, namely that it is partly about using coherence to ensure the implementation of Agenda 2030, and it is about what we can do in addition to the implementation of identifying target conflicts and ensuring that the policy is coherent and delivers from the perspective of poor people and the perspective of rights.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-384	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the conflict in the case is absent from the letter from the government. It is anecdotal at its best and is only about showing small examples. Therefore, the government has not taken its responsibility to go into the depths of what is PGU and what could be better. The interesting question may also be what the government's responsibility is for the PGU to be prioritised. It is clear from the committee's report that not a single other committee has delivered an opinion to us. It's really boring. What does Maria Andersson Willner think is the government's responsibility for the PGU's being reduced to the UN targets?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-387	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that the government has in any way deprioritised the PGU. On the contrary, we have instead given priority and made a fresh start. There is now concrete work in progress in the government. What we are discussing today is the government's presentation of the work that has been done to deliver on the PGU decided by the Riksdag. It is interesting that the Moderates and Sofia Arkelsten have no concrete proposals as to what should have been done instead. In reservation 1, which the Moderates are calling for, the trade perspective is included. We fully agree on that. We have common wordings in the aid budget that we adopted last autumn. Almost literally what Sofia Arkelsten proposes to approve is already included. Otherwise, it's about form, shape and form. Form is of course extremely important, but when it comes to politics, the Moderates have not delivered any concrete proposals as to what it is that should have been done instead and what the government has not done – except what we already agree on. What is the change in the government's work with PGU? Now Sofia Arkelsten unfortunately cannot answer the question, but it would have been interesting to discuss what the Moderates and Sofia Arkelsten mean when they say that PGU has been down-priorityd. To my knowledge, this accounting looks exactly the same as the previous government's accounts of PGU. There is no change or deterioration in that part. There are also no concrete proposals as to what should have been done and what has not been done.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-393	Mr President, I would like to A new start for PGU was made. Where is the follow-up of the PGU new start? What are the objectives set out in the letter from the Government so that you can follow what the new start means? The Parliament has set the targets for PGU. They should be the perspective of poor people, the perspective of rights, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Where does the letter follow up on how the government has lived up to the objectives of the PGU? PGU is not a tool, but PGU has set a goal. That is also the objective of aid policy in the budget. The letter requested by the Riksdag has been based on the fact that we will be able to find out how to follow up the objectives. Where in the letter submitted by the government can we follow up the cases? Where is this follow-up clearly visible? There has been a clear debate, Mr President, in this House. Do the Social Democrats stand up for a parliamentary process of preparation to ensure that there is a clear target in this House over the PGU and Agenda 2030?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-397	Mr President, I would like to What the government has done in terms of the new start is much about increased knowledge, strengthened participation and developed tools to work with PGU. As I have already mentioned, this work has been done in a thorough and structured manner in the Government Office. What we would have to do is have this process in Parliament as well. It is clear from the committee's report that no other committee has chosen to speak. There is a representative from the Committee on Economic Affairs here, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has not given an opinion on the matter. That's too bad. But it cannot be the government's responsibility that the Committee on Economic Affairs does not comment on a letter about PGU. The President has done his best to increase the knowledge in Parliament about PGU issues at a seminar. It is not about taking over the government's responsibility for the anchoring process, but it is about that we in Parliament must take our own responsibility for the issues. If we do not use the possibilities for influence that are still available in terms of opinions, own proposals and clarity in the debate, the responsibility is not solely with the government. Then there was the question of parliamentary preparation. That question is difficult. We have agreed in committee – apart from Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party – that we are not prepared to endorse such a preparation. But we must continue that dialogue. Maybe that's the solution for the next period. We'll have to get back to you.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-400	Mr President, I would like to A new start for PGU is about starting a new process to achieve the goals. When I hear Maria Andersson Willner it sounds rather like a fresh start in the Government Office to discuss the goals – or possibly examples. There have been several examples. Perhaps this is about knowledge building. But the Riksdag has set targets for PGU. The PGU letter is about following up on how the government manages the targets. That is the order Parliament has made several times, that is, the basis for a letter about PGU to deal with here today. However, there are no objectives to follow up in the letter. That is regrettable. I have tried to follow what has happened to the action plan adopted by the government yesterday. It came up on the website 20 hours ago, but now it is not to be seen. It is removed – as it looks. How is the Action Plan anchored? What does it look like? It is serious that Parliament cannot deal with new targets. The government has adopted an action plan a few months before the elections, without foundation in the Riksdag and despite the signals from its own delegation. The sustainability and long-termness of that plan is short.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren! I'm a little confused. Is there or is there not a goal to follow up? There are targets set in PGU. This is the government's response to how you've been working on those goals. These are the answers we have received. That is what we have to discuss. There are no goals in the writing, so I'm a little confused. I think the government has done what Parliament has asked for. They have explained how they work with PGU and with the goals that are there. Now I dropped the last question.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-406	That's right! We are not discussing the NAP today, but it is clear that it is unfortunate. We've been waiting for it in committee. I have not read it; I have no information about what it contains. It is not part of this debate. Maybe it should have been, but it's not.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-407	Madam President, I would like The news yesterday showed a story about Yemen. In a hospital, a mother brought her child to a poor doctor who tried to help the sick and injured with very limited means. The baby who should have had those good, thick, firm thighs had the thinnest little sticks that stuck out of the loosely sitting diaper. My parent's heart burst from this picture and even more when I thought that some of the weapons used in this conflict by the Saudi-led coalition are made here in Sweden. It is a conflict of interests in which the human right to a safe life weighs far too easily. My question to you. Maria Andersson Willner, is: Has the PGU really made the impression that it should do, for example on the permit to export war material to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates?
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio Nilsson, for the opportunity to develop this! I think it is a good example of when PGU actually has an effect. We have now decided on a strengthening of the armaments legislation which introduces a democracy criterion – the democratic status of the recipient country will in future be taken into account in the overall solution along with other factors that speak for and against exports. This has been added, and after a political process it has been adopted by the Riksdag. It is a response to the challenges and problems we have seen with arms exports. Sweden has one of the toughest arms export laws in the world. I think that we must respect the work of this House and the new legislation that is now in force and await the results of the tightening up. If there is no change in application, we will have to take that discussion again and see if we need to strengthen the legislation further. But this is a good example of when PGU works at its best. We are dealing with the conflict of objectives that comes up, and we have strengthened the legislation.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Maria Andersson Willner! I would just like to point out that the PGU has existed since 2003, and the drafting of legislation took a very long time. Was it seven eight years? This legislation, which can actually be the toughest in the world, is still not in favour of an absolute stop. There are many heavy consultation bodies that question the law and believe that there are still loopholes. We in the Left Party support this criticism. There are other conflicts of interests, which I also mentioned in my speech, such as migration policy. Today, there are women who want to ensure that at least they do not become pregnant when they are raped during their flight. After that, they cannot go further, because we have a migration policy that does not start from family reunification, for example. There is another conflict there. What I want to try to highlight in this discussion is that I want PGU and Agenda 2030. On many points we work after that. However, when we come to heavy, important decisions, the PGU and Agenda 2030 fall far too easily to the ground.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-416	Madam President, I would like I am very proud of the consensus on the PGU that exists in this House and of the early efforts that Sweden made in formulating our policy of coherence. I think we can be proud of it in many ways. There are absolutely things left to do. The perfect world is not here. But because we have a clearly formulated policy for global development and because we dare to define target conflicts, we also have the opportunity to deal with them. I do not share the view that PGU falls easily to the ground. I think that PGU helps us make wise decisions, make difficult balances and point out that we can never – even when it's easy to do so – forget the world around us. There is great and broad agreement on the importance of seeing the world as a whole and being able to take responsibility for decisions in this House, in this Parliament, which has an impact worldwide. I think we should be proud of the work done with PGU.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-419	Madam President, I would like In recent days we have been able to read in the newspapers that several of the world's largest and oldest trees, baobab trees or monkeybread trees, as we say in Swedish, have died suddenly and unexpectedly. These are trees that have lived for thousands of years. You know they can be over 2,000 years old. They are 30 meters high and can be as wide as a bus. They have great cultural value and give the savannah a silhouette that many recognize. They are also water reservoirs in case of drought for both humans and animals. Their huge roots can stretch far down and find water when there is otherwise drought everywhere. But now they die, the trees that have seen modern man come. In fact, tree death is a global trend. Here in Europe too, it has worsened significantly since the turn of the millennium. We've got warmer summers and new rainfall patterns. This week we have also been reached by the news that Antarctic glaciers are disappearing faster and faster. We no longer see a doubling, but a triple of how quickly the ice melts in just a decade. When it comes to storms, both torrential rains and hurricanes, that come 500 years apart, we have seen torrential rains coming one year apart and three major hurricanes in one and the same six months. I don't think people in Florida are taking a sigh of relief and saying, "Ha, now we're not getting any more hurricanes in 1,500 years!" I think they're gonna be scared. From California we can see pictures of people painting their lawns green with spray paint because you can't water. Also in Sweden we have yellow lawns and sinning wells, and there are those who talk about emergency slaughter. Bit is added to piece. The changing climate, which we have been talking about for so long, is becoming a real threat. It is not something that is far ahead of time and will come upon us in 50 years' time when we are all dead, as Carl Bildt once said – perhaps one of the world's most careless and irresponsible statements. The climate is changing now, and as we know in this House, it is the poorest who are affected first. When we in the Western world, the United States, Russia, Kenya and India release it, it affects the world. It is not we who are most affected by our emissions. We must never lose the world's poor victims, while at the same time they have contributed the least. The consequences will be felt. In the Western world, we can often figure out how much it costs. Last year's disasters in the United States, for example, cost $300 billion. In poor countries, these estimates are not made, but people adapt, move or flee — or starve. I think what I want to say is clear. Climate change is one of many challenges that shows why PGU is so important. It shows that the world is connected and that we need a coherent, coherent global policy in order to address it and other challenges. It is not good enough to make energy efficiency improvements in the construction sector if, at the same time, we subsidise aviation and fossil fuels. I attended a seminar on Baltic Sea safety on Monday. It was said that it is paradoxical that we are building dikes against increased water flows of fossil-heavy cement. It'll be a loop where we bite our tails. That is the case with many of the global challenges we face. Aid alone is not enough to combat poverty. All policy areas are needed here, and we must move in the same direction. Trade policy must include, as well as fiscal policy, conflict prevention and diplomacy. All of this and more are important tools in the difficult but necessary work to promote sustainable development, to put world poverty into history and to ensure that all people have their rights met in the same way, wherever they live in the world. Madam President, I would like When Parliament clubbed PGU 15 years ago, Sweden was one of the first countries in the world to adopt a coherent policy for fair and global development. All parties in Parliament agreed on a global and fair development. We would, and should, take into account the perspective of poor people and the rights of all people. We also agreed that fundamental conflicts of objectives should be accounted for and addressed. This is a prerequisite for us to have this global policy. We received international appreciation then, and we still do. But since that time, the world has changed in more ways than I can list here. We've seen amazing results. Fewer people are hungry today than it was yesterday. More kids go to school. Fewer women risk their lives at birth, and more people can read. But we also see a decline in democracy. We see new conflict zones, and we see that most environmental curves are pointing in the wrong direction. This if anything shows that PGU is as relevant today as yesterday. I am pleased with the unity that still prevails and that we are discussing here the forms of PGU and the will to be in the PGU, rather than changing it. When the Red-Green Government took office, we announced a new start for PGU. It was seen that the constant conflicts that existed were brake blocks. Coordination between departments was insufficient, and the capacity of the departments was sometimes too low to be able to work offensively with PGU. This is why the government has set up an inter-departmental working group with PGU managers in the management position. This is a key. The responsibility must lie with the boss, not with those who have it on the side. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' Foreign Affairs Council for International Development Cooperation was tasked with leading the management work. The Government has also commissioned each department to develop action plans to see how to work with PGU. They shall contain concrete and practical output targets for the activities and proposals on how to involve authorities responsible for the work. The regular letters to the Riksdag describe the work and provide an in-depth analysis of the thematic areas that we and the Government consider to be particularly important for global development. The aim of this has been to clarify and manage contradictions between the government's objectives in different policy areas. Madam President, I would like The overall result of the work and these measures is now seen: an increase in ambition in the departments. There is a solid systematic approach to how the work is carried out. It is clear that when you reboot it is a bit bumpy in the beginning, but we now see that it is beginning to take shape. There are clear procedures and mechanisms for monitoring. You can see that PGU work has become an integrated perspective. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I'm going over time a little bit. I just have the graduation left. The 2030 Agenda and the 17 global goals adopted in 2015 have led us worldwide to have a fantastic and ambitious guide to a sustainable and just world. Agenda 2030 is the way to the transformation for us here at home, but also for the world. It should also be local. The Government aims to transform Sweden into the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That, if anything, is part of this. We should be an international model in terms of sustainable development, and we should pursue a policy that consistently takes into account poor people's perspectives and human rights. PGU is therefore a key tool for implementing the new global goals. This helps the government to streamline its efforts towards the global goals and minimises the risk of the government's work in different areas becoming mutually counter-productive. We get targets and indicators that things are moving in the right direction. In order for the whole of society to be involved and successful in the work, we must have an action plan. It was adopted yesterday, and I haven't seen it. But I hope that it will make the work even more progress. I see that the work on PGU is a major part of the implementation of Agenda 2030, and I look forward with confidence to the further work.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-444	Madam President, I would like Why does the government not want to be an international model when it comes to anchoring and getting decisions in the Riksdag about the work on Agenda 2030? And why is the letter not possible to follow up? If so much has happened in the government, why is the letter not a story of how far you have reached in relation to the goals that are apparently there somewhere? They are not visible to us in this House or in the committees when we are going to speak or discuss. We get it more like a story about a number of examples. Why, is my question.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the questions! As we have noted here, the policy for global development and Agenda 2030 contain all policy areas and should permeate everything. In a letter that will explain how we work in all areas straight across, one may be a little general in some places and deepen where you want to show examples of how to do it. It would, I believe, be an impossible task to produce every year or every two years a letter covering the whole perspective. What we can see is that the government has made an effort and a fresh start for the PGU, which means that it is now an ongoing, results-oriented work that is followable in all departments, and that other authorities have been given the task of the departments. That work is systematic. Nor can I see that this PGU letter is constructed in any other way than the previous ones. Kerstin Lundgren has been on the committee much longer than I have, so I would like to ask Kerstin Lundgren: what distinguishes this letter from those that other governments have done in connection with their follow-ups? We also hear that Parliament has not been sufficiently involved. With such a large subject as Agenda 2030 and PGU, there are some parts where I can agree and where the committee agrees on Agenda 2030 and the action plan. But in all areas of it, the Riksdag has been incredibly committed. This government is the one that has made the most cross-block agreements. Take the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, which led up to the Climate Act – all politicians were there. This is part of how we achieve the Climate Act. We have the Climate Policy Council. We have an incredible number of things. We have the Energy Agreement, where several different political parties are involved. All these elements are part of how we achieve Agenda 2030. The Parliament also has a mandate to speak, but no other committee has asked to speak here.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-450	Madam President, I would like If the government has made a fresh start, it may be in-house. It is not possible for us to follow it up. Where does the letter state the objectives that the government has set for the relaunch and how they have been achieved? This is the concern. Parliament should be able to review the government. It's our mission. We should be able to follow up and see that you live up to the goals that are set. Where is this seen in the letter? The examples are about working with water issues – so nice! – or working with something else in some other area. This has not been the case in previous letters about PGU. There it has been clear what goals you have and what conflicts of interests may exist, and we have had an opportunity to follow up. One of the problems is that there is no such possibility for this House in today's letter. This is what makes all the committees feel just a little bit involved: you don't really know what to think of a number of examples. Should something else be added? No, that is not the role of Parliament. The Riksdag is to review and make decisions when it comes to governing and providing the foundations for the Government, but the Government has adopted an action plan that the Riksdag has not even seen. The action plan was adopted the day before we have this debate in plenary. This says a lot about the government's relationship with Parliament on this issue.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-453	Madam President, I would like I would like to return the question to Kerstin Lundgren. If you feel so left out in the work that has been done, why not use the opportunities available in committee to make assessments and input on the letter? All committees have had this opportunity, but nothing has chosen to use it. This responsibility also lies with the Riksdag. Then there is a consensus in the committee that there has been too little support in relation to the expectations that existed regarding the Agenda 2030 action plan, but it is not, of course, the subject of the debate today; it is the letter. The Government has given SCB the task of producing follow-up material and statistics on how the work on Agenda 2030 is progressing. There will be an external review which I think we can all follow up. The work is ongoing and continuing. I think we can have confidence that the work is going the way we want it to go.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-456	Madam President, I would like These are very large and broad areas which are compressed in a letter based on somewhat vague objectives. But let me start with what should be central to us as democratic politicians, namely the broad attack on democratic values that is taking place in many parts of the world. Democracy is challenged in what is its heartland, where democracy, so to speak, has been born, developed, become strong and characterized the societies, not least in Western Europe. We see a decline in several countries in Eastern Europe that have been democracies for a number of decades since the fall of the Soviet Union. Then there are authoritarian states and partly non-free countries where authoritarian development is seen. Turkey is an example of this. This is very worrying. Basically, the world order that I, as a Liberal, want to see is that of adherence to agreements, that there are global regulations and that there are elected parliaments and an independent, free press and so on. If the cornerstones of our democratic civilization are challenged, it is very serious. This is linked to a number of other problems in the world, not least military conflicts in Syria, Libya, Yemen and so on. They, in turn, give birth to migratory flows and waves of refugees which in various ways trigger right-wing populist counter-reactions in our countries. When looking at development policies and issues related to global development, it is important to see how these different processes interact in different ways: Economics, trade, conflicts, aid and migration interact. In addition, it is an important condition for our Swedish and European democracy to function that European cooperation also works. We now see how it becomes more and more strained. We had a severe financial crisis in Europe earlier. We had the major refugee crisis in 2015. A large Member State is now negotiating to leave the European Union. We are facing a significant challenge internally within the European Union to make cooperation work better. There are a lot of challenges that in different ways overlap and affect each other and so on. Sweden has had a policy of global development since 2002 or 2003. The purpose of this matter is, of course, to achieve coherence in this area in various ways. I note that the letter is somewhat fuzzy. The action plan came only yesterday, and then it disappeared and then came back. It is a bit difficult to take on board the fundamental discussions about the PGU and its future in this. Broadly speaking, I see that there is support in the Riksdag for an ambitious and long-term policy for global development. I think, however, that we must be humble and see that there are also a great many conflicts of interests here. They are also based on the fact that we are eight parties in Parliament. I listened to the Left Party's – their speakers are not left here in the Chamber – long enumerations of everything that does not work. She wondered why we have arms exports and that there is war when we have PGU. But we must be humble and realise that just because the Riksdag has decided on a policy of global development, it does not mean that all conflicts of interest in politics – between right and left, liberals and socialists on various issues – just disappear. I represent a party that is a strong supporter of European cooperation. At the same time, there are parties in Parliament who want Sweden to leave the EU. Then we cannot fully agree on what promotes development in the world. We must be humbled by the fact that there will always be conflicts of interest. They are discussed in Parliament all the time, in all the reports, debates, legislative proposals and other things. However, this report does not really cover it, if you say so. Having said that, we can add the letter to the file.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-465	Madam President, I would like It is not the park that is most dangerous for a woman or a child, but it is the home environment. It is not unknown people, but those close to them who are most dangerous. It is of course extra traumatic and threatening. It is important to investigate the crimes against children and adults in order to see a pattern. What happened? Or rather, what did not happen that could have prevented the crime? How will society, healthcare, social services and schools be able to look behind the scenes to prevent violence against children and women? The Government proposes in the bill Investigations to prevent certain injuries and death certain changes. The investigation activities will be extended to cover more cases than the current legislation says. Cases in which children have been subjected to particularly serious assault by a related person or previously related person of the child shall also be investigated. Cases involving adults where the offence is attempted, prepared or conspiracy to murder or manslaughter shall be investigated if the offence has been committed by a close or previously related person. It's very important to see the course of events. The Left Party welcomes the fact that the government now chooses to present a bill which takes steps towards a more systematic investigation of certain injuries and deaths. It is important that these crimes are investigated for many reasons – for the individual, for relatives and also for society as a whole to draw conclusions. Many children are unprotected in their homes. The fact that more children are being investigated with the clear intention to prevent violence is extremely good, given that Sweden has now adopted the Convention on the Rights of the Child into law. Article 19 states that countries shall take all appropriate measures to protect children against all forms of violence. For several years, the Left Party has put forward proposals in the Riksdag to set up an accident commission to review any case where a woman has been murdered or beaten to death by a related man. A similar legislation was introduced in 2007 for children killed by relatives. It was therefore positive that the Riksdag decided that deadly violence between related adults should also be investigated. The purpose of the investigative activities shall be to provide the basis for proposals for measures to prevent the exposure of women and men to violence or other abuse by related or previously related persons. Such violence is very common, unfortunately. All cases of fatal violence should be covered, regardless of gender of victim or perpetrator. In 2014, the National Board of Health and Welfare published a first report on adults who have died as a result of crimes committed by a close or previously related person. In the report, the National Board of Health and Welfare points out that the limited number of cases makes it difficult to draw general conclusions, but there were some shortcomings. Common shortcomings are that social services have known that women have been victims of violence but have chosen not to investigate this, that interventions such as placement on sheltered housing do not start from the individual's needs and that collaboration has been inadequate or non-existent, both internally within social services and externally. We've got some work to do. 269 women have been killed by their husband or ex-husband in the 21st century. At least 16 women were killed last year, 2017. The level has been the same throughout the 21st century. Suicide as a result of psychological abuse by a loved one is not covered by the new law. We in the Left believe that both suicide and suicide where there is a suspicion that the death was preceded by threats and pressure, for example of an honorary nature, should be investigated. The majority of the respondents have also criticised the government's decision to leave suicide out of the proposal. The Public Health Agency reports that an average of 129 children and adolescents aged 15 to 24 committed suicide each year between 2012 and 2014. As I said, there is much that can be done. It is extremely important that suicides should also be investigated with a view to identifying the real cause of the death and thus ultimately preventing the harm of children and women. This view is not only ours, Madam President, but it is shared by both Save the Children as well as the Swedish Women's Lobby, Roks and the Children's Ombudsman. They have referred to this in their referrals. The Left Party agrees with what the Ombudsman for Children writes: Violence and violations are contributing to suicide or unclear deaths. Whatever the cause, every child's suicide is a serious failure for society, and in case of unclear deaths and suicides there may be systemic gaps in society's protection of children that can be improved. That is what we want to get at by seeing what society can do more to bring down suicide deaths. Nor are suicides suspected of being the result of honour-related repression proposed to be subject to investigation, as the Left Party has also exercised about. It is unfortunate and should be included in the bill. The Swedish Women's Lobby has also drawn attention to the fact that many are left out with the present proposal, not least those who live in an honorary context. The Swedish Women's Lobby writes as follows: The women's shelters experience that violence that takes place in the name of honour can be done by acts that are not included in either existing or proposed regulation. Violence can take place through pressure, threats, coercion and suicide. This is particularly true of the high-profile cases of murder by cases from balconies where pre-trial investigations are not initiated because it is considered to be an accident or suicide at an early stage. These children very much need protection. The proposals put in the bill are those requested by the Left Party. We think it will be a good piece of legislation, but with what I have said before, we would have liked the government to have come back with proposals for legislation that would involve suicide in the investigation procedure. I support the committee's proposal in the report, but I also call for reservation 1. Thank you, this was my last little speech for this season!
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-483	Madam President, I would like Death investigations are an important tool in the work to improve society's ability to prevent violence in close relationships with both children and adults. This bill now proposes to extend the law on investigations into certain deaths to more cases than those involving the death of children and adults. This means that there may be more to it than death investigations. Cases where a child has been subjected to serious or particularly serious assault shall be covered if the offence has been committed by a close relative or a former close relative. In the case of adults, trials, preparation or conspiracy of murder or manslaughter shall be investigated whether it has been committed by a loved one or a previously related person. Much of this is in line with what the Liberals have done in the past when it comes to increasing protection and extending the concept of crime victims. For us Liberals, it is therefore important that children who have experienced violence should also be included. In this context, it should be noted that for children, children's development and children's mental health, mental abuse is just as bad as physical abuse. Like several children's rights organisations – Gapf, Never forget Pela and Fadime, the Östergötland County Administrative Board and several other investigations – we believe that the investigation should be extended to more crimes than those proposed by the government now, namely suicide, aggravated rape where the perpetrator is related or previously related, and genital mutilation. In cases where investigations under this Act are carried out in respect of offences against an adult and where there are children who have experienced the violence, the investigation shall also cover the measures taken or could have been taken to protect the child. This also applies when an investigation is carried out against a child in which other children have experienced the violence. As has already been mentioned here in the speaker's chair today, the problem of honour is something that has received more attention in recent years. This is also something that we in the Liberals take very seriously. Unfortunately, we see that the issue of honour will not be covered in the proposals that are pending when the concept of family members is as narrow as it is. Several consultation bodies have pointed out that the concept of family members should be extended and clarified in order to ensure that honour-related violence is included in the investigation activities, as we Liberals also think. The Government states in the bill that in previous preparatory work there are statements that the concept of a close relative should not be interpreted too narrowly. We Liberals, however, believe that this is not quite enough; instead, it should be stated that the concept of a close relative should be interpreted broadly enough to cover this. Something else that needs to be raised is that in the same way as the person investigating child matters should have special child competence, special competence is needed regarding honorary issues. These are the structures you need to know in order to investigate precisely this type of crime. Madam President, I would like The Liberals have argued in previous motions that investigations should be directed against the actions of authorities in individual cases, such as an accident commission or a lex Lotta. Reviewing the individual case involves assessing how the police and prosecutors have acted, but also what, for example, social services and care have done. You need to be able to examine what was known in advance about both the perpetrator and the victim. Today, for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare cannot take part in forensic investigations or other documents concerning an perpetrator. In response to a written question from my party colleague Roger Haddad, the Minister of Justice said that the government was positive about the proposal to introduce a lex Lotta. Unfortunately, however, such a proposal has not been prepared in the context of this dossier. We regret that, for this would have been a golden opportunity to get through just a lex Lotta. Madam President, I would like Last Wednesday we took a historic decision in this House. It was an opportunity when it felt extra big and important to be on the green button. We decided that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should become a law. The fact that more children with this proposal are being investigated with the clear intention of preventing violence is obviously positive from all aspects. One of them is Article 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states that those who have signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child shall take all appropriate measures to protect children against all forms of violence. This is where even the psychological abuse comes in. In view of Wednesday's decision, I find it a little sad that the proposal is not otherwise more clearly linked to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think that would have been a strength in this proposal and also demonstrated the seriousness of making the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Finally, the proposal is largely in line with what we Liberals have been exercising in the past, and we are in favour of it. On some points, we believe that the government should have gone further, but basically this is a good proposal. It is a good proposal to strengthen children's rights and ultimately prevent children from being subjected to lethal violence or abuse. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report, but also reservations 2 and 3.
i-19cccf5ff18ec1c5-498	Madam President, I would like Every time a child or an adult dies as a result of violence, it is a tremendous tragedy. In particular, I believe that we all feel about children and whether the crime has been committed by the person who should actually protect and care for the child, although all violence is, of course, reprehensible. When this unimaginable happens, we all start to think, no matter where we are and what we do, whether we are employed in health care, social services or the police and whether we are politicians, residents of the neighbourhood or read about the terrible things in the media. As politicians, I believe that we all want to do everything we can to prevent and prevent such things from happening at all. I know a lot of things are being done in society, but much more needs to be done. Since 2008, the National Board of Health and Welfare will investigate cases where a child has died as a result of a crime. In 2012, this law was extended to include cases where an adult died as a result of a crime committed by a related or former family member. Since the entry into force of this Act, 46 child matters and 52 adult matters have been investigated. During the period 2016 – 2017, there were 6 child matters and 21 adult investigations. What is being proposed today is that more cases than those where children and adults have died should be investigated. In the case of adults, cases where the offence consists of trial, preparation or conspiracy of murder shall be investigated whether the offence has been committed by a related or previously related person. In the case of children, an investigation shall be carried out in the event of serious or particularly serious assault if the offence has been committed by a loved one. If the offence constitutes an attempt, preparation or conspiracy to commit murder, manslaughter or child abduction, it shall be investigated regardless of the relationship the offender has or has had with the child. In order to clarify what the investigation activities will lead to, the Government now wants to make it clear that the purpose of the investigations is to provide the Government with the basis for making decisions on measures aimed at preventing child harm or women and men being subjected to violence by a loved one. The investigation shall clarify the course of events that preceded such an event, the possible causes of the event and the measures taken or could have been taken to protect the child or the adult. It can be noted that the number of cases investigated under the current legislation is small and that it is very difficult, based on the conclusions of this particular investigation, to draw conclusions at system level and, in general, to improve prevention. According to the Government, the expanded investigation activities will lead to approximately 80 more cases per year to be investigated and added to today's 15 and thus provide a better basis for conclusions and basis for future decisions. We will simply be able to identify shortcomings in society's safety net more easily and thus be better able to do something about them. The National Board of Health and Welfare will continue to be responsible for the investigations but may, if necessary, employ experts and experts. On the question of what is to be covered by the investigations, the majority of the committee shares the view that there is a limit to the number of investigations that can be handled under this law without jeopardising the law's requirements for efficiency and effectiveness. As regards the concept of close relatives, it is the definition of what is meant by close relatives that governs the cases to be investigated. Changing the concept of related parties in the Act on the Investigation of Certain Damages and Deaths will not be possible without further investigation of the consequences of such a change. However, it is considered in the preparatory work to the Criminal Code that the concept should not be interpreted too narrowly. There, it is reasoned that close relatives mainly, but not only, refer to a number of listed persons. Of course, it is extremely important for the government to follow this issue closely in order to see as soon as possible whether there is a need for further investigation of the concept of family members in order to change the concept later on. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, every case of violence committed by a loved one is a case too much. I am quite convinced that all of us, regardless of party and government, really want to do with all our heart what we can to prevent children from getting hurt and at worst from dying because of violence. This change of law is a small but very important piece of the puzzle along the way in order to develop prevention more effectively. As this is also my last moment in the speaker's chair for the term of office, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my committee colleagues and the President and the Bureau for this term of office. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
