i-01993c47c3636eac-4	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me whether I intend to close or reform the Employment Service in view of the poor results. Since the government took office, over 250 000 more people have been in work. About 70 per cent of this increase has been added to those born abroad. The labour market is strong. The strong demand for labour has led to an increasing shortage of labour with the required skills, while the number of unemployed who are further away from the labour market is rising. Improving labour market matching requires action in several policy areas, not least in labour market policies. There, the Employment Service plays an important role. Since the government took office, Arbetsförmedlingen has had access to more tools and better conditions to carry out its mission. The labour market policy framework has been simplified, conditions for local cooperation have been improved and opportunities for unemployed people to train have been strengthened. The government's governance of Arbetsförmedlingen has a clear focus on results. Arbetsförmedlingen's results are measured, among other things, based on the agency's objectives in the regulation letter. One goal for 2017 was to increase transitions to work or studies during the year compared to 2016. This was not achieved by the Authority. Also, in terms of transitions to work or studies for persons with disabilities with reduced work capacity, the goal is not achieved to improve results compared to 2016. However, it is gratifying to note that youth unemployment, which is now the lowest in 14 years, continues to decline. The Employment Service stated in December 2017 that the 90-day guarantee is now reached. The employment services also show positive results for the start-up assignment in terms of transitions to work and studies for both women and men. In December 2017, transitions to work and studies were the highest ever. More than 38 per cent of the participants were in work or training 90 days after leaving the start-up position. The Government decided on 22 June 2017 on additional directives for the Labour Market Investigation. In accordance with the Riksdag's announcement, the investigation will also make proposals on how those parts of the Employment Service's assignments that do not involve the exercise of authority can be extended to other actors and on how the other state commitment should be organised.
i-01993c47c3636eac-10	Mr President, I would like to The Labour Minister devotes most of his response to praising himself for the stronger labour market in recent years. But ruling a country in a strong boom does not require much of a government. The jobs come on their own. However, we have unusually high unemployment for a boom, and Sweden has fallen in the EU's unemployment ranking from the tenth place during the Alliance to the fifteenth place today. The government's promise of the EU's lowest unemployment rate is becoming less and less realistic. Over the years, both during the time of the Llian government and during today's government, I have met with many employment agencies and visited many of the Arbetsförmedlingen's offices. I know that the staff are trying to do a good job, often under severe pressure and difficult conditions. However, it is also clear that the Employment Service is currently not working well in relation to the resources it uses. Repeated measurements also have a low level of confidence among both the general public and employers. The employment agency has also been given a broader mandate, and today's labour market is quite different from 20 years ago. More people need more support from Arbetsförmedlingen than before. This requires that we have an employment service that meets today's labour market, that efforts are sharpened and that the toolbox is best used. The Minister for Labour himself points out in his reply that the Employment Service does not achieve the goals set by the government itself. Employers' contacts also work badly, and all the time news comes that Arbetsförmedlingen has problems with procurement, work environment and trust. The Alliance government appointed an investigation to review Arbetsförmedlingen in February 2014. It was disturbed by the review since the mid-1990s. The investigation was a broad review that would turn all the stones around. It would review, among other things, the organisation and governance of the Employment Service, labour market policy efforts and how complementary actors can be better used. The investigation would also review whether parts of the business could be opened up to competition. This investigation was stopped by today's government as early as the beginning of 2015. After two announcements in the Labour Market Committee, the government set up a new investigation in 2016, but this time the issue of opening up to competition had not been included. In addition, the investigation involves a significant delay as it should not be completed until January 2019, three years later than the Alliance had planned. At the beginning of 2017, a new announcement was made that the Government would give the Labour Market Investigation additional directives to develop proposals on how those parts of the Public Employment Service's tasks that do not involve the exercise of public authority can be posted to other actors in the labour market and on how the public commitment should otherwise be organised. There was also a KU notification on this issue. New directives were finally adopted in mid-2017, i.e. three years into this term of office. Then finally came the investigation that the Alliance launched as early as 2014. Although the Social Democrats in the election movement promised in 2014 to re-launch and reform the Employment Service, this term of office has been four lost years in terms of improving matching in the labour market. This costs Sweden through reduced competitiveness for Swedish companies that fail to recruit staff. This leads to increased costs for society and less integration. I lack clarity from the Minister for Labour as to what she intends to do to change today's inefficient employment services. Just referring to an investigation due to be completed in 2019 is not good enough.
i-01993c47c3636eac-23	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jan Ericson, for a very important interpellation! There are two groups that I meet that are dissatisfied with Arbetsförmedlingen. One is an employer, who does not turn to Arbetsförmedlingen when seeking labour. The second, the group I meet that is most dissatisfied, is a job seeker. It is job seekers who do not feel that they receive the support and help they need. I took note of the Minister's reply to my colleague Jan Ericson. Self-righteousness is a word you could use about it, but I intend to stick to reality.
i-01993c47c3636eac-26	At the same time, when I'm out on company visits, I meet entrepreneurs who say: Where are the unemployed? One company told me that they applied for employees for relatively... I don't say simple tasks, but I say it doesn't require an academic degree to work in a restaurant and do the dishes. 14 000 people are unemployed in Gävleborg, and a restaurant could not find the employees that were then required. This is a failure, a fundamental failure. It takes a proper conversion. The most angry critic before the 2014 election was Ylva Johansson. I followed her debates. She clearly said that the Employment Service had to change. She made it clear that the match didn't work. Then Ylva Johansson became Minister of State. She has now had three years to change the Arbetsförmedlingen. Nothing's happened. Nothing has been done. The problem remains. Since 2002 I have had the opportunity to follow the recruitment survey that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise does and have read it every time it has arrived. I note that since 2002 Gävleborg County has been at its peak in Sweden when it comes to unemployment. But they have also been at the top of the list of counties where most employers say they do not find labour. There are therefore 14 000 reasons for redeploying Arbetsförmedlingen. Less does not deserve those who see this interpellation debate at SVT Forum right now. If you belong to the 14,000 unemployed in Gävleborg County, I understand your frustration that we need to make the match work better. Last night an employer in southern Hälsingland called me and said something like this: Beckman, I read in the newspaper about all the unemployed – where are they? He had for several days tried to get in touch with Arbetsförmedlingen without succeeding. I had a name for Arbetsförmedlingen in Gävle, which I gave him – an amazing employee that I know and who has worked there for many years. I said: Call person XX, who works at Arbetsförmedlingen in Gävle, and maybe he can help you, even if he works in Gävle and you have your company in southern Hälsingland. Have the Swedish people discovered that the Arbetsförmedlingen does not work? I note that Ylva Johansson has 100% confidence in the Public Employment Service, while according to a recent survey, 1 percent of the Swedish people had confidence in the Public Employment Service. It goes without saying that you cannot have a system that costs 80 billion, where we have 14 000 job seekers in Gävleborg and at the same time employers who do not find labour. I believe that the Government should be sleepless and squirt out political proposals to resolve this.
i-01993c47c3636eac-35	Mr President, I would like to Several of the points raised by Jan Ericson and Lars Beckman are true. There are many talented, committed employees within Arbetsförmedlingen. There are also many employees who are frustrated that they have not been able to make full use of their skills for many years. A reform of the Employment Service is therefore necessary. It is also true that many employers are surprised that they do not find labour despite the fact that so many are still unemployed. Gävleborg County has a high unemployment rate but is also one of the counties where unemployment during this term has decreased most. There are thus significant challenges for the Public Employment Service, and it would be completely wrong to sit still in the boat. Major changes need to be made within Arbetsförmedlingen. Happily, major changes are also underway and launched within the Swedish Public Employment Service. I would like to give a little warning to those who listen to the debate about too simple solutions. We remember what it was like during the last parliamentary term, when it was governed by incessant directives from Fredsgatan in Stockholm. It was about how different details within Arbetsförmedlingen should be handled. This did not call for follow-up. It became a detailed regulation that became completely unmanageable for the work mediators, who will have room for their professional judgement. They need more freedom, not more pointers from Fredsgatan and the Government Office. During the previous government they started with start-ups and job coaches – nor was it a system that worked. It was almost a fiasco and could also, it turned out, be exploited by many rogue and even criminal actors. I think it is good if the Public Employment Service uses complementary actors, and so do they. You've become more professional in the way you do it. One can rank better, which I think is necessary in order to get the best out of the complementary players. This is an area that Arbetsförmedlingen has developed and continues to develop in a good way. Employers' contacts are something new, as I have told them to work with. During the previous government they did not work with matching and employer contacts; they do now. Good skills are being built up precisely as regards contacts with employers, and a larger reorganisation is even planned to better meet employers' needs. It was also mentioned that there have been problems with procurement, and that is true. However, I object that it would be because the Public Employment Service would in some way be incompetent in making procurements. I would like to say that it is the opposite. The employment agency has almost all its procurements overtested, but these are going through extremely much – to a much greater extent than for other public purchasers who have their procurements overtested. I think this indicates that the Public Employment Service does, after all, carry out proper procurements, but the system as it stands today does in my opinion mean very far-reaching possibilities for review, which risks slowing down the work. All warning signs of low trust or lack of results in the Public Employment Service must be taken very seriously, and so do I. I have been criticised for having aired this publicly, but I think it is important to do so. Where I am not satisfied with the results, I think it is my responsibility as Minister for Employment to say this publicly. But there is no reason to fail the entire Employment Service. The interpellation calls for reforms, and they are in progress.
i-01993c47c3636eac-45	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with what the Minister for Labour says about the fact that we have many good employees at the Employment Service; we do. The problem is that they don't come to their own and don't feel that they can do the job they could actually do. However, I do not share the view of the Minister for Labour that the Alliance did not develop the Employment Service. We made many reforms. Not everyone was well, and some had to be adjusted along the way. But 17 years ago, we made changes to the Arbetsförmedlingen. Much of this remains today and is what today's Minister for Labour has chosen to maintain. So it couldn't have been that bad. Nor can anyone complain about the results of the financial crisis in terms of keeping unemployment down. The Alliance did a really good job. But if the Minister for Labour thinks that changes are needed, why did she stop in 2015 the investigation that the Alliance set up in 2014? Then she let nothing happen until last summer when a new investigation was started, which will do the same thing as the one we started in 2014. Mr President, I would like to I know that the Minister for Labour visited Australia in early 2016 and, among other things, visited a Centrelink office and private matching actors in Canberra and Sydney– I have been doing some research. I was in Sydney myself in November of the same year and visited similar activities. Australia has demonstrably succeeded in its solution, which has divided its activities. A public authority is responsible for mapping the unemployed, procurement and evaluation of the actors involved in developing the unemployed and matching them with job vacancies. The complementary actors may be non-profit organisations as well as private companies and public operators. Everyone involved in Australia seemed to think that the system works well, and it has become increasingly better at evaluating and grading these actors and finding a replacement model that works, counteracts cheating and acts as a driver in the right direction. From the moderate side, we have partly had the Australian model as a model for our proposals regarding future Employment Service for those who are reasonably close to the labour market and most need support with matching. We believe that Arbetsförmedlingen in its current form should be phased out and replaced by a smaller and sharper government actor, Jobbcenter. The public mission is refined and focused on identifying the job-seekers' needs for action and assessing work capacity, as well as, of course, contracting and following up a limited number of established matching actors, which are known to show good results. Matching actors also receive funds for skills-enhancing measures that can equip the job seeker. Job centres retain responsibility for those who are far from the labour market and are mainly in need of regular education, where closer cooperation with municipalities is needed. The advantages of our model are the same as the ones we were able to share in Australia. Matching becomes more effective because stakeholders focus on those who are reasonably close to the labour market and can also specialise in different groups of job seekers, industries and professions. I can see how new matching actors can be created. For example, trade unions and employers in a particular sector can work together, or they can be created to specialise in different groups of job seekers. This specialisation can build a strong network of contacts, increase the efficiency of employer contacts and offer a much sharper employment service. You just get more matching for the money. Ylva Johansson recently said in Ekot's Saturday interview that she does not want to close the Arbetsförmedlingen in the current form but wants to make sure that the business works. How does she expect this to happen? Various governments have for several decades tried to streamline and sharpen today's Public Employment Service with rather poor results. What miracle cure does Ylva Johansson intend to use? I would also like to ask Ylva Johansson about her impression of her own visit to Australia and of the Australian model.
i-01993c47c3636eac-57	Mr President, I would like to Confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen is 100 percent with Ylva Johansson but only 1 percent with the Swedish people. Three years with Ylva Johansson as responsible Minister is three lost years for the 14 000 unemployed in Gävleborg. I also believe that the Employment Service must be divided. It is unreasonable for Swedish companies and public employers to pay twice for their recruitments. First, they pay 80 billion for Arbetsförmedlingen. But when they are going to recruit, and thus should be able to turn to the Employment Service, they can turn to temporary agencies. This means that Swedish companies and employers have to pay twice: first 80 000 million for Arbetsförmedlingen and then once more for the employee you need. If you look at the recruitment survey that has been carried out by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, you can see that about six out of ten employers have recruited through informal contacts. You use the internet, Linkedin and various services. That's good. But of course you should call failure a failure. In Gävleborg County you are at the top when it comes to unemployment, while at the same time you are at the top when it comes to employers not finding labour. If you listen to this is one of these 14 000 unemployed in Gävleborg County, you should know that after the election, when there comes a new moderate-led alliance government, we will do everything to make sure that the match works better in Sweden, so that you will get a job.
i-01993c47c3636eac-61	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the previous government made many reforms for the Employment Service. Most of them were directly harmful to Arbetsförmedlingen. Labour market training, for example, was reformed: in the past 70% got a job, but now it came down to such low levels that the impact of labour market training could be judged to be zero. That was an effect of the changes made during the last parliamentary term, during the previous government. They also invested in f as 3, which was a veritable fiasco, with pilots and coaches who were rightly severely criticized and now no longer exist. I have to disappoint both the listeners and my fellow debaters by stating that there is no miracle cure for a well-functioning labour market, but there are workable policies, and that is what we should use. The employment agency has challenges but is on the right track. Major reforms are being made and improved results are being achieved in some respects, but not in all. But I expect it to be achieved in all respects too. It is on the way to becoming a more professional authority, which is excellent, with greater scope for those working in the Public Employment Service to use their profession. I'll answer the questions. I have visited Australia and studied their systems. I have also visited the United Kingdom, which also has a system of few but good complementary actors that it trusts. The systems are very different. In Australia, there is no employment service for the type of people we normally provide jobs to in our employment service, but it is an extension of the social services. Those who get a share of operators are matched in Sweden by those who have supply support. There are things that work well in Australia. They have become good at the ranking system, I would say, and the Arbetsförmedlingen has also learned from that. There are a limited number of stakeholders. It seems to be a success path not to have a thousand actors, as the Public Employment Service had under the previous government. What can be criticised is that over 25% of the time is spent on administration and control. It's a very large percentage. One can question whether it is correctly used that such a large part of the time spent on the work mediators in Australia is spent on control and administration. But perhaps the biggest objection is that in Australia there is no place where the employer can turn when you want help with recruitment, for this is not the mission you have. You work with people who have equivalent support to get them into practice or work; you do not primarily work to meet employers' needs. The UK has a different model, where it has a government employment service in its early days – it's one or possibly two years; I don't remember for sure – and then if you're long-term unemployed, you move on to a complementary player who has to equip and match. This model is closer to what could be a working model in Sweden. When one holds the government together for those who are a little closer, it becomes possible to have a way in for the employer. I think it is important to improve services to employers, and this is what the Employment Service works with. Then it is important that there is a way in. I do not think that we have reached that point sufficiently yet. But to split it up with even more players for employers to turn to is not, I think, the right way to go.
i-01993c47c3636eac-69	Mr President, I would like to I think that Lars Beckman describes it well when he points out that it costs 80 billion a year to finance Arbetsförmedlingen and that many, both companies and job seekers, have to pay for this service without getting back what they could expect. The employment agency thus costs almost twice as much as the Swedish defence. I do not think the result is proportionate to that. The Minister for the Market criticises Phase 3. I would say that f as 3 is actually one of the best things we have done for the long-term unemployed. What the government has done now has not been very successful – you have thrown people out of f as 3, so that they go home and do nothing. Many people are very disappointed about this. I do not think that f as 3 deserves the criticism it received during our government's time. As far as training is concerned, I would like to point out that we transferred much of the training to the regular education system instead. Those who were close to the labour market went on normal, regular training with good results, while the complicated dossiers with those who were very far from the labour market remained in labour market training. Therefore, the results of labour market training during the Alliance and the previous years cannot be compared. As far as Australia and the United Kingdom are concerned, I agree with the Minister for Labour. We will take advantage of the best parts of what are in those countries. This is what we are doing on the moderate side. We think, for example, that the matching should apply to everyone looking for work, and we think it is very important to have employer contacts, which may not have always worked so well in those countries. But we believe that you can have the Australian model and the British model as an idea and an idea when developing the Swedish Public Employment Service. I note that the past few years have been four years lost in terms of matching the labour market. That's why we need a new government.
i-01993c47c3636eac-74	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps we should correct: What happened under the bourgeois government was cutting down on regular education. There were major reductions in regular education, something that we are building up again in the case of, for example, vocational adult and Komvux, which corresponds to many of the training courses that may also be available in labour market training. In labour market training, the regulatory framework was changed so that instead of training those who had the chance to get jobs, they would send those who were farthest from the labour market to labour market training, and many of them did not get jobs. Let's stick to the right things. I'm sure a lot of people who listen will find it strange that the Arbetsförmedlingen would cost 80 billion. It doesn't. We don't have such expensive authorities. On the other hand, the compensation for the unemployed costs, and it is administered by Arbetsförmedlingen. It is compensation that goes to individuals who are unemployed. That is a large part of the resources. So it is not the authority that costs that much money. Mr President, I would like to We will certainly have to come back to the discussion on the Employment Service. It is a large and important authority with a large and terribly important mission and whose results must be improved. That is why it must continue to be reformed. But it is also an authority that is on the right track. I can conclude by saying that it was interesting to hear Jan Ericson say that Phase 3 was one of the best things the old government did. If this was the best thing you can think about what else you did.
i-01993c47c3636eac-78	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I view the negative consequences that affect the Swedish Armed Forces' day-to-day exercise and incident preparedness because the Swedish Maritime Administration is unable to deliver sea rescue in a satisfactory way. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked me if I am prepared to work within my area of responsibility for the return of sea rescue under the Swedish Armed Forces. The basic rule for military operations is that search and rescue resources shall be available for operations in the area of planned flight operations. The Swedish Armed Forces' need for rescue operations with rescue helicopters is carried out by the Swedish Maritime Administration and regulated in accordance with the cooperation agreement that exists between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration. The collaboration agreement includes agreement on, for example, the availability of rescue helicopters, helicopter category, geographical base and costs. The Swedish Armed Forces are primarily in need of the Swedish Maritime Administration to meet the conditions of the joint cooperation agreement. Negotiations are currently under way on working time agreements within the Swedish Maritime Administration. The parties agree so far on the principles of a new working time agreement. Renegotiations are not a matter for the government. Similarly, the cooperation agreement is an issue between the authorities. The government is closely following developments. However, it is not currently appropriate to implement any organisational changes regarding the search and rescue service. Should such a change occur, it needs to be preceded by thorough studies and analyses.
i-01993c47c3636eac-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. For my part, I have been committed for a long time to helicopter rescue. It started in 2012, when I read the investigation that had been done about maritime cooperation and pointed out that it is tricky for Sweden that it is the Swedish Armed Forces, the police and the Swedish Maritime Administration. In addition, the Coast Guard has an aircraft organisation. This could be done better and more effectively. Mr President, I would like to Then follows a history of the Swedish Maritime Administration, which has also been highlighted here in the Riksdag. Instead of listening to and taking on this, they hurried and obtained their own helicopters in strange ways, with contracts that could be called into question. Then the problems have just continued. It could hardly have escaped anyone how badly the Swedish Maritime Administration handled the responsibility for the rescue helicopters and how serious the situation is, with the risk of human life. It should be in the interest of the Minister for Defence to ensure that the rescue operations carried out by the sea work. At present, the Swedish Armed Forces' exercise activities, especially the Air Force's exercise activities, are very negatively affected by the operational limitations imposed by the Swedish Maritime Administration due to, firstly, higher weather levels than the Swedish Armed Forces, i.e. the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters have greater limitations than the Swedish Armed Forces. Unfortunately, this has been demonstrated on a number of occasions recently in the context of sharp sea rescue operations, when helicopters have not even started against those in need, despite the fact that there has been a risk of life. Secondly, one or more helicopter bases are closed at regular intervals, thereby radically reducing preparedness and the possibility of coming to the rescue within the required time limits. A few weeks ago, Mr President, three out of five bases were closed for several days. During that time there was also bad weather with wave heights of up to six meters. This means that sea rescue with ships and boats was out of the question. Helicopter was the only option. This seriously affected not only the safety of shipping in general, but also the ability of the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out both exercises and sharp operations. If one ever needs this opportunity, it is just at such times. It is a little strange in itself that the Swedish Maritime Administration then says that it would have contacted the neighbouring countries if it had been necessary. They can therefore fly, but not the Swedish helicopter-borne sea rescue. The Visby base has been more or less permanently closed for a long time – this despite the fact that according to the agreement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration there will be five bases, of which Visby is one. The Swedish Maritime Administration therefore does not meet the requirements. In addition, Visby is perhaps the most important base for the Swedish Armed Forces, when a comprehensive exercise is carried out in this area both at sea and in the air. When the Visby base is closed, there is not even a theoretical possibility that the Swedish Maritime Administration can maintain its promised time requirements for rescue within 90 minutes if the person in need is east of Gotland. The Swedish Maritime Administration, for its part, claims that this time requirement is met without a helicopter in Visby. Thus, it is expected that there will be boats available. The risk that bad weather does not always allow sea rescue with boats and ships to be avoided. During yesterday the Swedish Maritime Administration was informed that its activities will be reviewed by the Haveri Commission. Unfortunately, this is a clear proof that the operation is not working as intended.
i-01993c47c3636eac-91	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to defend the various events referred to by Mr Oscarsson in any way. I just want to say that the situation is such that for more than ten years there has been a collaboration agreement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration that regulates the Swedish Armed Forces' need for air rescue. It is very important that that agreement is fulfilled and that it works. With regard to the issue of the Swedish Armed Forces taking over sea rescue under rapid conditions, I would just like to say this: Today there are neither material nor human conditions for carrying out this type of operation within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is for this reason that this cooperation agreement is in place, and the Swedish Armed Forces are paying the Swedish Maritime Administration to maintain the rescue capacity. If you are going to make a change, it must be thorough and thorough analysis, and that is nothing that you do in quick circumstances or in a quick turn. One problem has been the negotiation that has been going on for almost a year between the parties, which concerns the operational personnel of the Swedish Maritime Administration's rescue helicopter operations. Today we have reached an agreement in principle, which has been presented. The agreement is based on several elements. It is about staffing, i.e. how the Swedish Maritime Administration covers with staff to secure the availability of five bases and with a system that is flexible and can endure both planned and unplanned staff absences. It is also about compensation for the flying operative staff and salary supplements to compensate for increased working hours. To enable the schedule, additional crew members will be recruited. These are the basic principles of the agreement. However, the hearing is not yet closed. However, it is agreed to apply the old working time agreement during a transitional period in order to create an orderly transition. Here's the idea of making it work again. What the government has in mind is that the agreement in force should also be fulfilled, i.e. that it should be possible to start within 15 minutes and carry out a search in the area where a possible accident has occurred within 90 minutes. There have been many tours over the years on this issue. I am simply stating that this is where we are now. It is extremely important for the Authority to ensure that this works. When I say that the government is closely following this, the government is. That is a very clear message. So I take the question very seriously. The Swedish Armed Forces are also taking the situation very seriously. Related to any shortcomings that may exist in this context, I would like to say that it is of course planning its activities in relation to risks and other things. It is a situation that has not been satisfactory and needs to be addressed. I assume that you will live up to the agreement that you will enter into and that you will live up to it by 15 minutes and 90 minutes and what has been said about five bases. But, as I said, the hearing is not yet concluded. There's a few pieces left. Let's hope they get through this. At the moment, however, we do not intend to make any immediate changes to headship. I would like to reiterate that to do so requires a very thorough analysis, as there are many different organisations involved in the overall sea rescue activities.
i-01993c47c3636eac-100	Mr President, I would like to The latter is quite right: this is something you need to look at carefully and quickly examine how it should be done. The problem, just as the Minister for Defence is also partly concerned, is that this cooperation agreement does not work. The Armed Forces don't get value for money. The temporary agreement that has now been made was in the time of the Count. I have a piece of paper in front of me that shows what it would have meant: If it had not been, the Swedish Armed Forces would not have been able to have a planned flight at night, which of course would have an extremely negative impact. The Swedish Armed Forces were in the committee a week ago and informed about the problems they have with helicopter rescue. The Swedish Armed Forces have also sent a letter asking what ability the Swedish Maritime Administration has to meet the Swedish Armed Forces' need for rescue in a combat environment at a higher level of conflict, for example in crisis or war. They also wondered about a scenario with a Swedish JAS 39 that crashed across the Baltic Sea, where the pilot had been shot out and ended up outside the Swedish FIR and within the Russian SSR, i.e. within the Russian flight information zone. At first it took a very long time to get answers, and when you got answers it was that if there is a crisis or at worst war, the Swedish Maritime Administration will not go out at all. They will do nothing to save, nor in the latter scenario where one of our JAS aircraft operates east of Gotland. This is very serious, and it cannot be reasonable in the tough environment of security policy that we find ourselves in when we are going to build a defence that also works for real. It must then be ensured that this type of emergency response also works in such a situation, and that problem remains to be resolved. We were at the weather minim um earlier. Even if this agreement is temporarily resolved, it is still the case that you have high weather conditions, which means that you do not go up. The Armed Forces go up and do their job, but those who are going to save cannot go up. This is a very, very worrying situation. In Norway, Finland and Denmark, the Armed Forces have the operational responsibility. This was also the case in Sweden before, while we now have a special solution. The Minister for Defence knows this, and it was also shown at our meeting last week that the Swedish Armed Forces could be able to cope with the staffing of three of the bases relatively quickly. The question is: what does the Minister intend to do specifically in this situation?
i-01993c47c3636eac-110	Mr President, I would like to In order to give a clear answer, I am not going to intervene at all in what is the responsibility of the authority, because then Oscarsson will probably help and contribute with a KU-registration. I just want it to be said that one does not have an unrealistic picture of what is government responsibility and what is government responsibility in this. We are following this very closely, and it turns out that we do not have a long-term solution to the problems, we must of course look at what kind of changes have to be made. But the agreements between the authorities and the agreement with the trade union organisation are things that need to be handled at that level. The need for air rescue applies in peace as well as in crisis and war, although the risk taking in war is obviously considerably greater than in peace. With regard to the condition of maintaining the search and rescue service in the event of a crisis and war, it is of fundamental importance that the Swedish Maritime Administration is actually able to do this. All security authorities, to which the Swedish Maritime Administration belongs, have the task of placing their personnel at war. It is the platform that applies and should apply in this context. We agree fundamentally that there is a wide range of problems that need to be resolved and stabilised, and the Swedish Maritime Administration, as an authority, has a strong pressure to resolve this. I share Oscarsson's view that if this agreement had not been reached now and if it had not been said that by 3 April it would try to solve the last parts, we would have been in a worse situation today. It's a reality. Now the parties got it out, and Mikael Oscarsson can rely on me to follow the process by the back door and really hoped that they would fix it before the time expired. What now applies in the agreement, which I have briefly touched on earlier, is that there is a basic schedule of duty days for the majority of the staff who cover the needs of the regular operations of five bases and which is based mainly on a schedule of work blocks of a number of duty days and associated leave days. These days of service are planned with long advance planning. Redundancy days and redundancy crews are available and are plans only with eight weeks ahead. In addition to redundancy days, there are still n standby days that are planned to be plans only in the business to cover absences that occur at short notice. The Parties also agree to apply the old working time agreement for a transitional period in order to ensure an orderly transition. That is what they have come up with. What is extremely important is that the intentions for the operation are met. It is of course also a question of credibility in relation to the Swedish Armed Forces, in relation to the pilots and in relation to the operational possibility, so I really have no other opinion on the basic issue than what Oscarsson here describes. What might differ, if we were to get involved in changing heads, is that I see it as a rather complex and comprehensive process that will take time in that case. I do not want to open that door in this context, but I follow developments closely. If in the future it turns out that it does not work, it is clear that many balls come up on the table that you have to be prepared to analyze and watch. Now the focus is that the parties need to clarify and resolve this. One must demonstrate from the Swedish Maritime Administration that one lives up to the conditions that apply to the operation and that I have also explained here.
i-01993c47c3636eac-122	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of the state and for better coordination, a long-term solution is needed. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces have 18 NH90 and 20 Agusta A109. The police have 7 new Bell 429. The Swedish Maritime Administration has Westland Westland AW139, and 5 of the old are completely unused in Säve. This needs to be used more effectively; it is necessary for Sweden. It is also the case that the helicopter drivers, the crews, have zero confidence in the Swedish Maritime Administration, as they have expressed time and again. They feel that there is a lack of management and competence, so there is a long way to go distrust. This has consequences. I have been in contact with the Swedish Armed Forces these days, and they have told me that this means adjusting the level of risk. You can't do as advanced exercises as planned. What are the consequences? Well, our pilots don't come up with the skills needed so quickly. This affects the readiness of our armed forces, and it is very serious. The Swedish Maritime Administration says that it has 97% access, but in practice it is not at all very good. It only takes account of the fact that the helicopters are in such beautiful parks. The weather minimum of the Swedish Maritime Administration has been raised, which is why, on many occasions, it does not get into the air. That's why the Haveri Commission has looked at the problem. It has to be solved. Instead, the operations should be transferred to the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-01993c47c3636eac-126	Mr President, I would like to The investigation commission will conduct an investigation. It is above all three different events on which it should be built. I will not explain to everyone here, but we will clarify how rescue operations were carried out, why helicopters have not been able to use as intended in those contexts and the impact it has had on the rescue operations, and propose measures to improve the maritime and air rescue services. I think it is excellent that the Haveri Commission takes the initiative and does the job. This is necessary for the development of the business. For obvious reasons, I cannot go into and comment on internal personnel issues, trusts and so on, but the Swedish Armed Forces do not currently have any air rescue capability. There are neither material nor human conditions to implement such things across the sea under the Swedish Armed Forces' direction. I say so to point out that this is not a simple process to carry out if one decides to change the head of the business. The important thing is that we are doing everything we can today to make the business work now. That is why the agreement that has been concluded is important even if it is not concluded and clearly negotiated. I hope that the parties feel the strong pressure that is being reported from various quarters. It is important for the people who work in the operational operations to know that the backup exists. Nor is it reasonable for the Armed Forces to have to consider risks in such situations. Of course, what is agreed must apply. In no sense should we turn a blind eye to the problems. They simply need to be resolved. I have now explained where we stand today on this issue. Then we will have to work constructively. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-01993c47c3636eac-133	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me whether I intend to extend the RUT deduction and raise its ceiling. The RUT deduction has been extended on 1 au gusti 2016 with floating, IT and additional gardening services and on 1 January 2017 with the repair and maintenance of white goods. For the RUT deduction to be effective, a certain degree of restrictiveness in the case of enlargements is required. No further enlargement is currently under way. As I have explained in several previous interpellation debates, the reasons behind the changes in the RUT of the move that came into force on 1 January 2016 are that the deduction should be directed more towards ordinary households. It is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that fiscal policy is perceived as fair. The changes are not expected to make any difference for the vast majority of those who are currently making RUT deductions. This also applies after the introduction of additional services as very few users of the RUT deduction make deductions for amounts as high as SEK 25 000. For 2018 b, it is estimated to be just over 2 per cent of users, who are expected to have an average annual inheritance income of approximately SEK 900 000. Against this background, any increase in the ceiling of the RUT deduction is not relevant.
i-9M7ZWdkD3fa7djE97c7m2c	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! The RUT deduction is an important and successful reform introduced by the Alliance Government in 2007. It has since evolved during the eight years of the Alliance in the government. Since then, the regulatory framework for RUT has been partially tightened, amounts have been reduced and so on. However, the deduction has also gradually developed into more and more sectors. However, it is not Magdalena Andersson's merit or the Social Democratic Government's merit, and it is not, above all, a contribution from the government's cooperation party, the Left Party, which actually wants nothing more than to remove the important RUT deduction. In an agreement on the entire migration reform between the Alliance and the Government, the requirements were to preserve and develop the RUT deduction. We did not reach as far as we would like, and therefore we proposed a clear strengthening of the RUT deduction. We did so for a number of reasons. The reduction in taxes in these parts brings benefits to both workers and employers as well as to the state. We have seen that many new people have entered the labour market thanks to RUT. If I am not mistaken, the Minister of Finance, at the beginning of the RUT term of office, hailed as an important reform to bring new arrivals into the labour market. The RUT deduction puts a lot of money into circulation. It has created many new jobs for people who have been far from the labour market, who may have never had a foothold in the labour market, partly because for some there has been a first job after completing studies, partly because it has been a first job for many people who have come to our country – people who have far too often had too high thresholds into the labour market. Investing in a developed and expanded RUT is important for creating jobs with low thresholds, i.e. more jobs that are often called simple jobs in political contexts. These are jobs that require low pre-knowledge, but which are not always easy to perform and which certainly require talent. They represent a smaller step into the labour market. The RUT reform has meant that many new companies have started, and many of these companies have been started by women. Not infrequently, the combination is both a woman and a background in another country. It is therefore also an important reform from the perspective of gender equality. The RUT reform is good for those who work and also for many who need to get the puzzle of life together by being able to use the RUT deduction. The RUT deduction has actually worked so well that large parts of the government have chosen to use the RUT deduction. If I am not misinformed, it is so good that the Finance Minister himself chooses to use the RUT deduction. It's not wrong. In fact, the Minister of Finance earns far more than the 90 0 000 which she claims only 2% of users have. But I don't think it's wrong. The more RUT services the Minister of Finance uses, and the other parts of the government, the more jobs are created in this sector.
i-01993c47c3636eac-142	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Christian Holm Barenfeld you get the impression that I or the government have something against RUT services. That is not the case at all. On the contrary, RUT services have been expanded during my time as Minister of Finance. This has been done both in cooperation with the alliance parties and on its own to include, among other things, the repair of home appliances. There's no dividing line here. It is quite correct that Christian Holm Barenfeld says that my family also buys RUT services. However, we did so even before the tax credit existed. There is no conflict here at all. The number of RUT users has increased during my time as Minister of Finance, the number of SEK used to purchase RUT services has increased during my time as Minister of Finance and the number of companies performing RUT services has increased during my time as Minister of Finance. There's no conflict here. The conflict is about RUT to exist as a deduction for ordinary families or more for those with millions of income. There's a little different entrance. There the Moderates, as the classic moderates they are, show great concern for the individuals who earn over $1 million, while I more care about ordinary households.
i-01993c47c3636eac-146	Mr President, I would like to All of them are going to be a Social Democratic slogan, and that also applies to the Moderates. We'll take care of everyone. We have no problem with those who earn a lot using RUT deductions, but we also want to ensure that those who earn little are able to do so. The more people who use it, the more jobs. That's the point. You can probably find quite a few comments from the Social Democrats about the RUT deduction and how terrible it would be. It was called a pig deduction and all sorts of things. Pig deduction is something your cooperation party, the Left Party, still calls it, and that is with those you are presenting the budget. Therefore, I will not place all the blame on Magdalena Andersson and the government. Nevertheless, it is the government that is responsible and who chooses to cooperate with the Left Party, which thinks that this is an abomination. We see that the thresholds for the labour market are lowered when the RUT deduction is introduced and strengthened. Magdalena Andersson makes it appear that the Social Democrats have developed, improved and strengthened the RUT deduction, but that is not the case in reality. It was not an exultation from the Social Democrats when we called in the agreement on integration for the RUT deduction to be developed. Magdalena Andersson has contributed to halving the amount. Instead, we propose a threefold increase in the current amount in order to reinforce the RUT deduction. The reform was introduced in 2007 and increased sharply each year. That is the case with new reforms, and I hoped that this would continue. But when Magdalena Andersson became Finance Minister and made austerity efforts, we immediately saw that the increase slowed down. The curve no longer rises straight up as before. But, well, the RUT deduction remains and is still being used, and I guarantee that when we get a new alliance government in place, it will further strengthen and improve the RUT deduction.
i-01993c47c3636eac-153	Mr President, I would like to The care for individuals with very high incomes is well known to the Moderates, and we have heard further examples of this today. I have a question for Christian Holm Barenfeld. I have received many questions from his colleagues about extending the RUT deduction so that you can clean indoor pools. This has been very urgent for the Moderates. Does Christian Holm Barenfeld still think that this is an extremely urgent issue? The RUT deduction is a good reform, and that is why we still have it. However, I think that it should mainly be aimed at families with a little ordinary income so that they have the opportunity to buy these services. But when it comes to individuals who earn up to 1 million, my assessment is that they can pay for these services without other citizens having to subsidise these purchases. Here we do a little different assessment. I think it is more important to have money to hire nurses than to subsidise the purchase by millions of wage earners, for example, of cleaning their indoor pool. Christian Holm Barenfeld raises the issue of new arrivals coming to work. It is an ambition that I believe the parliament and government share widely. But if Christian Holm Barenfeld thinks it is so important, it is strange that the Moderates cut back on the measures that help new arrivals get to work. This applies, for example, to all the labour market training that the Moderates want to cut down on, although we know that they are creating jobs for newcomers, not least when they are able to train in shortage professions. Here, the Moderates unfortunately make a big cut in their budget bill.
i-01993c47c3636eac-158	Mr President, I would like to Now we got some traditional socialist rhetoric from the Minister of Finance, and that's all right with me. However, I intend to focus on the issue we are debating. Of course, we can talk about labour market training and some sort of government fiasco in terms of job reform. We can talk about state preparedness jobs, trainee services and other things that were the government's big election promises for more jobs. It is a fiasco so large that the government itself has chosen to withdraw them. As far as labour market training is concerned, the Swedish Public Employment Service's assessment was that it had no effect – and billions are spent on it. That is why we think it is reasonable to tighten up and reduce costs. The government is certainly making changes so that those who are closer to the labour market can benefit from these labour market training courses, but the assessment from those who have analysed this is that those who then receive labour market training would still have got a job. That makes it a bad bet. The Minister for Finance makes fun over indoor pools, and it is a very small part of the Swedish population that has. But if someone were to use a RUT deduction to it or any other service and if any person who earns as much as the Minister of Finance would use the RUT deduction, it is not a problem but an opportunity. It creates jobs. Besides, it doesn't cost anything. You pay taxes, but it's a tax reduction. With the RUT deduction, we made a black labour market white. We lowered thresholds for more people to enter the labour market. More people entered the labour market, more started businesses and people who were far removed from the labour market were hired. For me, this is a success. For me, it's a good rating of reform. That's why I promise the Moderates will strengthen the RUT deduction. It is sad to hear but good to be made clear that the Social Democrats will not do so.
i-01993c47c3636eac-165	Mr President, I would like to I share Christian Barenfeld's view that the RUT deduction has been a good reform. That is why we have reinforced the RUT deduction by ensuring that more services are covered by the RUT deduction. We have done so both in cooperation with the Moderates and on our own. However, my concern for the RUT deduction does not mean that I share Christian Holm Barenfeld's view that it is important that people with a million income should have the opportunity to make deductions of more than 25 000 SEK and that it is extremely important to get RUT deductions for cleaning indoor pools. This is where we split up. Christian Holm Barenfeld calls it socialist rhetoric, but here we have a classic right-left conflict where Christian Holm Barenfeld defends the opportunity for people with millions of incomes to clean their indoor pool not only tax-subsidised but completely tax-free while I safeguard the opportunity to strengthen older care, preschool, school and health care. Of course, the waves of debate will be high during this election year, and I feel that the Moderates have safely placed themselves in their traditional right-wing fold.
i-01993c47c3636eac-169	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me if I believe that the New East Coastal Line is an important part of the infrastructure in Sweden and, if I share the assessment, what measures I take to enable the expansion to double tracks on the section Gävle – Härnösand. Lars Beckman has also asked me if I intend to work towards a faster timetable than Trafikverket's planned roll-out rate of 80 years and how I and the Government intend to take on board the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations in the report on Road and Rail investments in Sweden. The east coast track is an important part of the infrastructure in Sweden and in the European rail network. On Ostkustbanan several new meeting stations have been built and taken into use in the past year. Since 2017, Ostkustbanan has double track all the way between Stockholm and Gävle, and the current national plan includes measures to increase capacity between Gävle and Sundsvall.
i-01993c47c3636eac-173	The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan has now been widely referred and is prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in the spring of 2018, and I therefore cannot today comment on individual objects. In order to enable efficient and high-quality transport within the EU Member States, it is important that the Government and the Finnish Transport Administration work towards the objectives of the TEN-T Regulation. The Government therefore welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Road and Rail Investment in Sweden – is there no EU perspective? According to the Parliamentary Order, the Government will return to the Riksdag with a letter within four months of receiving an audit report prepared by the Swedish National Audit Office. In this letter, the Government will present its assessments of the Swedish National Audit Office's review.
i-01993c47c3636eac-176	Mr President, I would like to The year 2100 is a fantastic year. If the Ostcoast Line is being expanded at the current rate, it means that we would have the New East Coastal Line ready by 2100. This is of course not satisfactory, and that is why there is a broad political consensus between all parties and municipalities, both Region Gävleborg and Västernorrland, that the work on the New East Coastal Line must be accelerated. The new East Coast Line is the gateway to and from Norrland. This is not, as one might think, a question of Gävleborg. It is of course extremely important for Gävleborg and Västernorrland, but when you look at the railway you have to look at the system perspective. You have a decent railway in northern Sweden, although it can of course get better, but there will be a huge bottleneck between Gävle and Härnösand. In fact, it is Sweden's longest – I think – and the most burdened single track: 27 mil. This means that the single track must be extended to double track. I note that the Social Democrats have had their nomination processes and that Västernorrland will very likely have a new Member of Parliament: Stefan Löfven. I hope that Stefan Löfven is already thinking about the needs of Västernorrland in his work and in his political work. If Stefan Löfven is thinking of Västernorrland's needs, he and the government must correct the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal, where necessary extensions of the Ostkustbanan have been made very late in the planning period. That's why I've put this interpellation. Moreover, they have not been sufficiently funded. A double track could quadruple freight traffic and halve journey time. If the travel time is halved, the labour market region will be considerably larger for those living north of Dalälven. I note that the government seems to have almost forgotten Sweden north of Dalälven. I understand that it's fun to talk high-speed in southern Sweden and that it feels exciting to have a fantasy project, but you have to make existing infrastructure work. It is not reasonable that today it takes longer to commute between Sundsvall and Gävle than it did ten fifteen years ago. There will be almost longer distances each time there is a new timetable. Sweden's longest bottleneck must be removed. It's not reasonable with 200 miles of single tracks on such a long stretch. This is important for passenger transport, but it is at least as important for freight transport. We can see today how the lack of railway capacity hampers investments along the Norrland coast. I very much hope that the Minister, the Government and the future Member of Parliament, Stefan Löfven, will recognise the value of the expansion of the New East Coastal Line and correct the Transport Agency's proposal.
i-01993c47c3636eac-185	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that rhetoric, politics and practical action are followed up. I note that this is not really the case with Lars Beckman. When Lars Beckman was in the Parliament during the previous term of office and we had a bourgeois government, which was not ruled by a Stefan Löfven from Västernorrland but by a Fredrik Reinfeldt from Täby, the infrastructure investments concentrated on the metropolitan areas. Then urbanization increased sharply, when centralized government activities to Stockholm, when they did not get a new government work in Gävle, which we have now seen to, and they did not get new government agencies in the rest of the country. You didn't have a government that cared about-- what was the expression? – large parts of the country. My firm opinion is that during that period much of Sweden was centralised and urbanized. This was not least reflected in transport policy. At the time, Lars Beckman voted through a budget that gave 100 billion less than the current national framework for infrastructure investment. At the time there was a finance minister named Anders Borg who thought that there was too much investment on rail and that investments in it were unprofitable. Several moderate members, not least from the region, expressed their serious doubts, as national representatives, about investments in the railway structure, such as the Norrbotnia Line. I am among those who think that we should build this country together and that increasing regional disparities is a concern. That is why we in the government are acting in a completely different way than before. As far as infrastructure is concerned, this is clear. Now we connect the country and have an increased level of ambition for both the railway maintenance side and, not least, infrastructure investments. The distribution in the national plan drawn up by the Finnish Transport Administration is 75-25 in the case of railway investments and road investments. There, the Moderates have not yet given information, more than that they think there is too much investment in rail. Then I would like to ask Lars Beckman if he thinks that we should reduce the investments on rail in the coming plan. Similarly, I would like to ask Lars Beckman whether he thinks it is good if the proposal for the Norrbotnia Line right up to Skellefteå is included in the national plan or whether the Moderates will continue to jeopardise such investments should they happen to win the elections in 2018. I feel confident that we can add 100 billion more, but I maintain the role I have in this case, namely that I will not comment on individual objects until we are done with the process and present the new national plan. Unlike the moderate Minister for Infrastructure during the last parliamentary term, I have at least 100 billion more to spend on national investments. It is a bit rigidly 700 billion in total that we now have the opportunity to spend on strengthening the infrastructure. This is necessary after years of underinvestment. Between 2006 and 2014, a great deal of effort was put into reducing taxes and investment, whether we are talking about housing construction or infrastructure. This is noticeable for all who ride trains, where there are signal and gear failures, and for all who drive on roads, who have less bearing capacity. The maintenance debt we have is enormous. Now we have to start patching up and fixing the holes created by the Alliance Government, which prioritised tax cuts before investing in things that build the country big. I am pleased that we will be able to make important investments, not least for the business community, in order to improve good capacity but also in terms of regional labour supply. These are therefore priorities when we now choose which items to invest in and in what order to make these investments.
i-01993c47c3636eac-193	Mr President, I would like to The Internet did not become a fly, as one of Tomas Eneroth's predecessors said. If you have Google and Internet access, I think you should google Ekot's Saturday interview with Lena Baastad. The government has obviously not listened to this interview, but please do! It shows pedagogically how the programme leader in Swedish Radio explains to Lena Baastad how tax revenues increased during the previous term of office. Among other things, we increased the investment in railway maintenance by 40 percent compared to the previous Social Democratic Government. It will be a little bad luck when the Minister throws away rhetoric and does not know the local conditions, but the Government cannot be unaware that the Migration Board has put an extensive v arssel at Gävleborg. 140 employees have been given notice of termination, although Gävleborg may be the county that has received the most foreign born. Of course, the 14 employees, or whatever it was, who will be at the authority in Gävleborg cannot compensate for the 140 who are laid off. It's going to be a little tossy in the rhetoric. The interpellation is about the Ostcoast Line. This interpellation debate is about the importance of an extension of the infrastructure in Gävleborg. It's the gate to and from Norrland. I do not really understand the rhetoric of the Government. But maybe it was just something he threw out. You can thus build 14 rails next to each other in Norrbotten and Västerbotten if you want, if there are then single tracks from Härnösand. So there will be a huge bottleneck, Mr President, which means that there will be restrictions on the entire business community throughout Sweden. The new Ostcoast Line would reduce fossil dependence. We could build at least 63 000 new homes. We would improve the conditions for business throughout the country. We would strengthen employment throughout the country when the labour market region becomes larger and when business can invest, if there is a good infrastructure. We talk a lot about passenger transport. This morning when I was about to get here I looked fortunately on the schedule and saw that my train was at the time. Seven were canceled. We who commute to and from Gävle are used to recurring train delays. Today, of course, there was an extreme situation with snow. That's why I got to leave at noon. 6.14. As the labour market regions grow, this will of course benefit development. It is not reasonable that the travel time between Sundsvall and Stockholm today is about 25 minutes longer than it was about ten years ago. Travelling between Gävle and Sundsvall has increased by 80 percent since 2000, which is fantastically good. We Moderates protect, unlike this government, all types of traffic. All modes of traffic are needed. These modes of transport are needed in collaboration with each other. Let me be clear, and I wish the government would listen now. It is better to invest in existing rail than to create a fantasy project in southern Sweden with high-speed trains. If you want to see the whole of Sweden, you want a rich business community throughout Sweden and if you want to make it possible for us who live north of Dalälven, then it is important that we can also ride trains and that we can also go on the roads. It is important that our ports, and not least aviation, work. I who was born and raised in Norrbotten have even had an annual pass on SAS and sat with the 100 commuters who daily actually commute between Luleå and Stockholm. Then it's important to have all kinds of traffic. I very much hope that the Government and Stefan Löfven will correct the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal when they will now make their decision shortly.
i-01993c47c3636eac-204	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that it would be a little difficult for Lars Beckman to argue for major railway initiatives when the alliance government chose to spend 100 billion less than we are now doing on this and question the distribution 75 – 25. New high-speed rails can, if you want to do as Lars Beckman, call fantasy projects. I do not think that all the moderate politicians around the country who are deeply involved in this think it is fantasy projects. Large parts of the world and Europe have high-speed projects. What is important, whether we are talking about high-speed trains or not, is that we are giving room for new investments in new main roads. What has happened is that for 10 to 15 years we have had a sharp increase in rail traffic because more people want to travel by train. More individuals want to ride trains, but more companies also want to send goods on trains for climate reasons and for other reasons. But when this happened, the corresponding investments were not made, either in rail maintenance or in new investments, because the alliance government felt it was more important to reduce taxes. That is why it is crowded on the tracks, and that is why we are getting the bottlenecks that Lars Beckman is now talking about. It is clear that it will take time to address the underinvestments that have been. But strengthening the existing rail system will not be enough. If we are to unload it, we must also have new main routes to ensure that there is room for increased capacity for passenger and freight traffic. I am among those who believe that it is good that we can make common broad agreements on major strategic issues for Sweden. On the issue of high-speed trains, I would like there to be a broad consensus, because it will be a major industrial project which will span several terms of office. That is one of the reasons why I also want a dialogue with the alliance parties. Once such a project begins, it cannot simply be interrupted in the middle of it. Large industrial and system projects are something we are generally good at in Sweden. We are good at finding and modernising new technologies and finding efficient transport solutions. But we must also take responsibility for funding. That is one of the reasons why I would like a broad agreement there. Again: I cannot comment on individual objects, but I share Lars Beckman's view that it is important to strengthen the railways. I also share the view that we need to find more capacity to make use of the entire bow. It does not matter whether investments are made in BK4 for 74-tonne trucks, in certain rail routes or in certain road routes if the full system capacity cannot be used. This is also one of the reasons why I am bringing maritime transport and ports into this work on a cross-road plan. The ports have been neglected for a long time in terms of planning. From Sweden's harbours, therefore, I was very happy when, as the first minister ever, as I know, I invited the ports to a meeting – I think that, among others, Gävle harbour was there – to discuss the importance of the ports for more goods to be moved to shipping. This is under-utilised resource. In this situation, unlike the previous government, when we have pushed through a change in tonnage tax, which means that we are increasing the flag in Swedish shipping, it actually means that we are giving capacity to be able to transfer more goods on trains and then to shipping. I think that not least many people in the Gävle region can appreciate that. In the national plan, we will provide information on how we view the East Coast Line, or for that matter the Norrbotnia Line. I am also pleased that we have 100 billion more. That will not be enough for all the wishes that exist, because we will still be suffering from underinvestments for a long time during the period of priority tax cuts over those that build the country strongly.
i-01993c47c3636eac-212	Mr President, I would like to So the Internet was not a fly, as your predecessor thought it would be. Everyone can go in and listen to Ekot's Saturday interview with the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats, where the programme director explains very pedagogically to the Social Democrats that tax revenues increased during the previous term of office. The onelins you drive are getting pretty tired am. But maybe there's some SSU who believes in this-- what do I know? I am the one who has aroused the interpellation that we are debating today, and it is true that I am moderate. I'm proud of it, and I'm happy. On the other hand, the work on the New East Coastal Line has a broad political base. All parties support it. All municipalities work together for it, and all regions and county councils work together for it. I note that when he is allowed to talk about high-speed trains, it is almost visible in the eyes of the Government. I understand that. It's a very exciting and good project. But for those who live in Hofors or Söderhamn, for those who suffer constant train delays between Gävle and Uppsala or between Hudiksvall and Gävle, it does not help that you build a high-speed track in southern Sweden. I have respect for my moderate colleagues who, of course, see a value in such a thing. But I also think that many people understand the need to protect what they have. Existing infrastructure must be protected. And you must also be able to see infrastructure investments that work north of Dalälven. I am absolutely sure that the Government is well aware of how important the forest industry is in Sweden, how important the base industry is in Sweden and how important it is for the 14 000 unemployed in Gävleborg that we get a better functioning infrastructure that allows you to commute even better to Sundsvall and Härnösand or to Mälardalen. As I said, there is a broad political consensus between all parties north of Dalälven that the government must correct the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a plan.
i-01993c47c3636eac-219	Mr President, I would like to The broad consensus I know well. Elvy Söderström and many other regional representatives have led the work. I was deeply impressed when in the consultation session with the county planners had a strong position from all over northern Sweden around two projects – Ostkustbanan and Norrbotniabanan. That was the priority that was shared across party boundaries. That is something that, of course, makes a deep impression on the work that I now have to prioritise the right efforts in the national plan. This is important not least for industry. I have my own background in the industry and know the forest industry as the chronoberger and small-timer as I am. That is why I know that both 74-ton trucks and BK4, but also working rail transport and an active industrial policy, are crucial. Fredrik Reinfeldt said in Davos: We used to have people in the industry, but they are basically go. But it is not as Fredrik Reinfeldt claimed, that Swedish industry is almost gone. On the contrary, we are an export-dependent industrial country that is now investing. We are investing strongly in industry in Sweden, and it is doing well – because it has a government that benefits its growth. We are making infrastructure investments that enable industry to develop new, climate-smart products. Not least in Sandviken we have a project with electric roads, where Ernst's Express Scania trucks can run fossil-free heavy transport. This is the beginning of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country and ensuring that we create the permanent world exhibition that allows Sweden – with tough climate, good handshake with industry and good research – to be the world leader and open new markets for the Swedish automotive industry, from which I myself originally come. It feels good to live in a country where we invest heavily in industry. Of course, infrastructure investment must follow many of those priorities. With 100 billion more, we can do far more than before, and I am delighted about that.
i-01993c47c3636eac-222	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me seven questions which concern my vision of how winter road maintenance is carried out and what measures I intend to take to improve winter road maintenance in Sweden. The high quality of winter road maintenance on our roads is of great importance for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency, which has the Government's mission to be responsible for winter road maintenance, has therefore developed requirements for what should apply to winter road maintenance on the state roads. The requirements vary according to the type of road and the amount of traffic on the road. However, the requirements apply equally in all parts of the country. In order to continuously improve and develop both accessibility and winter road maintenance, both the Government and Trafikverket are engaged in continuous improvement work. Among other things, dialogue with the industry is being conducted to capture views. The Finnish Transport Agency employs a third party to follow up entrepreneurs' work and to check that efforts are both started and completed at the right time and that the result is as agreed. The Finnish Transport Agency has also developed new methods and methods for monitoring. For example, GPS is used in the vehicles, which allows the work done to be followed up at a detailed level. The Finnish Transport Agency has identified a number of winter critical routes where additional measures are taken. For example, there may be critical slopes where there are very heavy goods traffic or sections often blocked by snow dredgers. It is not only winter road maintenance that determines the accessibility of state roads in wintertime. It is also important that both vehicles and drivers are prepared and take the measures required by the road team. Using winter tyres with the right tread depth is an important measure, as is planning your journey according to weather conditions. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has referred a proposal for increased winter tyre requirements for heavy duty vehicles to reduce the risk of accidents and blocking vehicles, and the issue is now being addressed. In order to strengthen Swedish road safety work, the Government initiated a new start of the zero vision in 2016 and established a focus for the continued work. Examples of concrete measures include a ban on hand-held mobile phones while driving and an increase in the financial framework for infrastructure in the next planning period of over SEK 100 billion, which allows for strong investment in infrastructure development and including road safety. I would also like to point out that the costs of winter maintenance vary according to how the winter weather develops and how much effort needs to be made to keep the roads in order. The Finnish Transport Agency always carries out winter maintenance as long as there is a need. Although the total costs are high, the operation is not interrupted. Overall, I can note that Trafikverket has well-designed procedures for how winter road maintenance should be carried out and for how the results are followed up. Improvements and development of the business are also ongoing at several different levels to ensure good accessibility, including in the work with the zero vision but also in dialogue with the industry. The fact that state roads have good accessibility during the winter is an important issue for the government, and I intend to continue to follow the matter.
i-01993c47c3636eac-230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I was going to start Sunday night. I have two good friends, Peter and Roger. They are very experienced and have been driving a truck for a long time; they are over 60 years old. Last Sunday they drove to Trondheim from Gävle. Peter has been driving that route for many years– I think it's about thirty years. Last Sunday they went on the E4, turned left at Tönnebro and then went on road 83. It was lightning all Sunday night. Roger said: It was lucky that it was me and Peter, two experienced drivers, who were driving. Then they came up to E14. There's a flashhook there, too. They drove on across the Norwegian border, and on the Norwegian side it was not lightning. In the same climate zone and on the same road – E14 is an incredibly important national road – there was lightning all the way on the Swedish side and very good road team on the Norwegian side. This shows that Sweden has major problems with winter road maintenance. During the autumn I was contacted by many, not least in the haulage industry, who said: You must act, Lars! So the week before Christmas, I met the haulage industry. We had a meeting in Bollnäs where Sweden's Åkeri companies and Machine Entrepreneurs, the organisation that organizes the companies that actually manage winter road maintenance, were involved. One of the skiers told me that his father started the company in 1950. So he has quite a few years of experience, and he said that he has never experienced worse winter road maintenance than in the last two years. The consequences have been seen. We've seen the E4 at Hudiksvall shut down for 24 hours because of lightning. We have seen a school bus go off the road outside Bollnäs – in Bergsjö in Nordanstig it was. We see how trucks after trucks get stuck. This, Mr President, is terrible. Sweden has four seasons, and as a citizen you must be able to expect winter road maintenance to work throughout Sweden. Of course, Sweden's Åkeri companies have not sat on their hands, but have reviewed the winter road maintenance. They have reviewed the requirements that are set, and then they have hired a consultant who has physically gone around and reviewed how the Swedish Transport Administration has followed up on its mission. Since the internet did not become a fly, we can go into Youtube and watch the movie of that stretch on the E16. It is clear that there is a lack of control. So there is nothing wrong with the demands that have been made, but they are great. Should the requirements be followed, we would not have to see school buses with children riding in the ditch. I would have liked a little, a little more humble attitude from the Government. It could have been said that there are major problems in this area. It could have been said that Trafikverket is failing in its follow-up. This was also something the Machine Entrepreneurs and the Swedish Åkeri company agreed on when we met in Bollnäs; they said that it is probably not wrong with the requirements but that the problem is that they are not being followed. The problem is that there is no follow-up. The measurement that was made showed that E16 was smoother than a slide. So at the control that was done, the E16 was more slippery than a slide! It goes without saying that concrete measures must be taken to put this in order – for many different reasons.
i-01993c47c3636eac-238	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Beckman for his commitment. I'm actually, like Lars Beckman, deeply committed to traffic being safe. I like to drive and travel a lot on both Småland roads and around the country, and I think it should be safe. That is why I have been involved in these issues, whether it be mobile telephony while travelling or winter tyre requirements. When heavy vehicles do not have winter tyres, it not only causes accidents but also blocks snow clearance. I think it is very important that winter road maintenance works well. I think it's good that the Swedish Transport Administration now in recent years is equipping everyone with GPS. There has been a debate here in Parliament where some colleagues of Lars Beckman have questioned the tough control from the Swedish Transport Administration because they think it is a bit too hard. I think that control is good – we should know where taxpayers' money goes, and we should ensure that the services we pay for are delivered. However, it is important to point out that it is not the Finnish Transport Administration that is doing this. All snow clearance is procured in competition. The Finnish Transport Agency does not carry out snow clearance on its own, but private contractors carry it out. I wonder if Lars Beckman thinks this issue should be addressed, i.e. the head of snow clearance. I do not think this is currently the case. I would like to hope and believe that machinery contractors and the haulage industry have good opportunities to complete the mission. This is important because Trafikverket has a third party review the transport and that the contractors start at the right time. You should be able to see if it is sand or salt that is poured out. All of this is now being measured and followed up. It is even possible to get a fine of 20 000 to 60 000 crowns, depending on the size of the vessel, if you do not fulfill your assignment. I think it is obvious that the Swedish Transport Administration should use the control instruments that exist. It is important that entrepreneurs complete the mission. It is also important to ensure that we have good winter road maintenance on our roads, not least in a situation where we know how crucial this is for road safety. If there are deficiencies, it is only good if the Finnish Transport Administration corrects them. I myself have had a dialogue with machine contractors, haulage companies and many others. I note that some have been a little perplexing about our demand for winter tyres, but I do not see it as being in opposition to improving winter road maintenance. Instead, I think that both are measures that improve the conditions for working winter road maintenance. I also note that this is not a budget issue – Lars Beckman and I myself know this, but it is important to know for those who may follow the debate on television. It's not like it might have been in some municipalities – that you can't snow out when the money runs out. In the state, Trafikverket will complete the winter road maintenance, and it may cost you what it costs. In the long term, however, there will always be some mild winter so that it evens out. We can also see that it varies in budget terms over the years. However, it does not vary over the term of office, so the quality of winter road maintenance is obviously not determined by which government is in charge. We note, however, that during this government, the Finnish Transport Administration has increased monitoring via GPS, in order to check that private entrepreneurs carry out their mission, through third party controls, to ensure that they do so, as well as by means of sanctions. I think it is crucial that we have working winter road maintenance. I also think it is important that we use the professionalism and competence of road hauliers and machine contractors and that they are involved in giving advice on what equipment we should have in order to get the best possible winter road maintenance. The Swedish Transport Administration has had comments on the VSP report, and I can respect that. But – once again – no one should hesitate regarding the government's goal: We shall have well-functioning winter road maintenance. That is absolutely essential for road safety.
i-01993c47c3636eac-250	Mr President, I would like to We therefore agree that we will have a well-functioning winter road maintenance in Sweden. What we may not agree on is whether this works. I hope that the Minister for Infrastructure has so many good employees that he can produce a basis and only look at the events of the last month in Gävleborg. The police even went out and warned that there was such a flash on the E4 that motorists were advised not to go out. The police went outside and said, "Don't go on the road!" It is a normal relationship with winter in Sweden. It's not something that suddenly happens, it's a normal relationship. There is certainly no quick fix on this, but I note, for example, that the number of plow cars in Sweden is smaller than it was in 1992. You can streamline a lot, but it is difficult to streamline out plow cars. When it snows, and when there is a road, you have to plow and fight. I drove myself out on the E16 on a Friday night a few weeks ago, it was probably between Christmas and New Year. I have a four-wheel drive car with studded tires, but it was like riding on a slide. Reality always beats the rhetoric of this House. Reality always beats wishful thinking. Reality — not wishful thinking — is what affects the driver. Obviously, winter road maintenance is not working. I amused myself last night by looking before this debate at the worst examples I would choose. There were so many examples that I could hardly choose anything, but when school buses get off the road I think it has gone too far. Experienced riders, who have been running their business since 1950, tell us how bad it has been in recent years, and this situation is simply not acceptable. I also note that the machine contractors have given me examples where those who do snow clearance may have been responsible for 40 miles a year ago, but now, instead, have responsibility for 80 miles, with basically the same payment. This means, by definition, that it takes twice as long. We fully agree that careful follow-up of entrepreneurs should take place. When you procure and buy a service, you should of course get what you have ordered. If an entrepreneur – whether it is a state company or a private entrepreneur – does not deliver the service that we have ordered, it shall pay a fine of a substantial amount. If the contractor still, after it has received a heavy penalty payment, has not understood that it will deliver, I assume that the contract with the contractor will be terminated. It's about life and death. It's about working environment for all the drivers who are sitting in their cars and are actually dependent on the E4 working. The slope between Sweden and Norway is also called the Swedish slopes by the professional drivers. That's where the trucks slip. It is on this three-kilometer hill that the trucks get stuck because the Swedish side does not perform anti-slip enough. At this point, I would like the Government to take more concrete action. On the subject of tyres, I find it very interesting that the government is made up of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. It's good that the government says the tires matter. It is completely incomprehensible, then, that municipalities can be allowed to have a double-deck ban on private passenger cars at all. The combination of poor winter road maintenance – the E4 is more slippery than a slide – and that motorists are forbidden to drive with studded tyres goes against Parliament's zero vision of the number of road deaths.
i-01993c47c3636eac-263	Mr President, I would like to I note that Lars Beckman and I agree on the importance of follow-up and tough sanctions against those who do not fulfil the mission. I share that view. I myself am concerned that the incitement to traffic has increased and that other traffic behaviour, which in itself puts us at risk of getting a deterioration in accident statistics. On the other hand, it is with the evidence that we find it difficult to claim that there would be more accidents. In the follow-up to the zero vision, we can see that fewer people are injured or killed in traffic than ever before. One of the reasons why I want to go forward with the proposal on winter tyres on all the wheels of heavy-duty vehicles is precisely that we have seen a number of accidents involving heavy-duty vehicles. Not least, foreign hauliers have lower tyre quality, which is noticeable in southern Sweden. In relation to Norway – speaking of Norwaybacken or Swedenbacken – we should know that Norway has such legislation on winter tires. I have not yet understood whether Lars Beckman is in favour or against us imposing requirements on winter tires. I think it is important, because the damage that a heavy vehicle can cause if you do not have the right capacity to avoid or to brake is very great. It is therefore important for me to ensure that support is provided to enforce the requirement for winter tyres. Of course, it is also important that we ensure that this control is in place throughout the country and that the capacity is in place throughout the country. I realise – and I think Lars Beckman does – that there is a balance between the Swedish Transport Administration's need to make efficient procurements and the resources available, not least in northern Sweden, for entrepreneurs who should be able to operate in a market. I intend to continue the dialogue that I have had with the haulage industry to ensure that we have the right resources for this. I do not think that this is an area where the Swedish Transport Administration will start to carry out maintenance or winter maintenance in its own right. When it comes to railway maintenance, however, we have chosen to take a path that means that we increase Trafikverket's own capacity. So we have no differences of opinion. On the other hand, we may have different experiences and opinions on whether it was better in the past. I noted in the face of this interpellation debate that I looked back at some interpellation debates in which my moderate representative, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, participated. It was the same at the time– there were many anecdotes about distances, where riders told us that this was the worst ever. I can respect that, but I note that the measurement methods are better now. Suppliers are better controlled. There are better indicators on how to take action. But, of course, it is also necessary to follow up hard so that the efforts are also carried out. If this would result in capacity problems due to other challenges in the haulage industry, we must be prepared to discuss it. I am not prepared to compromise the safety of our roads by the fact that we have shortcomings in winter road maintenance. That is why I have conducted a deep dialogue with the National Association of Individual Roads on winter road maintenance in northern Sweden, where individual road keepers at least in the beginning of winter have had challenges to ensure that snow clearance can work well. Thankfully, these problems now seem to have been resolved. After all, it must be clear that ambulances and home help vehicles, for example, should be able to arrive. This must be resolved by the actors, whether they are state companies, private companies or a state authority. We are making this demand, and I dare say that there are absolutely no political dividing lines here. Again: I appreciate Lars Beckman's commitment to this issue and will continue to engage with it myself. I welcome all the moves to ensure that we have safer behaviour in traffic.
i-01993c47c3636eac-278	Mr President, I would like to When I heard the proposal on winter tyres for heavy vehicles, I spontaneously thought it sounded good. After I then got into the question, read and meet riders, I understand that it is not as simple as that we can make demands on winter tyres for heavy vehicles to solve the problem, because there is a difference between passenger cars and heavy vehicles. I am pleased that the Minister realises that there is a link between road safety, the number of road deaths and tyres, because if one has that insight, one should of course combat all the ideas of dubbing-deck bans on passenger cars. As I said, reality beats rhetoric. Measurements show that the E16 is more slippery than a slide, and that should of course be frightening. The E4 was off for 24 hours because of lightning. We can't have it like that. Winter roads and anti-slips must work in a country with four seasons. It must work so that goods and passenger cars can flow. There is a stretch of road in Sweden that is more terrible than many others, namely the E4 between Gävle and Söderhamn. When going south from Hälsingland it would be logical to choose the E4 but it is turned off so often because of cars that have gone off the road. Therefore, heavy traffic chooses other roads that are far more unsuitable to travel on. It is good that we have political agreement that we should have good winter road management. It would be even better if the Government took concrete steps to ensure that we have a good winter course, so that motorists, professional drivers and others can arrive safely and safely at their destinations.
i-01993c47c3636eac-283	Mr President, I would like to I note that Lars Beckman is not yet in a position to say whether or not he thinks it is good to have a winter tyre legislation, which is unfortunate. I believe that such legislation would be good from the point of view of road safety. Both Lars Beckman and I must have winter tires on all four wheels of our vehicles that we are driving, and I think it is reasonable that this also applies to heavy transport. This is an issue that is important to me. One of the first questions I exercised about when I entered the Riksdag in the early 1990s was the question of winter tires, as I know it is crucial for the ability to save lives and avoid collisions to brake in time. With regard to the report, which I promised to come back to, one should be aware that a great deal of criticism has been levelled at how it is constructed. VSP, who did the report on behalf of Sweden's Åkeri companies, has received a lot of criticism from the Swedish Transport Administration for how to summarize the report and what interpretations you make. As I understand it, there are also a lot of errors in the report. It may be as it is with this. As a minister, I do not intend to assess whether reports and evidence are incorrect or not, but I think it is good that the haulage companies themselves also contribute to developing a better basis. It is important that the dialogue between the Finnish Transport Administration and the industry works, and I myself am deeply involved in it. No one should hesitate that we put road safety first. It will be crucial whether we are talking about tyres, mobile phones or alcohol controls, which we are now increasing with automated alcoboms in our ports and elsewhere. This also applies, of course, to well-functioning winter road maintenance. This is absolutely crucial. I still think it is good that it is entrepreneurs who are being procured for this. I note that Lars Beckman does not want to take this issue so far that we should take this responsibility away from the private entrepreneurs and put it under government control. There may be a subsequent debate in that case.
i-01993c47c3636eac-288	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me a number of questions about the changes on highway 50 that Trafikverket will implement mainly in order to increase road safety on the road route between Söderhamn and Glössbo. Priorities of measures on road 50 on the current route are a matter for Region Gävleborg, which as a county planner has the task of developing proposals for a county transport plan for the regional transport infrastructure. Measures on road 50 between Söderhamn and Glössbo are included in Region Gävleborg's proposal for a regional transport infrastructure regional plan for the period 2018–2029. The region has chosen to prioritise this object when it is assessed that the road is an important work commuting route. The proposed measures aim, on the one hand, to ensure a high level of road safety, usability and accessibility for road users and, on the other hand, to make the route more accessible to public transport passengers. The Government intends to establish a financial framework for the county plans in spring 2018. Each county will then establish the county plan after the government has decided on the definitive financial framework for the county plans. I am therefore unable today to comment on individual objects.
i-01993c47c3636eac-291	Mr President, I would like to It seems that the Government Authority of the Swedish Transport Administration strongly dislikes those who live in Hälsingland. We've seen how to turn down street lights. We have debated how bad winter road maintenance works. Among the latest is that you should narrow off a very important commuting distance between Söderhamn and Bollnäs. The reason is said to be that you want to increase road safety by making a broad road narrow. If that were the case, the government would of course ensure that all roads are narrowed down in Sweden. If it were good for road safety in Sweden, you would of course remove Essingeleden's double files and just make one file. What, then, do those who live in Hälsingland say about the narrowing of the road that they intend to do? A former expert at the State Transport Agency says it's the dumbest thing he's ever heard. Another important player, the rescue services in Hälsingland, says: We see road 50 as a artery. We are very strongly critical of narrowing the road. The rescue services need to get there fast. However, as it makes it more difficult to drive on highway 50, which is such an important artery between Edsbyn, Bollnäs and Söderhamn, it will take longer, which can have dire consequences. It is a broad fine road today that is to be made a narrow road. If the emergency services are behind a slow-moving vehicle and there is meeting traffic, you cannot overtake it. But the Government says in its answer that there will be safer roads. But he'll be happy to correct it. The farmers who drive on highway 50 were almost the first to say that this is a real stolle test. Today we have a nice broad road that will be narrow. When farmers with their tractors go out on it, there will be long traffic jams. The Moderates in Söderhamn reacted strongly and ascribed to the municipal council, and this was discussed in the political assemblies. Eva Lindberg, who is a social democrat and a party friend of the Government, has now submitted a letter saying: The referral to the national transport system plan shows that Region Gävleborg is critical of both planned road narrowing and speed reductions on the county's road network. It is clear, among other things, that Region Gävleborg welcomes the ideas and suggestions that exist regarding special initiatives on meeting-separated roads within the regional road network but that it is deeply critical of narrowing roads. It goes on to say that neither can we see that the real risk of road safety can justify the planned actions. There is therefore a broad political consensus in Gävleborg about the folly and folly of making broad fine roads narrower. The government says we should have larger labour market regions. There are 14,000 unemployed in Gävleborg County. It goes without saying that we must be able to get around with all modes of transport. As I said in the previous interpellation debate, it is incredibly important to have an opportunity for a high level of road safety. Making broad roads narrower is really, really stupid, just as many say in Hälsingland.
i-01993c47c3636eac-301	Mr President, I would like to Let me first do a reflection. I am surprised that a Member of the Swedish Parliament calls government officials or other representatives of foolish and stupid or other invectives. We should have a little more cherished language in Parliament. It is about authorities and officials working on behalf of the whole of Sweden, and they do so on the basis of their conditions. I also thought that Lars Beckman was aware of the division of responsibilities. It is Region Gävleborg who, together with Trafikverket, prioritises what projects they want in the county plan. The government only defines the frame and objects and does not go in and look at road narrowing, speed reductions or other measures. This is something that you have to deal with yourself. If the region has a different view from what has been sent to the government regarding the current county plan, it is welcome to return to the government with corrections. It can mean changes and delays, which I, of course, also realise. But it is the region itself that determines the priorities. What the government has done is to increase the county plan allocation by 5 per cent so that the region gets more resources than before in order to be able to increase the labour market or improve accessibility. I am well aware of how important it is to work with commuting paths. It is important to improve road accessibility so that people can commute to work. At the same time, ways need to be found to expand public transport or to enlarge the region. However, the responsibility for the design of road 50 lies in the dialogue between the region and the Finnish Transport Administration. Is there a dialogue there? I informed myself yesterday by talking to the President of the Hälsing Council and have understood that there is an opinion that wants to change the conditions. You are welcome to do so. It's not up to the government. The Government establishes the final county plan that you choose to prioritise in Gävleborg. What the design looks like is something that you will have to handle in dialogue with Trafikverket. Lars Beckman and other political representatives in the region are welcome to return. We're not fixing the county plan yet. We won't do that until spring. You are therefore welcome to submit corrections after dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-01993c47c3636eac-307	Mr President, I would like to It's possible I was unclear, but I'd be happy to repeat again. That's the dumbest thing I've ever heard was a quote from a newspaper article in All of Hälsingland. It is good that the Minister for Infrastructure now says that if you do not want to narrow roads, you do not have to do so. What is interesting, however, is that in another interpellation debate that I have had with the Government, we stated that road safety in Sweden is important and that the Riksdag has set up a zero vision. It would therefore be interesting to hear the Government's problematisation and if he shares the view that we will have increased road safety in Sweden if we go from broad fine roads with the road to narrow the roads and remove the road. Does this mean that the risk of road accidents increases or decreases if a motorist stands on a road without the road when, for example, he or she gets a flat tire and has to change the tyres along the road? Will the risk increase or decrease when emergency services respond if emergency times increase? The question of principle must, of course, be understood by the Government. Does the Government share the view that road safety in Sweden increases if we make large, fine and broad roads narrower? This is something citizens expect to hear.
i-01993c47c3636eac-311	Mr President, I would like to I note that Lars Beckman is now changing direction and no longer wanting to discuss the changes on Highway 50, which the interpellation is actually about. With regard to changes for highway 50, I have no concern about that if the region wants to set other priorities. They are welcome to do so. The general debate is interesting, not least in view of the fact that there is an ongoing dialogue in the discussion on the design of the national plan on speed changes, road safety measures and centre rack positions. I know that Lars Beckman, like me, is deeply involved in road safety. Sometimes there are conflicts between accessibility and road safety. There is no doubt about it. That's what traffic research says. Therefore, this conflict of objectives must be able to be addressed when setting priorities in the various future projects. In this case it is again a question of a dialogue that you in Gävleborg must have with the Swedish Transport Administration. As I said, you are welcome to return. The government does not intend to establish any changes on highway 50 until spring when we decide on the national plan. There we spend 100 billion more on infrastructure than the alliance government did so that we can spend 47% more on rail maintenance and increase road accessibility and safety. We can both maintain the quality of the infrastructure we have and, in fact, also make new infrastructure investments, which is welcome in order to increase accessibility. Lars Beckman, like all of Gävleborg, is welcome to return to the question eventually.
i-01993c47c3636eac-317	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Ruth report was ready to this day about how much more money the Moderates devote to roads than the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government does. I'm sure there's a reason to come back to that. As I said, it is about highway 50, where the Swedish Transport Administration believes that road safety is increased by narrowing the road. Representatives of the State Department have said in the media and apparently think that road safety increases if you make highway 50 narrower. You make a big, nice and wide road narrower. Nevertheless, I would like to know whether the Government shares the view that road safety will improve if we narrow roads. Is that the principle that applies? Will the government go further on this if it is so unfortunate that the Government is allowed to continue in the next term of office? Is this what we see before us: the large, fine and broad roads we have in Sweden should be narrowed? Please also answer the question about highway 50! Does the Government believe that road safety increases or decreases if you make a wide and nice road narrower?
i-01993c47c3636eac-321	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to answer questions about individual objects. I have a feeling that the first thing that would happen is that Lars Beckman or some other party partner when the KU register me because of ministerial rule. I be careful not to do so. It is not for me, as a minister of state, to speak about individual objects or, in this case, how the Finnish Transport Administration will make changes on highway 50 in detail. This is also the responsibility of Lars Beckman and everyone else in Region Gävleborg to design the changes on highway 50 in the best way. It can also be determined whether we want to dispose otherwise of the 5% increase in county road funding that we are now doing in the national plan. I think that this responsibility should lie regionally, because that is where you have the best conditions for making assessments of what is best from the point of view of road safety or accessibility. I realize that the work commuting is important in Region Gävleborg, just as it is in many other regions. This applies not least now that unemployment is falling, employment is increasing and Sweden is doing well, unlike the time when Lars Beckman's party ruled the country. The industry and services sector is now in full swing. More commute to work and more people need to get to work. This, of course, places increased demands on infrastructure. That is why we are spending 100 billion more, but it will need to be done even more in order for Sweden to continue to develop as a strong industry nation in an export-dependent market and to be able to astound the rest of the world. I look forward to further discussion with Lars Beckman on this.
