i-93d23afe5f06de64-0	I request that Your Majesty declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-7YMEG7mQ8wfXUnvpgsWZQE	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! In 1810, the Riksdag elected Jean Baptiste Bernadotte as heir to the throne. Then only the year before, Sweden had received a new form of government, based on the principle of separation of power. With it we got independent courts and authorities. Citizens' rights and freedoms were established, and the power of parliament was strengthened. It was in this new Sweden that in 1818 my ancestor, that is, 200 years ago, took the throne as King Karl XIV Johan. A century later, in 1918, the world and Sweden were again changing. On 30 October, an historic meeting was opened in R ikssalen at the Royal Palace of Stockholm. My grandfather's father, King Gustaf V, spoke of the just and lasting peace after which all the suffering mankind longs. In November of the same year, the warring parties dropped their weapons. In June 1919 a peace agreement was signed in Versailles, and the following year the League of Nations was formed with Sweden as a member. This covenant would be a forerunner of the United Nations, the United Nations, today one of several important forums for international cooperation. At the turn of the year, Sweden ends its two years as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. It has been a valuable opportunity for our country to help maintain peace and security. With the end of World War I, a new era began. In the coming years, the Swedish Parliament made a number of decisive decisions. I am thinking not least of the voting rights reforms that laid the foundations for Swedish democracy as we know it today. Yes, much has changed in Sweden over the past centuries. The democratic system and its rules of play have continued to evolve. Today, as a hundred years ago, democracy is something that we have together to cherish and protect. Not only on election day, but every day, and now as then, a special responsibility rests with your elected representative representing the Swedish people. Ladies and gentlemen! Each of you has gained the trust of the citizens to represent them here in the Swedish Parliament. Those who live in Sweden today, but also the generations that follow, are your clients. They expect you to use your knowledge and experience to work for the good of Sweden and for a good future for everyone who lives here. To manage the people's trust as a Member of Parliament is not an easy task but at the same time one of the most important ones you can have. It's also a vulnerable mission. Many hundreds of decisions lie ahead of you, and some will be easy to make, others more difficult and complicated. The country's interest is in your hands. I wish you the strength, courage and wisdom of your important work. I hereby declare the 2018/ 19 Parliamentary Session open.
