i-1ca25a3508dd1815-19	Madam President, I would like Mrs Roswall has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce bullying in the workplace. Everyone who works in Sweden should have a safe job where you are not exposed to offensive discrimination such as bullying. Discriminating discrimination is a serious health and safety problem that causes a great deal of suffering to those affected. Since the government took office, raising the level of ambition for health and safety policy has been an important priority. During the term of office, the Government has increased resources in health and safety policy by SEK 100 million annually, and in 2017 an additional SEK 25 million has been added to further strengthen the Swedish Work Environment Authority's oversight activities. Budgetary efforts are a necessary precondition for recovery after the last government's substantial reductions in the field of health and safety at work. The Government has also decided on a national health and safety strategy with concrete measures in three priority areas: zero vision against fatal accidents, sustainable working life and psychosocial work environment. The work environment strategy has been developed in close consultation with the social partners, who have a very important role to play in successful work for a good working environment. Together with the social partners, a mid-term review of the OSH strategy will be carried out in spring 2018, and an evaluation of the strategy will begin in 2019. This spring's work will be an important opportunity to discuss already implemented measures and look ahead in the work environment. The work environment strategy has been developed with the clear starting point that efforts in the field of health and safety at work should be based on relevant research. During the term of office, the Government has invested heavily in working life research and also proposes in the 2018 budget proposal funds to establish a new Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The task of the new authority will be, among other things, to compile and disseminate knowledge about the work environment and to evaluate and analyse health and safety policy. The establishment of a new authority has strong support from the social partners. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on organizational and social work environment, which started in March 2016, represent a major step forward and new opportunities in work environment work. Workload, organisation of working time and discriminatory treatment are three areas that are the focus of the new regulations. The regulations give concrete effect to the Work Environment Act and state, among other things, that the employer must make it clear that offensive discrimination is not accepted at the workplace. The employer must also take measures to counteract conditions in the working environment that may give rise to discriminatory treatment. An important part of reducing bullying and harassment at work is of course also relevant training of employers, supervisors and safety representatives, so that they are well equipped to prevent occupational health and safety risks of a psychosocial nature. During 2017 – 2019, the Swedish Work Environment Authority will carry out special supervision efforts with the support of the regulations on organizational and social work environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has also been commissioned to further develop and disseminate the film about the regulations to the relevant actors. I believe that the regulations, together with the work of the parties, provide a good basis for addressing the health and safety deficiencies and work-related ill-health caused by discriminatory treatment. I will follow this issue and will not rule out the need for further action in the future.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-27	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. My question was quite wide, but the bread text itself was perhaps a little narrower and is based on a report dealing with bullying among management groups and what consequences it has. The answer was broader, which I think was good. Unfortunately, we have had this issue raised several times and seen the spread of mental illness. It is not just a question of bullying, it is also a question of increased workload and unclear tasks. This, in turn, can lead to various things, such as conflicts in a workplace. We know that people who are subjected to discrimination more than others suffer from depression and fatigue syndrome. This is shown by this research, and other research has, of course, shown this. This also shows the seriousness of these problems and that we have to deal with them, especially for the sake of the individual, but also for the sake of society, because we know that they cost a great deal of money. I shall briefly address the study to which I referred in my interpellation. What stuck out in this survey was that the executive groups within the state had a higher degree of bullying than executive groups within municipalities, county councils and the private business sector. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Labour has any comment on the fact that it stuck out there. But I fully agree with the Minister that everyone who works in Sweden should have a safe job to go to and that bullying and offensive discrimination at work is a serious health and safety problem that we know has major consequences. I think the answer is more positive than previous answers. Ylva Johansson himself was present here a number of years ago, both in 2013 and 2014, to push through an announcement to the then alliance government about measures to reduce bullying and offensive discrimination in the workplace. It is good that this has come now. Maybe the answer had come earlier. What do I know? In fact, in 2015 there were 1 160 complaints to the Swedish Work Environment Authority about work-related ill health due to bullying and violations. That is a figure that unfortunately does not fall. We also know that women are more vulnerable than men and that there is more growth among women. To put some kind of figure on this, I can say that between 2011 and 2015 there were 4,633 complaints from women and only, if you may say so, 921 from men. Every year tens of thousands of people are sickened for mental illness due to bullying and harassment at work. This is serious and we need to take more action. Last autumn the Metoo movement started, which showed this major social problem and that it is everywhere. It also showed that it is not a women's issue, but the joint responsibility of all of us. I believe in continuing to highlight the issues. I believe that such a debate may be important in order to highlight the issues and we need to continue to improve the working environment. The report behind the interpellation was, as I said, about managers. It is nothing new, but it is something that Statskontoret reported about 2016. I thought I'd read it inside. I know that the Minister has not had the opportunity to read this before – or perhaps she has – but it says in any case this: According to their study, half of the authorities lacked procedures to detect this at an early stage. My question to the Minister is whether she intends to continue this work and what kind of measures might be envisaged.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-37	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Roswall for a very important interpellation. If we look at sick leave, we see that it is mental illness that stands out, and of course gender equality problems – there are more women who get sick leave. Part of mental illness is about discrimination that can lead to bullying. The Swedish Work Environment Authority defines it this way: It starts with offensive discrimination, and when this becomes systematic for a long time it is called bullying. Then it has gone far – far too far. When it comes to school, we have been discussing bullying for a long time, but bullying also exists in working life. We want to believe that we learn when we grow up, but unfortunately many times that is not the case. Adult bullying is far too widespread. That is never acceptable. This must be stated: there are no exceptional situations, but it cannot be accepted. At the same time, I think it is important to look at factors that may increase the risk of this happening. As the Minister for Labour mentions, the Swedish Work Environment Authority is now focusing on the areas of risk when it comes to offensive discrimination. Not least the workload, because one can see that a high workload increases the risk of offensive discrimination and bullying. Rationalizations are also a great risk, because then the staff will be under pressure. You're afraid of losing your job, and the risk is that coworkers lose their jobs. Then the workload increases, and it can also lead to a competitive situation when you do not know who is going to lose the job and everyone is struggling to keep their job. It becomes a workplace of suspicion, anxiety and stress instead of cooperation. Jessika Roswall also addresses the situation regarding managers. A common scenario is that unfortunately it is the manager who stands for offensive discrimination and bullying. Of course, we have a lot of good managers too – it's not the position of the manager that creates a risk of bullying – but unfortunately it's a common situation. It is also what the Swedish Work Environment Authority points out, that it is often a difference in power conditions where someone who has more power abuses that power against a subordinate. This is also the way to define bullying in the workplace. However, just as Jessika Roswall mentions, it may also be the boss who is the victim, and it is very important that that person gets support and help. You should turn to the employer, and hopefully there is someone higher up in the chain that you can turn to. Otherwise, you can register with the Swedish Work Environment Authority. As the Minister mentions, research is important to find ways to detect adult bullying and risk factors, but also to prevent and combat bullying. The most important thing, I think, is prevention. When it comes to adult bullying in the workplace, the consequences are so far-reaching that it can be a very long way back from a sick leave. At worst, you may never come back. It is about preventive work to prevent it from happening and to get to grips with the situation as quickly as possible when it does. I think that Ylva Johansson from the start has highlighted the social work environment, which has unfortunately been a bit invisible. We must continue with that work to stop this.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-45	Madam President, I would like It is a very important issue that we are debating. Bullying has devastating consequences for the individual. There are many people who can testify to this, and unfortunately there are also examples of very far-reaching, dramatic and tragic consequences of bullying for the individual. I would also say that it is a serious health and safety problem in a broader sense. The Swedish Work Environment Authority conducts its investigations and asks people if they have been subjected to bullying or harassment at their workplaces. These measurements have been made since 2000, and they can be compared. In the latest survey, carried out in 2016, we see an increase in the number of people who say they are exposed to bullying or harassment in their workplaces compared to the year 2000. For women, this is a dramatic increase. The figure for women was 0.4 per cent in 2000, and in 2016 it was 1.1 per cent. It's more than a doubling. Of course, one cannot know for certain why this is – whether it is an increased tendency to name the problem or whether it is an actual increase – but my assessment is that it is a very serious problem. One important thing was when we received the new regulations. They have now been around for quite exactly two years and were in many ways longed for even if for many years, before they arrived on site, they were contentious. There was a big craving for education. My assessment is that both employees and employers have tried seriously to understand this and want to address the difficult issues involved in preventing and combating bullying and harassment in the workplace. I believe that the new regulations are a very important tool – in fact the most important tool we have ever had – when it comes to accessing bullying in the workplace as a work environment problem. However, I am not at all sure that it is enough, and it is therefore important that we follow the issue. The regulations have been in place for two years, and now the Swedish Work Environment Authority will make a special review of how this works. We have also raised the issues in the work environment strategy, which is now included. It is an opportunity when it comes to the evaluation and mid-term review that we will have in the spring. Jessika Roswall asked about the responsibility of government authorities to have procedures and methods to detect, prevent and in every way prevent harassment, bullying and other abusive treatment. Of course you should have it. We must in every way strengthen systematic work environment management, and there is no reason why state representatives or state authorities should not take precedence.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-50	Madam President, I would like I thank both the Minister and Hillevi Larsson. The report from Statskontoret that I have read before the debate I think contained a lot of concrete measures, which have certainly been taken to some extent already. They are about exactly what Hillevi Larsson was into, namely how one early discovers that this is going on at a workplace. My point was to show that there are examples of good examples and that there is research. Much more can be done, of course, but I think that with the metoo movement that is still going on, it is time to seize the opportunity. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise once again the risks of bullying and abusive discrimination. It is at least as important to highlight physical risks to health and safety at work, and the Minister addressed the zero vision of fatal accidents in his response. All work for a good working environment is of course important. But just as many of us have discussed, mental illness is a growing problem, and it is causing an increasing proportion of sick leave. The figures that the Minister mentioned about the dramatic increases are something very serious. A poor psychosocial work environment can have devastating consequences. This is not easy to access. It is not only in the workplace that this occurs, but it can be in society as a whole. The work of the Swedish Work Environment Authority is part of it. The strategy is another part. Employers, of course, have a great responsibility, but so do all of us employees at the workplace. Everyone in society has a responsibility; it is not just one actor who has this responsibility. As I said, I think it is important that we take this debate. I would like to thank you very much for the debate. We'll get back to you!
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-56	Madam President, I would like I think there are some hidden bullying in the sick leave figures; you simply have not been able to report it and you are sick. Then you are really sick, so there is reason to write sick, but affected people may not always know why the person has become ill. I believe that this subject has become less taboo, just as the Metoo movement has lifted the lid when it comes to sexual harassment. This is a positive thing. Even though the figures may look negative when more people report, it is still a first step to make the problem visible in order to be able to do something about it. Being exposed yourself is nothing to be ashamed of. However, in the crime statistics, we see that it is common for the victim to blame himself: and maybe it was I who did something wrong that made them treat me this way. ..................................................... It is therefore important to have the courage to report and to have information about the rights you have. This is also being done now – safety representatives and trade union representatives are being trained to ensure that they know what rights apply at the workplace and support workers and everyone who works at the workplace. This is part of the work on the zero vision of death at work. Unfortunately, there are some cases where the downward spiral has started with offensive discrimination, bullying and sick leave and ultimately ended with suicide. So this is also a matter of life or death. We want to get suicide out of society-- we have a zero vision even for suicide. These things go hand in hand. I also think it is important that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has sufficient resources – otherwise it may only give priority to falls and things that are clear. That's why it's great that the Swedish Work Environment Authority gets more resources.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-62	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall picked up the metoo movement – or the metoo roar, I suppose – which has focused a fantastic attention on extremely serious problems. What we see in the wake of the Metoo uprising are examples of abuse and purely criminal acts committed against women in particular, and examples of totally unacceptable work environment with violations both against individuals and against women as a group and as a collective. This is an important reason for renewing work environment management in relation to work against offensive discrimination and bullying. Madam President, I would like I have already said that I am following the question closely. I do not rule out the need for further action. It is very good that this issue is raised in interpellation debates and in many other ways. There is nothing to be gained by being silent about bullying and offensive discrimination – on the contrary, these problems are reduced by being lifted up in the light and thus managed. A great responsibility rests primarily on employers but also on many individuals and, of course, on government and authorities. Thank you for the debate.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-65	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me whether I believe that the 90-day guarantee offers the right kind of help to those who need it best and how I view the criticism from IFAU that the meaning of the 90-day guarantee is considered unclear. The fact that no young person would have to wait more than 90 days in unemployment to get an offer of a job, education or effort leading to a job was an election promise. Instead of telling young unemployed people that they have to wait three months before they receive support, we said the exact opposite – you should have a job or a job within three months. Since the government took office, youth unemployment has fallen to the lowest level since 2003. The number of young people enrolled as unemployed at Arbetsförmedlingen has decreased by 30 000 since autumn 2014. The number of long-term unemployed young people has also decreased since the introduction of the 90-day guarantee. This has been done at the same time as a large number of young people have been added as new arrivals within the framework of the Employment Service's establishment mandate. The 90-day guarantee sets a lower limit on how long a young person may be unemployed before being offered a job, training or action leading to work or studies. It is not a labour market policy programme. The interventions can be guidance, work practice, work training or various types of special interventions, to name a few. Just meeting your employer on one occasion is not such an effort. As part of the implementation of the 90-day guarantee, Arbetsförmedlingen has decided that unemployed young people who have not taken part in any action within 70 days should be allowed to meet one of Arbetsförmedlingen's specialists. For example, it can be an occupational therapist, a psychologist or a social consultant. I trust the Arbetsförmedlingen offers the right help to the young people they meet. The 90-day guarantee ensures that this support is also provided quickly. All young people will receive early and individualised support. At the same time, it is important that young people are not locked into labour market policy measures. Young people who can seek work or be matched to work should do so. For young people who have not completed their studies, studies should be the main focus. It is clear from unemployment statistics that it is primarily young people who lack upper secondary education who continue to have difficulties in the labour market. It is therefore important that all young people complete their upper secondary school studies. The government's goal is for all young people to start and complete upper secondary education.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. We may not be as much in agreement on this as on the previous one. I understand that the 90-day guarantee itself is not an effort and that there are various other elements to this. However, the Minister for Labour has on a number of occasions supported the chest and often referred to the 90-day guarantee. She's been doing this ever since the 2014 election. Then there is reason to ask a few questions. A while ago, together with the Prime Minister, the Minister for Labour made a move in which both were very pleased to have achieved the 90-day guarantee. It is a little strange, because at the same time we cannot really understand what is included there and what is meant. I hear what the Minister says: it does not just mean meeting with an employment intermediary. But it is still the case, which is also in the interpellation, that it has been a little unclear what is involved. Among other things, reference is made to the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation. A while ago, the newspaper Work was presented because Arbetsförmedlingen itself says that it should be enough to meet some kind of specialist. The second thing I am concerned about as regards youth unemployment – and as a researcher – is that it is critical of the efforts referred to by the Minister for Labour and believes that many of these efforts do not hit the right place, but instead meet young people who still had a job in a boom. Instead, there is concern that this risks delaying young people's entry into the labour market. These include training contracts, which have not proved to meet the right target group. Of the participants, 40 per cent are full-time students who probably had studied anyway. We are still in a boom. The decline in unemployment has nothing to do with government policy, but has to do with the global boom. All countries in the EU – as well as the US and other countries – have had falling youth unemployment, so we are not unique. I was in Älvkarleby yesterday and talked about youth unemployment and integration. Älvkarleby is a small municipality in northern Uppsala County. Despite the boom, they have a high youth unemployment rate of 20%. I am concerned that the government is not seeing this but is hiding behind the 90-day guarantee being fulfilled. Let me give you an example from Älvkarleby. They have 94 young people who are currently unemployed. 58 of them have been unemployed for more than six months, 40 for more than twelve months and 17 for more than 24 months. I have two questions. One is: What happens to these young people when the economic cycle turns? The second question relates a little to what is in the interpellation. If I understand the answer correctly, the Minister for Employment does not share the criticism of whether or not the 90-day guarantee is met. The question then becomes whether it is clear enough what is included in the 90-day guarantee.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-82	Madam President, I would like The biggest difference between current policies and the previous one is an increase in ambition. No later than 90 days, all unemployed young people will receive help. In the past, many had to wait 90 days, and it is devastating to passivity. It is certainly possible even today to find a case where one should have made a better effort for a young person. Nevertheless, I think that there is a clear difference, both in ambitions and in the result, because we had a record level of youth unemployment under the previous government. We even received contributions from the European Union to address this social problem. It is very far from this now, so it has really gone in the right direction. As the Minister for Labour mentions, it is not only youth unemployment that has decreased, but also long-term unemployment among young people, which is the most devastating thing when you risk losing a lot of time and perhaps find it difficult to get back at all. We can see good results, but there are certainly opportunities to develop efforts for young people. I think we'll never have a situation where everything works perfectly. But you still have to see the whole thing, and the whole thing is that it's going in the right direction. Although in some cases more effort should have been made for young people, it is nevertheless better that they have received the effort they have received than none at all, as was unfortunately the case for many before. I remember when we had phase three. There were also some young people in phase 3, despite the fact that under the legal framework it would not be young people in phase 3. The effects of Phase 3 were that extremely few people came out to work, that it was a great cost and that many experienced Phase 3 as very degrading. Now we have changed the policy, so now there is more focus on education. I believe, like Ylva Johansson, that it is a key factor, not least when the economic cycle turns around, because there will continue to be a great craving for educated people. Upper secondary education is a minimum requirement on the labour market today. It's just as well to be honest about having a job, especially long-term and not just short jobs. This is also something that really benefits young people. I believe that in the last round we invested in 93 000 new training places in addition to previous training places. I think this is the right approach, given that we have around 100 000 vacancies in Sweden today that employers are unable to fill, because they do not find staff with the right skills. Then education is crucial. Young people, in particular, have a good chance of getting these jobs if they only invest in education. But then we must not lock them up in passive measures but, on the contrary, invest the resources where they produce the best results. As the Minister for Employment mentions, many young people actually have a good chance of getting a job now. Then it is better that they seek and get jobs than that they get measures. The best thing is always to get a job and in the absence of that training or an active measure to make it easier to get to work. It's always important to be self-critical. You make investments and evaluate them, and then you can surely find things that need to be improved. But there have been huge improvements compared to previous policies, so we are definitely on the right track.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-91	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is important to remember what it looked like when I and the government took office. Then we had a sky high youth unemployment. It was so high that we received EU support. This is despite the fact that the old government invested huge resources of taxpayers' money in a tax rebate which, as was said, would solve youth unemployment but which did not but resulted in serious figures. It was both high unemployment and a very high long-term unemployment among young people. Now we are in a situation of good labour market and falling unemployment. Barely half of the results are estimated to depend on the economic cycle and more than half are estimated to depend on government policy, so there are two things that both contribute in the right direction. Now we have achieved a situation in which no young person is left in passivity. Everyone gets an effort that is supposed to lead to work. In that sense, I feel safe. We have an active labour market policy that leads to young people getting involved and not being left in passivity. Am I 100% sure that every effort really leads to a job? No, I'm not. There is certainly – there is usually – a space for improving quality and results. It is important not only to get an effort, but also to be properly balanced in relation to the needs of the individual and to follow up on the fact that it actually leads to work. However, given that we have such a low youth unemployment today and a dramatic reduction in long-term unemployment among young people, it gives an entirely different scope for the Public Employment Service to work actively with those individuals who need particularly much support. I think it is a good thing that specialist measures can now be given priority for those young people who, due to mental illness or for other reasons, have more complex difficulties entering the labour market. Madam President, I would like Let me address one of the problems mentioned by Jessi Roswall. There are examples of young people who have been enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen for a very long time. Then you might wonder how it goes with the 90-day guarantee. It often turns out, when we look at the young people involved, that it is young people who are enrolled in the establishment mission. And that's a significant number. It is a large group under 25 years of age who are enrolled in the establishment assignment. Since the start-up assignment is normally 24 months and young people are classified as being in the steam sector after 6 months, this means that if you are two years in the start-up assignment, which is normal, you will be classified as long-term unemployed early in that time. It is important to separate these questions from each other. It is not realistic, I think, to expect young people who are new to Sweden and have just begun their establishment to be in work within three or six months. It may be possible in some cases, but for many, the two years will probably be required. However, I am focusing on the fact that the two years will go a long way, so that we get an increasing share that actually gets into work after the two years. If it is young people who are long-term registered because they are enrolled in the establishment mission, I do not think it is a failure if it takes two years in the establishment. If, on the other hand, it is young people who are not enrolled in the start-up assignment, I think it is a very serious failure if they are enrolled in the Employment Service for such a long time and do not get into work.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-97	Madam President, I would like I do not want to get caught up in what is or is not part of the word 'action'. That is not the important thing, but the important thing is to ensure that young people get into real work. What was said by the research group and quoted in the paper The work was that with the effort that has now been sent to Arbetsförmedlingen it is enough to meet a specialist. Now the Minister for Labour said a specialist effort, but that's not really what it says. I wonder if this can be developed, because then perhaps the 90-day guarantee has not been achieved, at least in my view. The sad thing about this is also, as I tried to point out in the previous speech, that the efforts that are being made are not quite right. If they don't do that in a boom, we run the risk of overturning rather than helping young people now that they could get a job. There are statistics showing that despite the boom, more young people are placed in action today than in 2014. More should have been done to lower the thresholds to bring more young people into the labour market, to make it more profitable to work and to invest in the right efforts. I share Hillevi Larsson's view that education is crucial. Unfortunately, however, the figures I saw yesterday cannot be explained away by the fact that they are in the establishment. Many young people remain in long-term unemployment. I think we need to invest more in education and we know that young people who do not have upper secondary education need more effort. There's more to do here. Back to my home country Uppsala. I mentioned one example in my previous speech. Since we have the country's lowest unemployment rate, it is particularly sad to have as high a share of young unemployed as in Älvkarleby municipality. This suggests that the match does not work as well as it should. I have not only in Uppsala County but in many places in the country encountered difficulties and challenges in finding the right skills. We must therefore ensure that matching and vocational training work better so that we can overcome this problem.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-103	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, education is important, and we agree on that. Individually adapted measures are also important for everyone, because they have different needs and different lengths of time to get into work. Apart from a lack of education, it can be about mental illness or illness in general. Unfortunately, even young people may have such obstacles along the way. Special efforts may be needed to make you feel better and increase your chances of getting a job. Although the action does not look like a straight road to work, perhaps the fastest way to work for such a person is to get help from a specialist. Then you can move on to education or work. The important thing is that you get active efforts and that once you have a real job you get a real salary. One problem with phase 3 was that you didn't get a real salary even though you did a real job. No one deserves it, whether you're young or older, but if you do a job, you should get paid for it. The goal is a real job, not an action. A measure can be a step on the road to a real job, but when you see that the measure does not work, you have to learn from it and re-evaluate the policy. This is what the government does; it invests where you see that it actually leads to jobs. I believe that we have only seen the beginning of what the educational effort will lead to in terms of jobs. We see good results in school, despite the fact that there is still a long way to go, not least with regard to the equivalence of schools. However, completing primary and secondary education is a basic level that all young people need, and that is what government policy is all about.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-108	Madam President, I would like Youth unemployment is a very important issue. Of course, we cannot be satisfied as long as there are unemployed young people, although both the strong reduction we have seen and the 90-day guarantee are a success. Just as Jessika Roswall says, the matching does not work as well as it should on the Swedish labour market. One important reason for this is that many of the unemployed do not have the right skills for the record number of job vacancies. The first thing I did when I took office as Minister for Labour was to tackle youth unemployment. I travelled around and met the municipal authorities in almost all the municipalities in the country. I offered them cooperation, and in principle all the municipalities of the country accepted. This cooperation has now been conducted under the leadership of the Delegation for Youth and Newcomers in work and has produced very good results. I think it is precisely in this way that we should continue to work on the challenges that remain: close cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipality together with local employers and other important stakeholders. Let us look at the challenges we face with regard to the large groups of young people who still find it difficult to enter the labour market. It's about those who don't have high school education. When young people lack upper secondary education, there is generally a reason for this. An important reason may be that you have not lived in Sweden during your school time. These young people are present today, for example, in the establishment and have not had the chance to obtain sufficient basic education in the Swedish upper secondary school. Another group of young people have come to Sweden in their teens. They may have attended introductory programs in upper secondary school but have not had time to complete a full education before they turn 20. It is a large group that we must invest in. We also have those who have attended Swedish school all their childhood and who still have not passed the school. There is generally a reason for this, such as ill health, disability, social problems or drug problems. It is important that we tackle this and help these young people to find individually adapted paths back to education, taking into account the difficulties that may have existed. This is what is being done in the cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities is led by Dua, and it has been very successful. Many times you can tailor a path back to education for those who have particular difficulties. Madam President, I would like The 90-day guarantee works. As I said earlier, there are certainly efforts that can be even better and that are not 100%. I'm too likely to think that's the way it is, because often it is. But overall it has been successful that young people today are not left in passivity. Let's focus on the big challenges we have. As far as all young people are concerned, how do we ensure that this important future workforce really gets the right skills in order to contribute to the important supply of skills? When it comes to all young people who are currently in upper secondary school's introduction programme, how do we ensure that they not only become unemployed at the Employment Service but can move forward and get the right skills to get to work? It is also about young people who, for various reasons, may have special difficulties due to a disability, a disease picture or something else that makes them need tailor-made measures both for education and as a way into work. Here we have good experiences of, for example, supported employment and similar efforts.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-122	Madam President, I would like I heard a number of explanations that it looks like it does. Possibly I missed the one I got with me yesterday from northern Uppsala County, i.e. the regional differences that exist. You also need to lift them up and watch them, because there is also an explanation here. Let me repeat that, as I see it, it is primarily young people who have been close to the labour market who have found jobs in recent years. I'm saying it's a natural consequence of the boom. This means that there are many still far from the labour market who will be even further away from the labour market when the recession comes. We have talked a lot about education. The Moderates have proposed vocational school, which would be an education aimed precisely at those who do not have upper secondary school education rapidly receiving training and entering the labour market. I'm worried about the future. I agree that we should focus on what is the problem, but I think it is unfortunate that one beats one's chest and expresses one's satisfaction that one has achieved the guarantee when one has not solved the problem. We need real structural reforms to tackle the dual labour market. Nevertheless, I think this has been a good debate. We did not just get into discussions about the word guarantee and what is included in the guarantee or not. I think the debate has brought us forward and I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-127	Madam President, I would like Young people are our common future. We all depend on them to get into work so that they can pay taxes, support us and ensure that Sweden's industry and welfare works. It is important for every young person, but also for Sweden, that we manage to give all young people a good start in working life. There have been tremendous successes in this regard. This applies, among other things, to falling youth unemployment. Unemployment has fallen most for young people born abroad. There we have the most dramatic reduction. I am particularly pleased with the strong trend in the decline in long-term unemployment among young people, but of course more needs to be done. Madam President, I would like Let me point out one of the things that we are doing right now. It is that we are building local job tracks around Sweden. It is a collaboration between the municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen. I believe that 240 to 250 municipalities are involved, and some 600 local job tracks have now been prepared. You look locally at the local demand for labour. It may be that the local McDonalds need to hire. Then you make a local job track that trains to exactly the job vacancies. It is a very important contribution for the many new arrivals who may not have the right educational background and for whom that path is long. However, it is also an important route for many of the young people who may not have really adapted to the educational paths that have been offered to them so far. I very much hope that we will also be able to continue to reduce unemployment in general and thus cope with the important supply of skills.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-132	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that more people receive treatment for prostate cancer at the right time. The government is making major efforts to shorten waiting times in cancer care. During the term of office we have invested half a billion SEK annually. In particular, this money has been spent on the gradual introduction of standardised healthcare courses in cancer care. We see in several evaluations positive effects on accessibility and that equality is increasing. Together with the county councils, we have determined which times are reasonable for each specific diagnosis of cancer, from a well-founded suspicion of cancer to the start of treatment. There should be time to do all the necessary tests and tests, but there should be no unnecessary waiting times. The goal of a maximum of four weeks' waiting time was set in an early phase of cancer work, before this work was done. By setting specific times for different cancer diagnoses together with county councils and professions, the general four-week goal is overplayed. But ambition and commitment remain strong. We continue to work hard to help county councils shorten waiting times in cancer care, and the government will return in 2018 with a long-term focus on national cancer work. When it comes to prostate cancer specifically, there are still challenges. Prostate cancer is the diagnosis in Swedish cancer care that for several years has had the greatest problems with long waiting periods. That's why the road to the target is long. A concrete challenge has been to get more patients into standardised care processes for prostate cancer. Reported waiting times for 2016 show that patients with cancer who have been investigated according to standard medical procedures receive treatment faster than before. As far as the availability of cancer care is concerned, follow-ups in recent years show that waiting times can often be long and that regional differences are large. In some parts of the country, cancer patients have to wait longer than in other parts of the country, such as starting treatment. Landstingen has made various progress in reducing waiting times, and there is more work to be done here. Tackling the long waiting periods requires continued national commitment. The Government is therefore working to produce proposals based on the views received during the Government's council for future cancer care. This will serve as a basis for the long-term direction of government policies in the field of cancer. In addition, the government's work on structural changes in health care is also central to cancer care. These include, for example, the development of strengthened primary care, the work of concentrating highly specialised care and the emphasis on women's health. The challenges facing the entire healthcare system also apply to cancer care. It is therefore important to have a systemic perspective and to tackle the challenges from different directions. In 2017, the government contributed SEK 55 billion to health care. For 2018 it will be about 62 billion SEK. This means that 20 percent of the county council's budget is government money. In addition, during this parliamentary term, we have made great efforts in the area of health care. In the last budget alone, the historically large investments amount to SEK 5.5 billion. It is money that should go to better care for patients and better conditions for the staff. Healthcare professionals are its most important resource and a prerequisite for good and equal care of high quality. In order to shorten the queues, we must tackle the underlying problems, such as the working environment and the work situation of health care workers. With better conditions, more people want to work in healthcare, and then care places can be kept open and operations carried out. Then the queues will also be shortened. Therefore, the government has allocated 3 billion to improve staff conditions. It is about developing the working environment for employees and work organisation. In this way, we support the county councils in their efforts to provide good conditions for healthcare workers and thus for patients.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-144	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is a long answer that unfortunately has very little substance. Above all, my clear and straightforward question is not answered: what concrete measures does the Minister of Social Affairs intend to take to ensure that more people receive treatment for prostate cancer at the right time? It's about human life. Every year 10,000 men fall ill from prostate cancer, and 2,400 die. People die because cancer is not detected in time and because there is far too much time between diagnosis and treatment. In Sweden, we have a world-class healthcare system. But people don't get care on time. It is not possible to describe the anxiety and pain of someone who is affected but has to wait month after month for treatment. Sometimes it is too late, and metastases can spread throughout the body. Then there's only one exit. Is it possible to tell a cancer patient who is waiting for treatment that the government, together with the county councils, has established which waiting periods are reasonable, from well-founded suspicion of cancer to the start of treatment? No! The fact that you have established which waiting periods are reasonable does not make waiting times shorter, not to any extent. The Minister says that the goal of a maximum of four weeks' waiting time was set at an early stage in cancer work and that the general four-week goal is now overplayed. I understand the Minister can't say exactly that Stefan Löfven has broken his electoral promises. But these are the facts. Medical science has not changed in that respect. The long waiting periods are reprehensible now, and they were reprehensible already four years ago. To quote Stefan Löfven, "Uncertainty and lack of information create great insecurity for the patients affected." Social Democrats in all county councils and regions go to elections to guarantee all patients treatment within four weeks of referral. Is it not embarrassing for the Minister that the county councils and regions led by the Social Democrats have the longest waiting periods? The Minister mentions standardised medical processes in cancer care and the half-billion dollar that the government is investing in their introduction. However, the Minister forgets to mention that after only one month in power the government abolished the so-called queue billion, which the alliance government had introduced. It was an initiative that for several years had a positive effect in reducing care queues. Anyone who can count easily realizes that it is possible to achieve twice as much for 1 billion as for a half, if that billion is used correctly.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-151	Madam President, I would like The government realized very early on that we must do something about the differences in the country in terms of cancer, which is a life-threatening disease. It must not be that your life is determined by where in the country you happen to live. Therefore, the government introduced standardised health care courses. Cancer has always been the focus. We can already see positive effects. It is very gratifying to see such clear results after a relatively short time. It shows that we must continue along this path. As Annika Strandhäll mentions, 20 per cent of the county council's money consists of government money. This is a very large proportion given that the county councils are independent and collect their own taxes. I think it is very positive that the government is taking this national responsibility. One could say that it is up to the county councils themselves, but the government sees healthcare as such an extremely crucial issue that it takes national responsibility. However, some are still regional, and it is ultimately up to county councils to manage their operations. But the government reinforces this work, continues all the time and provides more money with special efforts in particularly important areas, of which cancer care is one. Prostate cancer is a very common disease. It is not always the cause of death; many older men with prostate cancer die from something else. Unfortunately, however, it is the cause of death in many cases. Either way, prostate cancer leads to a great deal of suffering for those affected. That's why this is a very important part of cancer care. A major cancer is breast cancer. Maybe it's even the biggest. There has been little competition with lung cancer, but I think breast cancer is the largest or at least in the top layer. Among men, prostate cancer is a very large form of cancer. It is very important that we show that we are doing everything we can to help both women with breast cancer and men with prostate cancer and that you take all the measures and put in all the medicines. For example, there are medicines that may not lead to survival in the worst cases but give you another few months or even years of quality of life, and then we will put those medicines in. We'll do everything. Of course, it's a priority to save lives. It shouldn't have to go that far. But it is also a question of prolonging life as long as possible and improving the quality of life. As the Minister mentions, it is not only about money but also about staff conditions. Even when money is available, there may be a shortage of staff. Staff feels pressured. It's a tough job situation. It is therefore important that we improve working conditions. I believe that the reinforcement of resources to health care can lead to this, because then you can have more colleagues. Although it is in contractual movements that wages are determined, there are then more resources in the public sphere for wages, working conditions and working conditions, which I think is important. Then we are talking about training places, which we are also investing in. Then there is the possibility of more staff. It becomes more attractive when you make the work environment better. All of this works together. But we must also not forget that the county councils collect taxes. In Skåne, which was mentioned as an example and from which I come, the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, are unfortunately blocking a tax increase. We have the lowest county tax in the country, but we do not have the slightest need. I think we need more money, not least to cope with the queues in cancer care.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-157	Madam President, I would like If there is any debate where I think you should keep a true tone, it is when we talk about cancer and cancer care. I would therefore like to begin by saying that, as Minister of Social Affairs, I have the greatest respect for the work of former Minister of Social Affairs Göran Hägglund of the Christian Democrats in this area. He gave priority to the cancer field. He was involved in developing the cancer strategy that forms the basis for the work that the government has now taken forward. Here we shall be serious and long-term. That is also what the government has tried to be. That's why we set aside special funds for cancer care when we took office, the half billion. It should not be compared to the queue billions of people mentioned by Boriana Åberg who are committed to the entire health care system. We did this to introduce the standardised healthcare processes according to plan throughout Sweden. That is what patients' organisations and the profession wanted, and now we have done it. This year the last three will be introduced. Then, during this term of office, we will have introduced 18 standardised health care courses in order to increase the quality of cancer care and make cancer care more equal throughout the country. By the end of this year, the standardised health care processes will cover 97 percent of all cancer diagnoses in Sweden, and a lot of people will benefit from this when it is fully implemented. They will know which times apply from ax to loaf. The staff in all county councils will have something to relate to. As Hillevi said just now, we are already seeing very good results with the standardised health care processes that were introduced in 2015; waiting times are decreasing in several different cancer diagnoses. However, the queues were very long when it came to prostate cancer. This meant that the challenge was much greater. I therefore think that it is very misplaced when you talk about that this has to do with the political governance of one county council or another. It's not like that. Even Boriana Åberg knows it's not like that over the country. You could talk about cancer care in Stockholm, where a preliminary investigation has been initiated because people died in cancer queues. But this is because they have had problems in Stockholm but also in the whole of County Sweden with recruiting the right skills to carry out the necessary operations. There is a need for a little seriosity in this debate. This is also why the government – in addition to the investment in standardised health care processes and the general increase in state grants to county councils – has during this term of office directed special funds to get more specialised nurses and more trained nurses. We are now continuing medical training and expanding it. We have also provided funds to hire more staff, work with the work environment and make it attractive to work in County Sweden. It is with the right staff and with order and care in cancer care that people will experience both good quality and shorter queues. This means that we will be able to cope with the cancer challenge in Sweden in the long term. We are faced with a situation in which life expectancy is increasing very rapidly. By 2040 there will be a doubling of the number of cancer cases in Sweden. Then I think it is important that we have a long-term view from the political side.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-162	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should be serious in the debate and stick to the concrete issue and not talk about, for example, the taxes in Region Skåne. Moreover, there is nothing called state money. There's only taxpayers' money. I shall now return to the question of standardised medical procedures. Standardised care processes are a method to ensure quality and a uniform treatment process for the patient. The goal is for at least 80 percent of cancer patients to be investigated and treated in accordance with the standard course of care. Does the Minister know what the goal fulfilment for patients with prostate cancer is in Skåne, for example, as we just mentioned? It's 16%. There is a huge difference between 16% and 80%. The situation is the same for other relatively common forms of cancer such as breast cancer, colorectal cancer and testicular cancer. There's goal compliance since less than 40%, and queues are constantly increasing. We can talk about broken promises. In the summer of 2014, Stefan Löfven spoke about healthcare contracts and increased influence for patients. You went to the choice that the individual should be able to influence and have information about the entire care chain: visits, surveys, referrals and everything. Many people who have suffered from prostate cancer feel that they have no influence at all. Until diagnosis has taken place, their concerns are not taken seriously. Some have even been refused tests. There are complaints that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's brochure on prostate cancer is written in such a way that the reader perceives that there are more disadvantages than the benefits of testing. Recently, the National Board of Health and Welfare decided that general tests for prostate cancer should not be introduced. For a layman, it is impossible to evaluate that decision. However, when professors and other experts in the field question that the National Board of Health and Welfare only discusses so-called PSA tests when there are other tests that are safer and have fewer side effects, it is easy for a patient to become even more worried and confused. These are examples of concrete measures that could be taken. I very much hope that the Minister, in his next reply, will concretise himself and not hover over a lot of other areas such as co-workers and the working environment. These are very important areas. But the discussion is about the treatment of prostate cancer at the right time.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-169	Madam President, I would like It may seem that the discussion about how many colleagues you have, the working environment, working conditions and wages do not belong here. But they actually do. We can see that there are many people working in health care who get sick leave because of tough workload and tough conditions. Unfortunately, given the needs we have in the future, too few people feel that it is a job for the future. Not least, it was mentioned that we will have more elderly and twice as many cancer cases. We need more staff, and that must be a job for the future. Today we have county councils that feel that resources are not the main problem, although this is often a very big problem, but a lack of staff. If you do not have the right skills, you have to cancel operations and other treatments, and then there will be long queues. That is why the issue belongs in this debate. Cancer care is, to a large extent, specialist care, and this requires specialist expertise. Then we must ensure that we have that competence by having more training places, something that the government is investing in, and by investing in working conditions, working conditions and wages. It goes hand in hand. There is no contradiction between improving the conditions for staff and training more and investing more resources in health care. The government really does its part through general state grants to the county councils but also special investments in different areas. This applies, in particular, to standardised processes of care for cancer. But the regions must also do their part. As I mentioned, it is crucial in Skåne that we have both a lack of skills and a lack of resources. We need a tax increase, and we also need more staff. It is important what the government does, but the county council must also do its part.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-175	Madam President, I would like I shall first address the issues which Boriana Å berg did not consider to be appropriate in this debate. It can be noted that the county council in Skåne had been able to carry out the tax increase needed to improve the quality of healthcare and short queues would probably also have helped prostate cancer patients there. But the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have consistently opposed this throughout the term of office. It has consequences, because you can't do magic with your knees. In the second part, I really have to say that the issue of staff is absolutely central not only to cancer care but to all health care in Sweden. The needs of Swedish healthcare are increasing exponentially. There will be 300,000 more 70-plus in 2025. There will be 300 000 more children in Sweden in 2025. We see that with the rapidly ageing population, for example, chronic diagnosis increases and not least cancer. This means that the future of the Swedish healthcare system will be about major investments for any government that sits. But it is clear that giving priority to tax cuts and defoliating Swedish health care systems is not going to meet these challenges. If we are to talk about staff linked to cancer care, you cannot carry out any cancer surgery or prostate cancer surgery unless there are surgical nurses, anaesthetic nurses or specialist physicians. It is today one of the basic problems and one of the reasons for the increase in queues. That is one of the reasons why this government did the first thing it did about politics. In fact, when we took office in autumn 2014, sick leave in Sweden had increased by 70 per cent in four years. Those who top those statistics are the personnel of health care and long-term care. These are the ones we need best as the needs increase. We can see that it is a totally unsustainable situation to think that we can continue with a policy that does not start to train more or, for that matter, invest in ensuring that we have more decent working conditions so that people can work in health care without getting sick leave. Otherwise, it does not make sense, and then we will not be able to deliver good health care. When it comes to screening prostate cancer, which Boriana Åberg was involved in, it is not for us politicians to talk about what medical methods should be used in health care. It's up to experts, professionals, science and proven experience. That's why the National Board of Health and Welfare has that mission. The day the National Board of Health and Welfare says that now we have a good enough method to screen prostate cancer, this government will be the first to make sure to introduce it. I have also made that clear. But we will not introduce methods that are not supported by the National Board of Health and Welfare. We can't do that. Finally, it can be observed that, in terms of the standard course of care, it is extremely concrete. This means access to contact nurses, support for primary care and support for both the profession and patient organisations. I spent parts of last year in consultations with patient organisations in cancer care, profession from cancer care and researchers. They unanimously support standardised health care processes as one of the most important methods for improving quality, short waiting times and creating equal cancer care. We shall have a serious debate on these issues.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-185	Madam President, the Minister for Social Affairs and Hillevi Larsson! Tax increases are not a universal recipe – quite the contrary. You have raised taxes by 44 billion, and care queues have doubled. You Social Democrats are at all very good at going in opposition to yourselves. When you have government power and it is something that does not work, it is always the fault of the previous government. You never admit your shortcomings. You always draw with new promises: during the next parliamentary term, the medical queues will disappear. Prostate cancer patients will receive care on time, and you will invest in the staff. Everything will take place in the next parliamentary term. But you have the power now! Do something now! 2,400 men die of prostate cancer every year.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-188	Madam President, I would like To do something now – that's exactly what we've done during this term of office when we've really taken care of the problems that Swedish healthcare faces in the long term. We have trained about 3,000 more people who can work in health care. We have invested in staff, changed policies and introduced standardised health care processes. We have introduced 18 of these during their term of office, and they are starting to show good results. It's concrete, and that's doing something. It will mean a lot to the patients who suffer from cancer. I am not going to stand here and engage in popcorn politics and say that we can solve the challenges of cancer care in six months, because there is no one who can do that. It is about politicians also having to dare to say: We are repositioning this, and it will take time. But we are already seeing results, and it will be even better. We have increased the resources to the county councils during the term by 13 billion. It's not doing nothing. Money does not solve everything, and that is why we support this with methodological changes and standardised health care processes. We train more staff and make sure you get more hands in the care. But as I said, I'm not gonna stand here and say it's some quick fix. No one should have to wait a single day too long for their cancer surgery no matter who runs the county council in which they live. It's my goal to get rid of it. As a national minister and responsible for the issues, I am prepared to support the county councils, whether it is moderates or social democrats who rule.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-192	Madam President, I would like Solveig Zander has asked me what measures I intend to take to address the problems that exist to get more dentists to practice their profession in Sweden. Solveig Zander highlights among other things that there is a shortage of dentists in Sweden. One measure, according to Solveig Zander, could be to make better use of the skills of dentists with a foreign degree, including those with a Polish dental degree and persons with dental training from outside the EU and EEA. Legitimation is a guarantee of a certain level of knowledge and suitability to practice a profession. For healthcare professionals, it is the National Board of Health and Welfare who is responsible for ensuring that only those who meet the requirements for obtaining a licence should receive a licence. This means, among other things, that the authority must examine whether the requirements for knowledge, skills and approaches required to obtain a Swedish licence as a dentist are met regardless of the country from which the applicant has his/her education. For those who have dental training from outside the EU, there are three ways to obtain a Swedish licence. One way is to apply for regular dental education at a university with permission to issue a dental degree and obtain a Swedish dental degree. Another way is to study a supplementary education for people with completed foreign dental education at university. The third way is to go through the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's process for knowledge testing. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government proposed a substantial increase in funding for supplementary education. In connection with the initiative, the government decided in the same year to commission several higher education institutions to plan for and build supplementary education programmes. Among others, Malmö University, the current university, was commissioned to build a complementary dental education. During 2018, the University of Gothenburg, Karolinska Institutet and Malmö University have the opportunity to organise additional education for people with foreign dental education with special funding. The design of the programme is based on the evidence and assessments of the higher education institutions. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a process for proficiency tests to ensure that the applicant meets the requirements required to be granted Swedish dental identification. The Agency first examines the applicant's dental training in order to determine whether it is comparable to the Swedish one. If the applicant's dental training is considered to be comparable, the applicant conducts a proficiency test consisting of a theoretical and a practical part. According to information from the National Board of Health and Welfare, the agency works in close dialogue with KI to streamline the process for the proficiency test. The efforts made by the government to provide additional training for qualified health professionals, so-called fast track, now include dentists in practice. The rapid track will prepare the dentists for the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's proficiency test and Swedish dental identification. In 2017, 45 dentists with education outside the EU were certified to be compared to 2016, when the number was 42. The Government has previously provided permanent funds to the National Board of Health and Welfare's administrative grant to improve the efficiency of the processing of medically trained personnel's IDs. Since 2015, processing times have been considerably shortened, from 16 months to about 2 months. During 2017, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has increased the number of proficiency tests so that the agency can offer knowledge tests for all 21 professions with licence requirements in healthcare. For people with training in the EU, EU law provides for the automatic recognition of professional qualifications acquired by an applicant in another country. There has been a situation in which persons who have studied and obtained a dental degree in Poland are not granted Swedish dental identification because Poland requires Polish to be able to carry out clinical training. Therefore, persons who do not master Polish cannot obtain the certificate of formal qualifications required by the Professional Qualifications Directive and cannot then be granted dental identification in Sweden. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has therefore rejected applications for Swedish dental identification. The rejection of the National Board of Health and Welfare has been examined by the Administrative Court in Stockholm, which makes the same assessment as the National Board of Health and Welfare. The Government plans to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to investigate how the resulting situation can be addressed in a long-term and sustainable manner. The problems highlighted by Solveig Zander are therefore known to the government. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and current universities are actively working to improve the way to identification for people with education from countries other than Sweden. In this work, it is important that patient safety is not compromised in any way. It is also important that patients continue to have confidence in licensed dentists and that they possess the skills and knowledge for which their identification is a guarantee, regardless of the country from which they have their education.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. It was a long and wordful answer that was explanatory and good in every way. But I note that the Minister also says that this is a well-known problem. I therefore miss the concrete measures to be taken in the proposal. I will come back to that. This is serious. It's about our health. It is about children who do not receive preventive dental care, and we know quite well what it leads to. These are older people who do not get the opportunity to come to the dentist because of the long care queues, which means that they cannot eat the right diet, for example. It is also a question of this being unfair in our country. It's very unfairly distributed. In the cities it is easier to get to a dentist, but up in the sparsely populated area it is almost impossible. There I see a rather clear dividing line between the Center Party and the government. We think of close care throughout the country, and we think of the whole country. What is now the case is discrimination. This is also about the new arrivals when it comes to dental identification and being able to start working. We want to see rapid action to get to work, but apparently the Social Democrats do not want that. SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, says in its report from the end of 2017 that it takes five years to get into work with supplementary education. We want you to get into work quickly – to be able to contribute to Swedish welfare, of course, but also to be able to have a job and support yourself and become integrated. What can the government do to remedy this better than it has done? That's a question I have. Then it is said that 45 and 42 people graduated, and so we know that there are several hundred in line to get the opportunity to do so. In September 2017, the dental shortage was so great that 200 dentists were missing. Fast track, Minister, is important. That's what the minister said you'd been working on. One person out of 121 passed the proficiency test at the end of 2017. The Minister also says that it is planned to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to investigate the situation that has arisen in the long term and in a sustainable way and then be able to take action. This is well known, and that's how the government plans. I thought the government had already commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to investigate this. This is a flaw, Minister, and one has to do something about it. When you say it's well known, it means you have to do something fast. In particular, it applies to the Polish students who received changed rules as late as 2016 and have not had an opportunity to complete their degree after the new rules came. They cannot work here in Sweden. We do not have an AT service in Sweden for dentists. You really have to do something there. If I am not misinformed, there are about 50 people, not a great many, but there must be concrete proposals on what to do.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for this interpellation! It's very important. I fully agree with that and am fully aware of the dental shortage that we have in Sweden. I am out occasionally and meet both dentists and public dental services who describe the situation that is increasingly alarming. That is also precisely why I really wanted to give a comprehensive answer to the interpellation as to how the government views the issue and what we have actually done during this parliamentary term. Therefore, I thought it was important to clearly describe that there are three different ways of obtaining a Swedish licence if you have a dental education from outside the EU and that the government has actually taken measures quite forcefully in relation to all these different parts. Not least, the Government has taken strong measures to streamline and shorten the work of the National Board of Health and Welfare on the processing of the application for a licence, which has in fact resulted in an average reduction of 14 months in waiting times for the first trial. We provided special resources for this, so now waiting times are no longer 16 months, but they are 2. So we see results. This has been made possible by us adding an extra SEK 75 million to the National Board of Health and Welfare in 2016. It was a rather powerful initiative that we have then held in during 2017 and 2018. We will contribute 42 million in 2018 and see that this will remain in place in the future. Even the proficiency test that Solveig Zander raised in his post is now being carried out in a new way compared to before. Karolinska Institutet organises, on behalf of the National Board of Health and Welfare, the proficiency test, which has been designed to be able to assess the applicant's knowledge in a legally secure manner. It is no secret that the National Board of Health and Welfare has received criticism for this process, including from people who have completed the proficiency test. As a result, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is now working with KI to ensure, develop and improve the process with the knowledge tests. We would like to have these dentists out in Sweden. Since then there has actually been a development of the test, which we are happy about, although there is still a bit left. I would also like to say something about the issue that you raise when it comes to those who have a Polish dental degree. As I described, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, against this background that Solveig Zander is also familiar with, has rejected applications for a Swedish licence from persons who have completed a dental degree in Poland. The rejections have also been examined by the Administrative Court in Stockholm, which has followed the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's line and supports it. The assessment is that it would be contrary to the Professional Qualifications Directive, for example, to introduce such an authorisation as has been made in Norway, and therefore it has not been a way forward for us. The agreement that Poland has made with Norway is also in the Commission for scrutiny. Finland makes the same assessment as the National Board of Health and Welfare in relation to these applications based on the agreement between Poland and Norway, and applications for a dental licence are therefore rejected.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-216	Madam President, I would like It's good that the minister is out seeing dentists. We have not met there at any time, which otherwise we do because we visit the same places. Now it's about dentists, and I have to say that if you've taken strong action and there's still only 1 in 121 who can handle the test and SKL still means – and I trust them – that it takes five years to do so little about the shortcomings that exist. Therefore, I can say that I very much agree that the requirements on knowledge, skills and approach for Swedish identification should of course also be met by those who have completed their education elsewhere. When it comes to education in Poland, you know what the regulations are if you apply there now, but if you had almost finished your education when the rules were changed – you might have passed the last or the penultimate semester – you stand flat today. Then you can't work in Sweden. That is why I have a proposal to extend the specific regulations and to instruct the National Board of Health and Welfare to draw up specific requirements for this particular category that should be met during the training or supervision programme and to ensure quality that the regions and county councils carry out this task in such a way that it can be equated with an AT service in another country. That is to invent a way of coping with that particular category. The Minister cannot mean that they will start a new education in Sweden to become a dentist? That would be absurd. Here it is important to do something specific for them. Moreover, much more can be done for those who are from outside the EU and the EEA. For example, the Swedish Public Employment Service can be commissioned to take responsibility for dental-trained staff so that they can ausculate and practice in dental care. It can also be ensured that the CUT programme, i.e. the special supplementary education, is also located in Umeå. In this way, those who attend the training will be able to practice in Norrland where we have the greatest deficiency. That could make them get out of work faster. It could also enable Arbetsförmedlingen and the National Board of Health and Welfare to have a joint task to be responsible for preparatory training for those who come from outside the EU or from EE S countries. A specific knowledge test could be introduced for them, just like those available for doctors. It can't be that hard to come up with. These are extremely important, urgent and simple ways of doing so. Last but not least, you have the opportunity to receive a start-up allowance when you do additional traineeships. But if you happen to work extra to earn some money, you can get rid of the establishment allowance. This cannot be reasonable. All students want to be able to work and get an extra money. Make sure that the establishment allowance is corrected for those who are going to supplement and do internships to become licensed dentists in our country, Minister! These were concrete, simple proposals. I'll give them to the minister.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for your great commitment to the issue and for being concrete and committed to how we can solve the dental shortage in a wise and good way! As I said in my reply, today we have three ways for those who have received their dental training outside the EU to obtain a licence. They can apply for regular dental training. They can also study a supplementary education for people who have completed dental education from higher education. The third is what I mentioned in my previous speech, namely the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's process of knowledge testing. We have worked hard to improve the skills test due, for example, to the criticism that has been made. It has now become clearer for the participants, and opportunities for preparation for the knowledge tests have also been improved. In fact, as far as the other way is concerned – to take a supplementary education in order to obtain a degree – the government has made major efforts during its term of office. Already in 2016 we proposed in the budget proposal a substantial increase in funding for supplementary education. The total investment is estimated to be SEK 470 million including study funding by 2020. Today, only Umeå University does not carry out additional dental education, of the four universities that are authorised to issue a dental degree. In 2016 we also decided on assignments to several higher education institutions to plan for and build supplementary education for people with completed foreign education, including a commission to Malmö University to build a complementary dental education. In fact, in 2018, 19 higher education institutions have the opportunity to organise supplementary education with special funding. I would like to come back to the matter of a dental degree from Poland. It goes without saying that those people who have been caught should not have to start over. I know that this issue has been discussed in the Parliamentary Social Committee, for example, where my Secretary of State Agneta Karlsson was on 6 March to discuss the situation of people with dental training from Poland and how it can be solved. Agneta then informed that the government plans to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to review the issue with the aim of finding a solution. The measures that could possibly be taken to resolve the situation need to be carefully considered and investigated, because a solution for these dentists may also have implications for the recognition of other health professions from other countries in the EU. That is why, in my previous speech, although I did not have time to complete it completely, I explained a little bit about the complexity that not only we but also other Nordic countries have encountered on this issue. We have a firm focus on finding ways forward there, so that we can use this resource in Sweden in the best possible way.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. When the government has invested an enormous amount of money in this issue and it has not yet produced results, we must think about doing something else. I want there to be swift and clear proposals, because this does not need to be investigated anymore. This is well known, the Minister has even written. As the Secretary of State was on the Social Affairs Committee on 6 March, I thought that the Minister would come up with proposals for me here today on what the Government intends to do further. One cannot do a special training for dentists, says the Minister, because it can have consequences for other similar professions in health care. We have special measures for doctors who dentists are not involved in – we have different courses for them. Dentists don't have any interns, but doctors do. So you can create different possibilities for our dentists to be able to work. A dentist who has training from Poland can actually work in Finland. Is it not as high a requirement in Finland for the quality of what is being done as we do in Sweden? Yes, you do. It is therefore unique that Sweden treats these well-educated young people in this way. It is a disaster for young people, who cannot go to work and earn their living. This leads to enormous personal tragedies, and I really want to eliminate this. That's why I'm committed, Minister. I hope that the Minister has taken this very seriously and is contributing to a rapid change.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-235	Madam President, I would like Of course, we take the whole question of how we can get more dentists who are active in Sweden very seriously. That is why, in this interpellation debate, I have carefully described how we are working on this issue. In fact, the dimensioning of complementary dental education has increased since 2014. Then we had 30 full-year students when it comes to complementary dental education, and in 2018 we have 46. The dimension of the programme is based on the foundation of the higher education institutions. The teaching institutions consider that there is a search print for the additional dental training, but, among other things, because it is difficult to get so-called VFU sites or clinical placements, the universities that now conduct the training have assessed that they cannot currently expand it further. I would like to come back to the question of dentists and the Polish problem and emphasise once again that it is the Government's ambition to resolve it. We have been clear that we will look at how to solve it in the best way, but it is not simply. Norway has, as I said, entered into an agreement with Poland whereby persons with a Polish dental degree may be authorised to pursue the profession in Norway without having completed clinical training in Poland. However, the Stockholm Administrative Court considers that it is not possible to do this in Sweden. Finland makes the same assessment as our social security board. Denmark has had a solution in the past, but it has now been withdrawn. We want to solve this in a sustainable way, long-term, so that we can take advantage of the 300 potential dentists involved, so that they can work in Sweden. Thank you for a good and committed debate!
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-241	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng and Jörgen Warborn have each asked me whether I and the government intend to submit a proposal on welfare gains to Parliament and how I intend to justify such a proposal. I'll answer the questions together. The Government has submitted the bill Authorisation to receive public funding in the field of social services, assistance payments and school law-regulated activities to the Riksdag on 20 March. With the proposal, the government takes on board taxpayers' desire to reinvest public funds as a general rule in welfare activities for the benefit of children, students, users and employees. The Government considers that the proposal is necessary and proportionate in order to protect the public interest. In the bill, the Government has taken into account the Council's views and made some clarifications and changes in accordance with the Swedish Law Council's proposal. But on some issues the government makes a different assessment than the Law Council. These are fully reflected in the bill. The Government has also developed a memorandum adjusting the proposal in order to better take into account the conditions of small companies and ideas-driven actors. The memorandum is for referral until 19 April. The Government has also developed the impact description in the bill compared to the basis of the Welfare Investigation and the Council's referral. I would like to emphasise that the government's view is that the impact assessment of this proposal is much more comprehensive than is normal for this type of reform. Compared with, for example, the free school reform in the 1990s and the introduction of mandatory care choices in primary care, the impact assessment of this proposal is considerably more detailed. Finally, I would like to point out that a majority of the Swedish people want to remove unregulated profits from welfare. The government estimates that welfare will need to be provided with substantial resources over the next few years. This applies not least to school and care for the elderly. At the same time, it is not reasonable to allow large dividends to profit-making stakeholders. The results of the SOM Institute's searches reinforce the government's view that the legitimacy of welfare risks being undermined if large parts of public resources are taken out of welfare and distributed to the owners of private companies. This is particularly true when many of the major welfare actors operate in such a way that their income is not even taxed in Sweden and therefore they themselves, to the same extent as others, do not contribute to the financing of welfare.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-245	Madam President, I would like We are now standing in this Chamber again and debating, to say the least, the controversial welfare inquiry – an investigation that has been out for a referral and which, according to the Minister, has now been recast into a legislative proposal. Rarely has an investigation such as this received so much criticism from all possible and impossible places! Perhaps it would be the exit taxation that the Social Democratic Government gave a commission to the Tax Agency to design. It was an investigation conducted entirely by the Tax Authority without any people from the business community or from any other source. So it went as it went. The government realized that it was simply not sustainable. The consequences for SMEs in particular had been disastrous. The proposal ended up in the trash bin where this investigation should also end up. The consequences of the S-labelled Ilmar Reepalus's proposal for a profit ban in welfare are at least as fatal, not least for small and medium-sized companies in welfare and not least for all pupils, sick and elderly who have chosen their care, their school, their care of that particular performer. This applies not least to all employees who are no longer able to choose an employer other than the one to whom they are referred. Worst of all, this can lead to a change of business. Madam President, I would like Criticism is massive, and it does not only come from entrepreneurial positions; it comes from, to say the least, heavy bodies. The Law Council has now examined the Government's and Left Party's proposal to limit profits in welfare. It is estimated that this is not a good proposal. The criticisms made by the Legislative Council against the proposal concern, among other things, the lack of impact assessment for companies operating or for those who depend on their services. The Law Council also believes that the proposal is poorly prepared and may even be contrary to the Constitution. The Swedish National Audit Office also saw the investigation. In its opinion, the Swedish National Audit Office says that the investigation has major shortcomings in assessing the impact of a potential profit constraint on both the industry itself and the customers, i.e. the students, patients and our elderly. A not completely unknown former Minister of Finance, Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, and party colleague of the Minister says: This is worse than the idea of employee funds. My simple question to the Minister of Civil Affairs is whether the Minister agrees with Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. Or does the Minister think that the words of the Left Party leader Jonas Sjöstedt are heavier?
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-251	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. When I listened to the answer, I asked myself the question: Are the Social Democrats a governmentable party? The lack of impact assessment is significant and can have serious consequences. The criticism of heavy consultation bodies is massive. Then the question must be asked: Are the Social Democrats a government-worthy party? The fact that the government is directly hostile to entrepreneurship has become clear during this term of office. In 2012, the business community was met by a newly elected S-leader who, with a business plan and an industrial chancellor, would reindustrialise Sweden and strengthen entrepreneurship. It was probably some who thought that Löfven, Damberg and perhaps Shekarabi were a new and more entrepreneurial type of Social Democrats. But now we have the truth. Taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship have been increased by 40 billion. New enterprise is the lowest in ten years. Head office leaves the country. The overall assessment of the business environment in Sweden fell last year to the lowest since the Swedish Enterprise started measuring – a bottom quotation. The Social Democratic-led government has introduced or threatens to introduce a series of taxes and regulatory changes that directly hit the business community. It is a deterioration of RUT and ROT, an increase in employers' contributions, an increase in marginal taxes, a threat of wealth tax, air tax and what we are debating today: a ban on profits in the welfare sector that strikes against a great many welfare companies and threatens freedom of choice. The Social Democrats are here presenting a proposal which is purely ideologically justified. They simply do not want independent actors in welfare. They are completely immune to the criticism of the lack of the impact assessment. The Board is a decision-making body within the Swedish Agency for Growth, whose members are appointed by the Government. The Regulatory Council's task is to review and comment on the quality of impact assessments. On almost all points where the Council assesses the Government's proposal, criticism is received. I will read these points so that the Government has the opportunity to comment on as many areas as he can on how the Government has met its own authority's criticism. The Council finds the description of alternative solutions and the effects of non-regulation. The Council finds the description of the need for special information actions inadequate. The Council finds the description of the impact on the administrative costs of companies to be inadequate. The Council finds the description of the impact on companies' other costs and activities to be inadequate. The Council finds the description of the impact on competitive conditions on the undertakings concerned to be inadequate. The Council finds the description of the impact of the regulation on companies in other respects inadequate. The Council finds the description of special consideration for small businesses in the design of the regulation to be inadequate. So, Minister: How have you changed the bill to face this criticism?
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-264	Madam President, I would like Thank you Helena Bouveng and Jörgen Warborn for the speeches, for the interpellations and for giving me the opportunity to explain here today why it is so important for this government – and it should be equally important for this Parliament – to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on Swedish school and Swedish elderly care and not allowed to leak from the operations. The students who are here today deserve a parliament and a set of rules that are on their side and who are prepared to fight for the tax money to be spent on their teachers. Our elderly deserve a parliament that fights for the money for elderly care to benefit the users. Madam President, I would like As Minister of Civil Affairs with responsibility for the municipalities, I often travel around our country. This week I've been to Västmanland. Tomorrow I'm going to visit Halland. The rest of the week I will visit Jämtland. No matter where I go, I hear about the enormous economic and operational challenges that exist in welfare. Given that we are growing, that we are getting older and that our consumption of welfare services is increasing, we have really big challenges in school, elderly care and health care. There's not enough money. Some conclusions can be drawn from this: I often meet staff in the care of the elderly, such as nurses, who testify to the understaffing they have and that colleagues are on sick leave because of the stress. I often meet teachers who testify that there are not enough of them in the schools. When I meet these employees in welfare, I think: How can it be that there are forces in the Riksdag, now led by moderates and Swedish democrats, who want to fight for unlimited profits in welfare and unlimited profits from Swedish schools and elderly care? How can some Members of this House view it as their task to fight for a regulatory framework whereby tax money leaves business? Instead of the money being used to hire more teachers, raise teachers' salaries and improve the conditions for teachers and nurses, we are now allowing a leak. If we had discussed this at the end of the 1990s, I would have understood whether there was an ignorance on the part of moderate and Swedish democratic representatives. But today, with our knowledge of the effects of unlimited profits, not least in terms of the conditions for staff in welfare, and about the leakage from Swedish welfare, I wonder how it is that actors in this House are fighting for unlimited profit withdrawals. Let me conclude again by saying what I have said many times in this House: We stand up for freedom of choice, diversity and the ability of all pupils and parents to choose schools. However, this must be combined with a regulatory framework that ensures that our tax money is spent on what it is intended for and that any surplus is reinvested in teachers and nurses and is not distributed as a profit and thus leaving the business.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-271	Mr President, I would like to If the minister had really been on the side of the students, the elderly and those in need of care, he would have focused on quality, knowledge and diversity, not on anything else. The Swedish National Audit Office also has many critical objections. I cannot read them all out, because it would take all my speaking time. I choose a quote that really describes the Swedish National Audit Office's approach to the investigation's proposal. The Swedish National Audit Office says that it is prematurt, you – and you – and that – as the investigation does – dismiss the possibility of setting clearer and more detailed quality requirements on companies as an alternative to profit limitation and that the investigation has not sufficiently analysed the public financial impact of the proposal. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office uses the word and prematurely in its statement that the investigation has simply not properly found out whether the proposed profit ceiling is really needed to ensure quality. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned the Law Council and the Swedish National Audit Office, but the Swedish Competition Authority also fits in with this criticism. The Competition Authority considers that the investigation has failed to demonstrate the need to regulate profits in welfare. They also consider that the investigation has not shown that there are either over-profits or selection problems in the welfare markets where assignments are awarded after opening up to competition. The Bar Association is also clear in its position. It believes that there is a risk that the proposal would be contrary to the section of the government on freedom to conduct a business, to the European Convention and to freedom of movement within EU law. So we have an investigation, Mr President, which is being seen by many heavy bodies. We have a national audit that uses the concept of a "premature" approach, a competition body that strongly questions whether there really are over-profits and selection problems and a lawyer's community that sees a risk of it being contrary to the European Convention. And then I have not even mentioned the 4 500 welfare companies that will be closed down on such a restriction. We are talking about small home care companies, schools, health centres and retirement homes. How can we have a government that even intends to make such a proposal? Just as my colleague, Jörgen Warborn, said before, I probably never experienced a corporate anti-government like the one that exists now. How can a government turn a deaf ear to the Swedish business community, where four out of five jobs are created? It is not supposed to be Jonas Sjöstedt who has the solution to the Social Democrats' promise to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, nor the solution to ensuring the quality of welfare. The Minister speaks so warmly that the government wants freedom of choice, diversity and quality. Then make sure that more players can be involved and contribute to such a development in fact! This is not done when you oppose private actors who are involved in developing the quality of their welfare.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-279	Mr President, I would like to In my first speech, I gave the Government the opportunity to respond to the criticism addressed by the Rule Council. Not in one word did the Government choose to respond to it. With ideological blindfolds on, he didn't give a single answer. Let me make a few comments on the criticism that has been levelled at the government's proposals from other heavy consultation bodies. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the report of the investigation is not a sound basis for decision. Among other things, it is considered that it is not clear to what extent companies may leave the market and to what extent there is the readiness and capacity of the public to meet this. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the proposal represents a significant deviation from fundamental principles that apply to Swedish company law and that it seems particularly important that the impact assessment is thorough. The National Board of Trade points out that the proportionality assessment of the proposal by the investigation is inadequate. The Swedish Financial Control Agency considers that it is not possible to make a specific assessment of the socio-economic or public financial impact based on the evidence provided by the investigation. Statskontoret considers that the investigation has not presented any evidence that makes it possible to assess whether the benefits of its proposal are proportionate to the possible consequences. Uppsala University believes that the proposal is in practice a profit ban and that it is an ineffective measure whose consequences are insufficiently investigated. According to the Legislative Council, all this criticism is not unfounded. Let me remind you that the Law Council is not just any consultation body. It includes judges from the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. They will examine how legislative proposals relate to the constitutions and the legal order in general. Allow me to quote directly from the Council's opinion. As far as local self-government is concerned, the Swedish Law Council writes that if it were correct that the proposed rules would severely restrict access to individual entrepreneurship in the areas of welfare in question, this would in practice mean a very significant intervention in self-government. ..................................................... As regards the wording of one of our constitutions on freedom to conduct a business, the Swedish Law Council writes: ..................................................... The Legislative Council continues: a more in-depth analysis of constitutional issues is associated with the risk of introducing a regulation such as the proposed one. ..................................................... In view of the strong criticism of heavy consultation bodies, including the government's own authorities, I would like to ask: do the Minister for Civil Affairs and the Government think that the consequences of their legislative proposals are sufficiently investigated, as can be expected from a government-worthy party? It would have been very interesting to have a clear 'yes' or 'no' on this subject in the Minutes, with justification. The Swedish Law Council, the Swedish Rule Council, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the National Board of Trade, Statskontoret and Uppsala University do not seem to think so.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-291	Mr President, I would like to In Helena Bouvengs and Jörgen Warborn's posts a group shines with their absence: the Swedish people. There is not a word about the large majority of the Swedish people who want to limit the profits in welfare. There is not a word about the large majority of moderate voters who want to limit the profits of welfare and school. There is a reason for this, Mr President, which has nothing to do with the arguments that we have now heard from the pulpit. The people, our citizens, remember the JB bankruptcy. They remember reports of abuse in the care of the elderly as an effect of the great pursuit of profits and the desire to maximise profits by reducing costs and thus also staffing in the care of the elderly. The Swedish people have been following this issue since the mid-1990s and see the benefits of diversity and choice, but also the disadvantages of big profit hunting in welfare. The Swedish people now know that we are alone in the European Union and in the Western world in allowing unlimited profits from the publicly funded school. The Swedish people know that it is possible to combine freedom of choice and influence for users with a regulatory framework on how resources should be used and that stops the leakage. Has this question been carefully investigated? Yes, compare this investigation, this debate and this criticism, which are inherent in such a legislative process, with the discussion and basis that preceded the reform of the free school system. Or let us go back to when the law on freedom of choice was introduced or when the coercion of Sweden's county council to introduce freedom of choice systems in healthcare was introduced. Were there any real impact assessments then? Do we know how these systems have affected the development of welfare costs, or do we believe that the resources of welfare are unlimited? The moderate starting point seems to be that it does not matter what rules you have, because resources are unlimited. One news for my dear friends here is that we have limited resources in care for the elderly and in school. Then we must decide to have rules on how to use these scarce resources, so that they are not used for free-school establishments in Norway or Saudi Arabia, but for salaries for Swedish teachers and nurses. That's where we stand today. Our tax money, which is to go to welfare and school, finances the construction of free schools and independent preschools in Norway or, as we have recently been able to read, in Saudi Arabia. Mr President, I would like to We have enough challenges in our welfare. I and the government are in favour of this proposal, because we know that rules are needed, so that we avoid more cases like the JB bankruptcy, which was, of course, preceded by large-scale profit payments. We know that the regulations are needed if we are not to see repeated Caremascanandals. We know that it is an obligation to our taxpayers. We also know that there is a very strong lobbyism against this proposal, this will of the people. But somewhere the voice of the Swedish people must prevail on this issue.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-298	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not only the heavy authorities and entrepreneurs who have spoken out, but also the idea-driven organisations, which are often highlighted as positive examples in the debate on profits. It may not be surprising that the government has chosen to exempt them, since it is well aware that they too cannot cope with a profit ban. The Forum's consultation stated that it supports the idea that welfare is characterised by social responsibility, quality and diversity. But it is also written that the proposal makes it impossible to pursue private welfare, whether it is profit-sharing or non-profit-making. Profits can be reinvested in the business, so that social responsibility, diversity and quality can be achieved. Speaking of the Swedish people, I can inform the Minister that if you ask the Swedish people if they think that freedom of choice and quality in healthcare, care and school is important, it turns out – as well as I do – that there is a clear majority that says yes. This is something that the investigation completely ignores. I went to school in England. I do not think we want their systems, where it is a necessity to pay high fees to get into the right university or college. I am very proud that we have the system we have in Sweden. I don't think we should look at other countries. I am proud of the system we are alone in. That is why I would urge the Minister to put this proposal in the wastebasket, like the proposal on exit taxation. Let us focus together on how to ensure the quality of our welfare. This must be more important than taking into account Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-303	Mr President, I would like to I have asked the Government a few questions, but so far I have not received a single answer. These have been ideological answers. We think differently on this issue. I've been trying to understand why the government is putting forward a bill that is so badly grounded. I have asked myself the question of whether social democracy is capable of government, and I have put that question in the light of the criticism of this proposal. The Council finds that the impact assessment does not meet the requirements of Sections 6 and 7 of the Regulation on regulatory impact assessment. In conclusion, after listing a number of headings in the opinion: It is very heavy criticism, but I have not received any answers from the Government in this regard. The Social Democrats are therefore putting forward a proposal whose consequences are warned by several consultation bodies. These are consequences that can affect a great many people – all the people who have chosen an independent actor for their welfare services. They are now in danger of no longer having any choice. Soon the school may no longer exist for the students referred to earlier by the Government, a school that they and their parents have chosen. Executors may close down. This is a risk that several consultation bodies point to. This in turn means that municipalities must be ready to take over these services at short notice. Freedom of choice is threatened for thousands of people. Entrepreneurship is under threat. The proposal is very doubtful in relation to our constitutions. Yet the government chooses to present a bill. Are the Social Democrats capable of government? That is probably a question that every voter will have to ask in the forthcoming elections.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-309	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Bouveng and Jörgen Warborn, for a good discussion that clarifies the differences in Swedish politics! During this debate, I have come to think of the comments made by bourgeois ministers during the last term of office, when we received reports of maladministration due to the pursuit of profit in welfare. I do not know if my opponents remember how Anders Borg said that the venture capitalists would not be allowed in the publicly funded welfare or how other ministers said that anyone who is looking for big profits has nothing in Swedish welfare to do. It was rhetorical grips and comments after reports of abuses that had arisen because of the lack of regulations and because we had allowed a profit hunt in Swedish welfare, unlike what had been done in other, comparable countries. But now we come to the moment of truth. Now it's not just comments and fine words. On 4 June, this House will take a position on whether we are going to have a regulatory framework that places demands on those who receive Swedish tax money to carry out welfare activities in our country or whether we are going to continue to allow the pursuit of profit in our society. Elections are made by this House, and every Member of Parliament taking part in that vote has a responsibility. In the end, it is about how we are going to use the tax money that we forcefully take in from the citizens to fund common affairs. The Swedish people have chosen side long ago. They expect the benefits of welfare to be limited. The question now goes to the Members of Parliament. Thank you for this debate.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-315	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I have taken or what measures I plan to take to secure the Swedish road network and reduce the number of wildlife accidents. I am aware of the problems caused by wildlife accidents on our roads and railways every year. In snow-rich winters, such as this one, accidents in many places have been more than usual. The government therefore considers it important that society should work long-term to reduce the number. There are many different factors that have an impact on wildlife accidents, and the issue is therefore very complex. Wildlife accidents have increased in Sweden in recent years. Generally speaking, the main reasons for this are an increase in traffic on an increasing number of roads and railways. Locally and regionally large variations may occur. Accidents vary, for example, by volume of traffic, speed, population size, fragmentation and distribution of important resources for animals in the landscape and by the design of buildings. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for taking measures in the infrastructure to reduce wildlife accidents, and they work with a number of different measures. Wildlife fences have been set up in many places, but in some cases they need to be supplemented by safe passages where the game can pass freely under or across the road. Maintenance and repair of existing fences and gates is also important. Trafikverket also participates in a number of research and development projects aimed at improving working methods as well as developing new methods and tools that can be used in physical infrastructure planning. The aim is to be better at taking wild game into account when planning and maintaining infrastructure. There is also a well-established cooperation to work with issues related to wildlife accidents in the National Viltolycksrådet. It is a cooperation body in which several authorities and NGOs can cooperate on an urgent task. All in all, I can see that there are a number of initiatives and collaborations going on to reduce the number of wildlife accidents. I will continue to follow the issue in my dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me begin by saying that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of wildlife accidents in recent years. That is part of the background to my raising this question. An average of four people die each year. About 200 people are seriously injured, and many have been harmed for life after the serious injuries. There is also likely to be some darkness in the case of fatal accidents. There are some air traffic accidents where this cannot be established. It is not referred to as a wild accident if you drive off the road, although it was a wild game that caused it to happen and even if it is written in the police report. We also have examples of a minibus. Three people died driving into a truck braking in for a reindeer. It can be observed that the serious accidents are fairly unevenly distributed across the country. You can see at Norrlandslänen – there I also count Dalarna and Gävleborg. A large part of the seriously injured are in those counties. It is clear that there is a rather uneven distribution of this. In Dalarna they have as many seriously injured as they have in Stockholm. Then it can certainly be Stockholmers who visit Dalarna who have these accidents. But accidents are simply unevenly distributed geographically. We have about 3,000 miles [500 km] of wildlife fences — out of the 21,000 miles that the state is responsible for. This causes death. It causes a great deal of suffering and a great cost to society. It is commonly said that the social cost of wildlife accidents is about 3 billion a year. I am not going to blame the sharp increase on this government, even if it turns out by some inscrutable chance that accidents are increasing greatly when we change governments. I will not even try to say that it is this government's fault – this is, of course, due to other things. But it is within the minister's and the government's ability to be involved and to reverse the development by daring to invest money on the Swedish road network. I could possibly wish that the government would invest as much as the Moderates on the road network, but I am not going to take that debate today but instead focus on what is close to being possible for the Minister to do. I'm in the North Police Region Transparency Council. The po lis there is a little frustrated. In the National Viltolycksrådet, to which the Minister refers, there is, as I understand it, good cooperation between all the different actors – the police, the Finnish Transport Agency, the county administrative boards, hunter associations and so on. But in the regional wildlife councils it looks a little different. In Västerbotten, for example, the Swedish Transport Administration has been missing for many years. There is no representative on the ground, even though it is the police who know which sections of the road are particularly affected by accidents. There is such an example in my home county Västerbotten. This applies to the E45 between Storuman and Sandsjö. That stretch is very accident-stricken. There are many wildlife accidents involving moose, which will eventually result in a fatal accident if this is not overcome. I'm afraid that's how it works. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister whether he would be willing to take this on board: to ensure that the Transport Agency participates in the regional wildlife accident councils with the means available to him. Because that's where you can do a workshop. That's where the police can tell you which traffic sections you need to work on. In fact, some of these statistics can also be changed, with fewer being affected.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Edward Riedl, for your commitment! I share it. I think it is incredibly important that we put road safety first in the room and that we work with all the means at our disposal. Wildlife accidents are difficult because they happen at random. They're hard to predict. Even if you try to find paths where this is more frequent now than before, research says that at least 70 percent of wildlife accidents are randomly located. Everyone realizes the challenge of finding good and safe traffic environments, even though we now have 800 km of road with wild fences. The increase in wildlife accidents is also a clear signal that it is an increase in traffic work. There's more transportation on our roads. We're a bigger population. There is high pressure in the Swedish economy. These are some of the explanations. Thankfully, we have a strong development in the automotive industry with regard to increasingly safer vehicles, which, of course, can in itself protect people from injury. However, there is no doubt that we need to have a high level of ambition in terms of the continued safety of roads, not least with regard to wildlife accidents. It is then important to have a strong commitment from the Swedish Transport Administration. It's absolutely crucial. The national plan proposed by the Finnish Transport Administration allocates more than SEK 3.3 billion to landscape measures, including these measures. Now the government is not done with the work, but in the near future we will present the national plan and also report on how the allocation of resources will be. I see this as an important task for the Finnish Transport Administration. I would also like to answer the question I received from Edward Riedl about the commitment of the Finnish Transport Administration. I think it is basically an authority that should be deeply involved in social life, and I think that the work on the national plan has taken several steps forward in involving several parts of society. For example, one looks at the construction of housing in the development of a national plan. It is about having a closer dialogue with municipalities and regions, so that infrastructure planning is better linked to other investments made in society. In the same way, it is important that the Finnish Transport Administration is deeply involved both with civil society actors in terms of road safety and game management and, of course, with the police and other authorities. Should there be a need for clearer regulations to ensure that Trafikverket has a strong commitment to this, it is no concern to look at such conditions, because I think it is obvious that one should have a strong commitment. There is an increase in road accidents caused by wild game accidents and this leads to a number of road deaths and injuries. Although we in Sweden are world leaders in terms of road safety and although we have a positive development with fewer dead and injured people in traffic than before, we cannot settle down, but we must get started and make even more efforts. I have explained earlier in this House how we are moving forward with demands on winter tyres on heavy vehicles and on all wheels in the case of buses. With the ban on mobile phones, we will hopefully have a much safer traffic where people are focused on keeping their hands on the steering wheel instead of looking at other things. Of course, I also believe that alcoboms, which we are now introducing, will mean that there will be fewer drug-affected traffic. These are important efforts. Wildlife accidents must be better prevented, and these include wildlife fences, research efforts and over- and out-of-dates, as well as a number of other measures. It will, of course, be an important part of the national plan and, as I said, I have no worries about ensuring that the Finnish Transport Administration is involved in this. I know that you are national, and that is what you are in many places throughout the country.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-339	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I think it is good that all parties in Sweden have high ambitions in terms of road safety. It is a strength, and it is also a strength over time that it looks that way. I would like this debate to take place in general agreement and that the Minister simply took on board my request and said that this is what we are doing. But the Minister is saying a lot of things, Mr President, and at the risk of weakening the good atmosphere in the speaker's chair, I would like to respond to them. The minister says they're going to introduce alcoboms. It's great to have alcoboms for heavy traffic, and then I just want to remind anyone who listens that we had them in five ports when the current government took over. Now we have it in zero ports, because the first thing the government did when it took over the government power was to dismantle these alcoboms and ship them to Finland. After a majority of Parliament has repeatedly told the government that you must put alco-boms in ports, I naturally think it is a good thing that the government now thinks we should do this. It is good that the government is listening to this, but I still wanted to remove some of the nice atmosphere and correct the minister in these areas. Then the Minister wants to talk about high pressure in the economy. We have a global boom – absolutely. But I don't think that's such a big part of the explanation for the increase in wildlife accidents. The explanations from those who know these questions range from snowy winters to high game pressure, which is no wonder, for we have, for example, a sharp increase in wild boar. This is what those working on the issues refer to, and I rather believe in that explanation. Mr President, I would like to When I listened to the Minister, I had to say that I agreed very much, for example with regard to the high ambitions. I wish the government would like to invest as much as the Moderates just on the road network, because then it would of course be enough for more wildlife fences. I do not want to reduce the resources we have after all, because they are significant. We also have a broad consensus on how we want to work on these issues. But when I listened to the Minister– it may be that I simply did not manage to hear it, and then I apologise– I thought he said he was going to take hold of this and talk to the Finnish Transport Administration to make sure that you have a high degree of participation in the regional wildlife safety councils, because that's where you can do a workshop. It is quite right that, for a large part of the wildlife accidents, it is not foreseeable where they will take place. Despite this, only five sections of the road have been taken from the police in Västerbotten with a very large over-representation of accidents. I took an example of a stretch of very many moose accidents. They say that they would like to have a dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration, because something needs to be done there, and they think that soon they have gathered for the first fatal accident on this road section. This is something that the Minister can influence, and I would like the Minister to say clearly from the speaker's seat that he intends to tackle this and in the way he can, by means of a directive to the Finnish Transport Administration, ensure that there is an increased presence in the regional wildlife councils.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-348	Mr President, I would like to In the case of wildlife accidents, 70% are randomly located. Only 30% of cloven-hoofed animal accidents can be linked to accident clusters of a certain duration and far fewer, about 10%, to clusters of duration that span decades. Simplified means that it is a fairly large degree of randomness, which makes it difficult. I do not think there are any political dividing lines here, but everyone can say so. Then there are paths, and research has come a long way, where you can find a good passage with over or underpass to reduce the risk on particularly vulnerable routes. But it's not always easy. Although large investments are made, it may take several years before there is even close to a wildlife accident on that route. That's one part. When it comes to Trafikverket's involvement, it is of course important to be deeply involved in promoting road safety work. It was news to me that there was a poor participation in the regional game conservation board, because it was not shown in the interpellation. If that were the case, I would not be in favour of it, because I think it is important to be involved. Of course, I will check whether there is a lower level of ambition. You shouldn't have that. The Finnish Transport Agency should be involved in the road safety work, and my picture is that it actually is, whether it be game conservation work or other road safety work. If there's any flaws, I won't be late to point that out. That is my answer to the interpellier on that question. As far as the causes are concerned, it is of course true that the reason why the number of accidents is increasing is snow-rich winters – but it is not just that. Of course, traffic work is also increasing, as there are more of us in Sweden. It is a larger population, and it is an increased pressure in the economy. I chose not to make any big political points about it, but I could mention that we now perhaps have the highest employment we have ever had in Sweden. We have a strong economy and 80 billion in surplus, unlike the mass unemployment and the large budget deficit that we had under the previous government. However, this has little to do with wildlife accidents. I believe that both Edward Riedl and I, and indeed the vast majority in this House, are involved in this matter. What can we do to ensure that local/regional cooperation works better? What resources do we have at our disposal for efforts to curb the development of increased wildlife accidents? There, however, this government puts 100 billion more into national planes than the previous government did. In total, there will be about 700 billion that we can spend on both roads and railways in national planes, because it is important to note that wildlife accidents occur both on roads and railways. Not least in this winter, we have seen it on the railways to a greater extent, which as a consequence affects the eagle population. I have learned this when I read on the basis of the interpellation debate. You always learn something new. I can therefore assure Edward Riedl that this is a matter of high priority to me. I assume the Swedish Transport Administration has a high level of commitment to this issue. I see that it is important that we move on and perhaps have more than 800 miles of wildlife fence. I also know how local and regional actors have been able to gather together and identify certain routes and thus successfully promote road safety. This is the kind of work I appreciate, and I think it is important that we send out signals from both the Riksdag and the Government, as well as from works and agencies, that such work should continue.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-356	Mr President, I would like to The Minister said that you always learn something new, and that is of course mutual. I learned that an eagle car accident has doubled. It sounds like a very unusual kind of accident, but it does exist. A large proportion of these accidents are difficult to predict, as the Minister says, and I have in no way tried to argue otherwise. What I am saying, however, is that a relatively large proportion of them are, after all, related to certain road routes, and the police have along with those who are searching and so on quite good track of where these extra-dangerous areas are. That is where it is possible to do something if you work in the regional councils. I tried to write down what the Minister said, Mr President. Bad participation he did not think it was, but he would not look positively at it if it were so. He was supposed to hear what it was like, but his picture was that it wasn't like that. If there are shortcomings, he would point that out. That is also my call to the Minister. That's good. I am a bad politician when it comes to interpreting words; I like yes or no, quite clearly. However, I take it, Mr President, that the Minister intends to deal with this. In Västerbotten's regional wildlife accident council, it is several years since they had any participation from the Swedish Transport Administration, and it would be good if they were there. I will not go into the discussion about how difficult it must have been for this government to inherit Europe's most well-managed economy. We can save it for another debate. But it must have been very painful for the government.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-361	Mr President, I would like to To inherit a budget deficit of SEK 60 billion and high unemployment we have done in the past. In fact, every time there has been a bourgeois government, we have inherited both large budget deficits and high unemployment, but as before, we have also reversed developments. Now there is a high level of employment and a good economy. It seems to be a classic task. This was the case when I entered the Parliament in 1994, and this has been the case since then. The reason why I sometimes do not say yes or no is because I want to avoid going to the Constitutional Committee on issues of detailed government control. Edward Riedl knows that as Minister of State, I cannot comment exactly on which official at the Finnish Transport Administration will attend which meetings. However, I assume that Edward Riedl, as a local Member, will point this out to the representatives. Of course, Edward Riedl has probably already acted locally and regionally and wrote letters to the Swedish Transport Administration requesting their participation. I will do what I can to point out the importance of the Finnish Transport Agency getting involved in road safety work. You're supposed to do that in all parts of the country. My picture so far is that they do it in a good way. At home in the county it has worked well, and at national level I have seen a strong commitment from the Swedish Transport Administration during my visits to various activities. Of course, if there are shortcomings, they should be addressed. I choose not to hold a long political discussion on issues of wildlife accidents because I believe that those following the debate realise that it can hardly be an issue that distinguishes whether you are moderate or a social democrat. Rather, this is an issue where those of us who are involved in traffic policy, who want us to travel safely on our roads, think that resources should be used as smartly as possible. One way to make the work smart is to ensure that there are clear priorities. I will see to that when it comes to road safety. That is why it has been important to make efforts, whether we are talking about mobile interventions for alcoboms, winter tires on our heavy-duty vehicles or, for that matter, banning mobile phones in the hand while driving. This will lead to fewer deaths and injuries in traffic, and I am pleased with that.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-366	Mr President, I would like to Nina Lundström has asked me a number of questions about Epec and OPS solutions for infrastructure projects. The Government decided in 2016 that a committee will investigate whether there are conditions for involving private capital in the financing of state infrastructure. In February 2017, the Committee submitted its interim report Financing private capital infrastructure to the Government. The report summarises, among other things, the experience and lessons learned in Epec regarding OPS solutions, which the government has now taken note of. The study recommends a pilot programme for OPS projects that should be within the framework of the national cross-road plan. On 31 August 2017, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted its proposal for a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the period 2018 – 2029 to the Government. What the final plan will look like, the government will decide on in spring 2018, and I cannot therefore comment on the content of the plan. The Government has high ambitions to ensure the quality of existing transport infrastructure and to develop the transport system as a whole. At the same time, the State's budgetary policy objectives aimed at sound and sustainable public finances should be safeguarded in the short and long term. Let me therefore make it clear that OPS does not create any extra space in public finances. OPS investments will be paid for by the State and will in most cases be counted as public, regardless of who finances them in the short term. The government defends long-term sustainable finances and therefore primarily applies the general rule of the Budget Act that infrastructure should be financed with grants. Proponents argue that there are potential efficiency gains to be realised using OPS models. The study, for its part, believes that research cannot determine whether OPS solutions produce a better or worse outcome than other forms of funding. At the same time, there are examples that taking great risks in terms of competition and contracts can be costly. Regardless of the form of funding used for an infrastructure project, good governance and cost control, proper execution and thorough follow-up are important. These are questions that I follow and prioritise.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-373	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. But often when you ask questions, you think there is more to tell. This applies, in particular, to Questions Nos 1 and 3 of my interpellation, to which I shall return. My interpellation is about alternative models for building infrastructure in a broader sense. Needs are great in Sweden. Sweden is a sparsely populated country with 23 inhabitants per square kilometre. This also means that in a number of ways we have to create the conditions for achieving everything that is needed. As the Government mentioned, an infrastructure plan will be adopted in the spring. However, it has a framework and the government's proposal was 622.5 billion and 54 billion in the form of fees. Liberals had 1 billion more in the base plate, i.e. 623.5 billion, and even more in getting increased user fees, i.e. 80 billion. Regardless of this mathematics, the question is how big the needs are in Sweden. I can't wait to think about it. Are they twice as big or three times as big? The only thing we know with certainty – at least what I know – is that the needs are infinitely greater than the 622.5 billion. It would be interesting to hear from the Government how much is really missing. It also creates a picture of the challenges we face. Of course, the different parties have different priorities. The high-speed lanes are one such example. But this is a matter of prioritising. To this shall be added the way in which resources are to be developed to build more infrastructure. The liberals have nevertheless been open to the possibility of using OPS. There are many international examples; the UK has 700 different projects, and Norway has three and is in its fourth. There is much experience and much to learn. That is why I was so surprised to note that Sweden is not part of, for example, the organisation, Epec, which operates at European level. There is also the European Commission. The number of members is 41. Knowledge and learning from others is important. The agency Epec aims to gather knowledge about different types of public-private collaboration. It also assists in developing good decision-making documents. I think that Sweden should have that competence regardless of whether we are in a new OPS project or not. The OPS also consists of many different models. One is concession-based and the other is accessibility-based, and sometimes you mix up what OPS is really about. OPS can get an undeserved bad reputation even though it is the agreement itself that is a concern. Not participating in collaboration in an organization that aims to increase knowledge and opportunities to take part in other people's experiences surprises me. The Government does not answer that question. That is why I repeat, Mr President, my first question: does the Government think that Sweden should be active and participate in cooperation within Epec in order for us to learn more about the conditions and possibilities of OPS?
i-PyPKaN8nyvy4voe84gHBf2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina Lundström, for the interpellation! The issue of OPS has varied over the years in Sweden. Traditionally, Sweden is a country that has used OPS to a small extent. We are using funding, and we want to get our finances in order and know what resources are allocated to different types of projects, be it infrastructure or otherwise. There are some exceptions where OPS solutions have been used, sometimes with varying results. I know that the Swedish National Audit Office made a proper evaluation of, for example, Arlandabanan. It was then concluded that there is no indication that the Arlanda runway through OPS cost more than if any other implementation had been selected, but also that there were lower costs. There therefore appears to be no significant differences in implementation. It also notes the Dillénian investigation – it is unambiguously said that it will not provide any additional, new resources. However, there may be advantages in testing models with OPS to see if it can produce productivity gains or efficiency gains. I will honestly say that in the near future with the debate that is taking place on NKS, on the New Karolinska Hospital, OPS has undeniably had a small thorn. I believe that most of the people who have followed the debate on NKS realise that this is perhaps not the best example of jointly funded public-private activities, since it has at least been what appears to be a lack of cost control and unclear circumstances as to who orders and who carries out tasks. In this sense, I think you should be careful with the form of the contract if you try different types of OPS solutions. I have been asked a number of questions since I took office as Minister for Infrastructure to answer that I am prepared to turn over all the stones to see if we can increase resources. This means that we look at both loan financing and green bonds but also at OPS solutions. But I have said in the same breath that there are no free lunches, that is to say, what is consistent with all these forms of financing is that everything must be accommodated within the state financial framework we have. That this creates extra space is not really true. It does not – especially not, to start from Nina Lundström's starting point, in a sparsely populated country. The market conditions for OPS solutions in much of our country are almost non-existent. On the contrary, we have learned that infrastructure investments cost. It is a joint investment that we taxpayers have to pay for. The operation may also often be subsidised in order to obtain bearing capacity. The conditions to make other solutions with expensive bridge charges have for a long time kept away in Sweden, with some exceptions. That is what makes me think it is important that we try different forms and value them, but also realise the obvious: this will not provide any free resources, but it is mainly in implementation that the possibilities exist. In terms of participation, there is a dialogue between Epec and the Swedish authorities responsible, and I assume that the results that exist will be taken into account. After all, it is an international European debate that is taking place, and in so far as it needs to be clarified there, I do not think that this would be a radical position. The most important thing is that we take part in the European debate. In Sweden in the near future, it is more about looking at what economic space we have to finance infrastructure. In this respect, the wishes go far beyond the resources available, which means that we have to look quite carefully at priorities, but also at other funding opportunities. That's what I've been telling you all along.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-388	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Government's view that Sweden should take advantage of the knowledge that exists in Europe and within Epec. I think it is important to always invest in improving, to gain more knowledge and also to learn from other people's experiences. Given the major challenges we face, I also think it is important to consider what could be built for infrastructure in Sweden, also with other funding. No, there are no free lunches. However, I note that the study that came up last year, SOU 2016:3, notes the following on OPS: It provides strong financial incentives for innovation, efficiency and time-keeping. This discussion is often about borrowing and much more. But it is also about how to allocate risk. How do we ensure that the projects that are being built are completed on time and of a certain quality and that those that are active and carry out the projects deliver their part? There I would say that there is a big difference – as public investigations have shown – to what the government usually calls functional procurement and OPS, which actually places a responsibility on those involved in the project to deliver on time and with quality. Of course, the risk distribution also comes in. But no, there are no free lunches. It should always be paid in the end. I think it is interesting to note that Norway is now launching another 5 billion project. Clearly, it has come to the conclusion that this form cannot be excluded because it can have good effects. I think we should see what is going on in our neighbours and learn from them. The Government addresses the examples of Arlandabanan and NKS. Yes, Sweden has two examples that we have to learn from. I noticed that the Swedish National Audit Office might think that Arlandabanan itself was a successful example, so it depends on how you read the material. In this context, I think it is important to point out that these are examples of two completely different models – the Arlanda runway on the concession model and the hospital on the second model, which is accessibility-based. So there is quite a difference. I also think it is important to sometimes discuss the models based on their own conditions and also to evaluate the model itself. What you then agree on – prices, the length of the contract or user charges – is part of the model you have chosen and what you have agreed on. This is where I mean that Sweden could learn from Epec how to get good at making demands, getting good agreements, setting high conditions and monitoring that it is delivered. I think we have a lot to learn there. I would like to move on to infrastructure planning, which will come in the spring. I note that the Government does not want to answer my third question, which is whether the Government is prepared to give responsible works the opportunity to identify any objects where alternative funding could be looked at. I can't see how this is connected to government planning. This is actually more of a matter of principle. Do you want to open the door to look at the question at all, or do you want to close the door? In my personal opinion, it would be a shame to exclude this possibility. If you find suitable, clearly defined projects where Sweden makes sure to create good competence, I think things would come in a different light. I hope, Mr President, that the Government will respond to this. Is it possible to identify any projects or not?
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-397	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Nina Lundström with regard to what I said at the outset, that is to say that I will not comment on the national plan until we have taken a decision on it. Then we will account for all the objects that exist. This is about 100 billion more than the previous government managed to spend on infrastructure, so it is of course a big investment. On the other hand, after travelling all over the country and listening to every request, I know that they far exceed the resources available. It goes without saying – everyone when hopes that infrastructure will be the solution when it comes to the rescue of the region, the development of the region or the strengthening of the competitiveness of the industry. That is also the case very often. At the same time, this sometimes leads to a rather daring approach to funding proposals. We have heard in the debate that some people think that borrowing can finance a lot of infrastructure without properly explaining how it can be paid. Here we in Sweden have been careful in comparison with the surrounding countries in Europe. We have a pretty camera posture and say that it should mainly be funding. Sometimes we take out loans; For example, the bypass Stockholm is loan-financed. There, however, revenue in the form of fees covers the capital costs that exist, and this is an example of an alternative funding path. However, in many infrastructure projects, not least in sparsely populated areas, it is difficult to see that you can get revenues that cover capital costs to more than perhaps 10, 20 or 30 percent. This means that, according to Eurostat's rules, it is a state financial risk, and then it is a public risk-taking exercise. I know that Nina Lundström is aware of this, but for those who follow the interpellation debate, it may be good to know that we have been given a lesson in Europe when countries like Spain for a period of time allowed OPS projects and some fully publicly funded projects to run away. It was about the construction of both airports and railway stations, which then did not pay off. Some of them are still empty, and it diluted the Spanish national debt. In the end, it was the Spanish taxpayer who was responsible for this. This is why Eurostat tightened up its regulatory framework, which is different from what existed during the time when the Öresund Bridge was built. This is also why we in Sweden, across the block, have had a rather cameral and hard posture. We are happy to look at other financial solutions, but that should happen within the fiscal framework and regulatory framework we have. We have made some exceptions and some attempts, and when we have evaluated them there have been some mixed experiences. Dillén's investigation, which we set up under this government, also shows that there are no fiscal reasons to initiate OPS solutions. If you are going to do this in, for example, smaller project form for some very limited objects, it should mainly be because it could lead to efficiency gains when it comes to procurement or to other ways that you can get an implementation that is more effective than with the usual model we have in Sweden. That is about how I have chosen to approach this since I took office as Minister for Infrastructure. I'm ready to lift all the stones. We're looking at different variants. But everyone must be fully aware that this does not give any free lunches. Given the development we have had, not least with NKS, I believe that the interest in larger OPS solutions in the near future is b limited. Many have hesitated to engage in similar projects where both cost and contractual control are difficult and lead to difficult management problems.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-406	Madam President, I would like No, you should not compare with the NKS for the reason that I already started on: It is a different type of OPS model. Nor have I pointed out that this is precisely the type of project we are going to enter into. What I am saying here is that we have great needs and desires in society. It's a matter of really turning every stone around. If we were to find some specific projects suitable for OPS, I think that this would also free up space for other projects in the plan. There is an opportunity to have room for a little more, and that is what is important. Be careful, and be careful to have good knowledge if you go into OPS projects. Therefore, I still think it would be commendable and important if Sweden were to participate in the work that is being done at European level. I am not quite sure that the Government has promised this, but I think it is important to learn from the knowledge and the accumulated experience. These are hundreds of different types of projects, of which there is good experience. And there are examples to learn from, like Spain. This is an opportunity, and the question is whether Sweden can afford to completely close the door to OPS. Can Sweden's growth afford that we do not try every possible way to achieve a better infrastructure? If so, how should we ensure that we have the space to care for what is already in place in the various regions when, at the same time, we also need to build new ones? We are prepared to test the possibility, but it requires higher knowledge and better opportunities to follow the projects that already exist in the world and that we learn from good examples and look at concrete objects. We think it would be commendable if the responsible work were given that task. I take it that the Government does not intend to give the mandate, but the Government has the opportunity to answer that question once again.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-411	Madam President, I would like When it comes to Epec, it is an international work that is carried out, and Sweden can take part of that information. Whether it's up to you to join Epec or not is actually a more academic question. What is important is that we take part in international research and in this way get the experience that exists. I described some of them earlier. In Sweden we have a fantastic knowledge overview in the D illénska investigation and the solid material available, which points to how OPS solutions have been used and what advantages and disadvantages there are. Above all, it has been concluded that it does not provide new resources. Here, however, I would like to be gentle, because although Nina Lundström says in the debate that there will be no free lunches, I notice that she still seems to think that it will free up some kind of space. This is not the case, but we have the space we have. Even if we choose a different form of financing, if you do not receive income that far covers capital costs, it is a matter of state financial space. Then we must state how this is to be financed. It should be taken from childcare, care for the elderly or other urgent initiatives. Although I am the Minister for Infrastructure and I am passionate and eager to do much more with regard to infrastructure projects, I naturally think it is even more important that we stay within the framework we have. Moreover, I think it might be more important to look at something I recently discussed in this House with a moderate Member of Parliament, namely the socio-economic consequences of not investing in infrastructure. I believe that the reason why we are having this discussion in Sweden today is the absence of infrastructure investment for ten years, when priority was given to tax cuts over important investments in infrastructure. It is suffering from the rail system and Sweden's roads today.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-416	Madam President, I would like Beatrice Ask has asked me two questions about the Swedish Transport Administration's plans for E45 through Sveg. On 31 August 2017, the Finnish Transport Administration submitted its proposal for a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the period 2018 – 2029 to the Government. As Beatrice Ask writes, the object E45 between Rengsjön and Älvros is included in the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national plan. The plan has now been widely referred and prepared in the usual way within the Government Office. With regard to the draft plan, I have invited dialogue on three occasions. I have had a consultation meeting with regional representatives, another meeting with a particular focus on business transport and a forward date with civil society. I have also taken note of written referrals, including comments made by Härjedalen Municipality and Svegs Företags- och Utvecklingsförening. The final national plan will be adopted by the Government in spring 2018. I am therefore unable today to comment on individual objects.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-419	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer, where there are, of course, no surprises. The question is being prepared, and the government will make decisions during the spring. That's usually the way it is. My interpellation concerns a small part of Trafikverket's comprehensive proposal for a comprehensive plan for 2018 – 2029. But for the people of Sveg and Härjedalen, the question of what options you choose when it comes to a piece of the E45 is of great importance. This is an issue that has been discussed and ventilated forward and backward since the 1990s. What is at issue from their perspective is whether it is possible to cut traffic from the central town of Sveg and at the same time reduce the conditions for the tourism industry in Härjedalen for a few minutes of time gain for those going further north. Should you cut off the central town and the road up towards the tourist resorts in Härjedalen for a few minutes of time gain? My answer is, no, it's not reasonable. There is a reason why the centre is where it is, and there is a reason why the road goes as it goes. Härjedalen is a struggling landscape and one of our least populated landscapes. The hospitality industry is essential for service and development. In 2015 – that's the figures I have – it was about 2,000 annual workers and a turnover of over 1.6 billion. There are large numbers when we talk about a landscape with about 10,000 inhabitants. In my opinion, the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal does not accord well with the government's overall objective of improving the conditions for business and jobs throughout the country. Both the municipality and the entrepreneurs locally agree that the estimated halving of traffic on this route will have serious economic consequences. Trafikverket does not include this in its assessments of different alternatives, which I find very strange in itself. Even stranger is it when you look at their economic assessments of what different options cost. There is a total cost of SEK 187 million for a new route between Rengsjön and Älvros when cutting off the central area. But then you have forgotten that you have to manage the existing road no matter what you do, in any case if you do not close the Inlandsbanan and strangle the communications between, for example, Byvallen and Sveg. It will, of course, require money, because the road is bad, which E45 is all the way from Orsa. So there is much to do. However, my assessment – I am not an expert on this – is that it is probably much cheaper to make improvements to the existing path, because these have to be done anyway. That is also what is felt to be necessary locally. Madam President, I would like I hope that the government is wise enough not to make decisions on the basis of the stick-up, if reality does not match the map, then the map still applies. It is unreasonable to give an authority the opportunity to cut off communities, business and survival opportunities for a whole area by means of ruler. For those who have the road up, whether they are tourists, returnees or skiers, it is also a joy that there is somewhere where you can get service after 11 km through the forest from Orsa. For many, Sveg is a natural place to stop, and this too is something that should be included in making decisions on this issue. In principle, the new route would only provide more forest and rural areas, and that is not the way to make the whole country live. My question to Tomas Eneroth is: Is the government prepared to look at the issue of the E45's attraction to Sveg from a holistic perspective?
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-426	Madam President, I would like I thank Beatrice Ask for her commitment. I myself have passed Sveg on a few occasions and know the distance – well know would be presumptuous to say. I also recognise the difficult balance that this represents. The referral from Region Jämtland Härjedalen is clear. Industry in the region has also been clear about the priorities. There will be a difficult balance when there are different balance points and different conflicts of interest within a region. During the tour I did during the work on a national plan, I met with regional representatives and tried to listen as far as possible to different views within the regions, but also, of course, to persuade regions to agree on common priorities. As we could already hear in the previous and past interpellation debate: although it is good that 100 billion more is spent on infrastructure than with the previous government, it is nevertheless the case that the unbelievably many wishes will of course force us to set tough priorities. Then it has been important to listen to the regional views. This is a proposal that was also included in the national plan adopted by the previous government, which included Beatrice Ask. The route was thus included in the national plan for 2014 – 2025. In that sense, it is not a new question. I am now unable to tell you what direction the government will make, but I can assure Beatrice Ask that I have been careful to listen to the comments. If I understand correctly, all the players think that it is extremely important to do something, that is to say that it is urgent that it now finally becomes an investment that increases road safety and accessibility on a route that is quite heavily burdened and that is important for the region, the forest industry and, for that matter, the tourism industry. For me, it has been important to listen to the fact that the priority is that the road takes place. Then there will be different views on the routes. I note that there are regional interests that stand against local interests. Of course, I have the task of trying to balance the various interests when we then make decisions.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-430	Madam President, I would like The region does not care about Härjedalen and has never done so. The big city has always decided that everything should be good for Östersund. We are talking about a landscape that is small and that does not weigh very heavily. But this is about adding SEK 187 million – and I think they have counted low – to cut off the living possibilities of an important country. In addition, it is possible to get all the way to Norway also there. The region wants everyone to go to Åre, but then there will be a lot of people there. I think something should be done about this. If you go from Orsa to Sveg you will find that the E45 is in very bad condition in many places. On the part that touches Sveg and that you want to cut away, things actually have to be done whether you cut it out or not. Why do you do your utmost with the money so as not to get close to the people who live there and the service that exists in rural areas, when you still have to try to do something? I can't believe it. It's dangerous in certain situations. I think we will need a viaduct across the Inland Line, because it is one of the few railway lines we have inside the country. From the point of view of civilian preparedness, I can say that it has greater value than many understand. When you travel this route, there is also a lot of forest and a long way between nutritional places and people. If you go from Orsa, there aren't many souls along the way. And if you cut this part off, it'll actually get even worse. I do not understand how it would benefit society. I think we have had a disease in our authorities: to try as much as possible to get past natural places and places where traffic is sometimes beneficial. We think as Stockholmers that traffic is only a problem and that there are queues. But the queues in Sveg are not many, I can say. It is not that it is difficult when people come up there, but you welcome when someone comes by. We cannot have this Stockholm perspective, that one should always take the road far beyond the buildings and far beyond the people, but we must be practical and see it from the local perspective. Those who live there should also be able to move around the area. That is why, of course, the necessary measures must be taken on this route and are not part of the planning of the Finnish Transport Administration. It is true that the issue has been on the table for many years. That's what I said earlier. It has been discussed since the 1990s. It is that I did not act on the matter during the reign. I had some other questions to do. But for me it has always been crystal clear that it is important with the nerve that the road is through Sveg in order for the places in Härjedalen to survive at all. I am incredibly happy that we have managed to develop not only Tänndalen, Ramundberget and Vemdalen but that today we also have a large complex in Lofsdalen with a very good tourist industry and tourism industry. In this perspective, it becomes completely incomprehensible why you should put the opportunities at a disadvantage when there is a plant power. You should put the money where it's most useful. There is no reason to make this change. There is reason to listen to the local perspectives of such an issue. It's a small question. Those who sit in Östersund don't care what the situation looks like down there but see a profit of a few minutes for those who will ski in Åre or go further up. I think that is a completely wrong priority.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-436	Madam President, I would like I will honestly say that I am a little concerned when I hear Beatrice Ask's argumentation. She's talking about Stockholm phasers. Beatrice Ask has possibly lived in Stockholm longer than I have happened to. I live in Växjö and have lived in Kosta with 800 inhabitants. I grew up in Småland and am well aware of the importance of the communication routes. Both Beatrice Ask and I know that it is sometimes important to find clear and good regional lines that strengthen the vitality of the entire region. I do not wish to endorse the fact that Härjedalen is completely ignored in Östersund. In fact, I believe that regional politicians, regardless of their party colours, protect the strength of their region. I also believe that the business representatives who advocate this or that alternative will do so on the basis of their very best conditions. That must be the starting point when we take note of the views of regional representatives. Here is a difficult conflict of objectives where my starting point is to ensure, which I think is important, that there are resources available to make improvements on the road network in Jämtland and Härjedalen. As Beatrice Ask mentioned, the road is in bad shape, and improvements are needed. There are a few different rulings in the consultation bodies regarding the choices that exist. I cannot tell you here, as I have said before, what the government is going to land in. But I'm not going to sign up to an idea that you don't care about each other in parts of Jämtland and Härjedalen. On the contrary, I believe that everyone realises that the whole region needs to be developed and supported. That will be my starting point when I look at the conditions for the national plan. This was already part of the national plan adopted by the previous government, which included Beatrice Ask as a minister. She supported the national plan in the government decision taken at the time. This means that I am convinced that Beatrice Ask is also aware of the serious conflict of objectives that is being brought to bear at this stage. I've been willing to listen, and I've taken in referral points. We will put our foot down when we decide on the national plan. The important thing is for everyone to feel that they have been heard. What direction we then make we will present at a later date.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-441	Madam President, I would like I'm not accusing Tomas Eneroth of having a big city perspective. That would be strange to me. But authorities often see it from an overall perspective and forget the local conditions. One should be honest and say that regions have their advantages, but regions are rarely uniform. There are many conflicts of interests. A smaller part of a region usually has fewer votes and fewer opportunities to have its views met. It's a good thing if you have the government to come with you. I do not feel shaken by the observation that it has existed before in Trafikverket's plans. It is for the simple reason that both the municipality of Härjedalen and the companies have been active in the work that is now going on to produce current arguments for and against different alternatives. I admit that I did not engage in this matter before. But even if I had thought it was good before, which I probably didn't, I don't have to think so today. Work has really been done, not least from the municipality and companies, to analyse the whole thing. The last thing that has come into the discussion is the problems you see for reindeer grazing. It is a new aspect that has not been included before. The reindeer bite has crawled further down, at least it's my picture. I may generalize roughly when I take this debate. It is difficult to be nuanced in a few minutes. It is essential to listen to the small ones in society, and Sveg is a small community and Härjedalen a small landscape and depends on a good solution. It's my hope that the government will listen to that ear. This would mean a great deal in the future, rather than creating further difficulties for a hard - hit area.
i-1ca25a3508dd1815-446	Madam President, I would like It is true that several comments have been received not only from the consultation bodies I mentioned earlier, but also from Tåssåsen's Sami village, which has received letters and is also against a new route. The involvement of local and regional civil society is important. That is why it has also been important for me to take note of all the points of view. It's a difficult goal conflict. I think everyone realizes that. It is just as well to admit it in a political environment that is all too often black and white and simplified. It's not. It's hard to weigh up. I respect those regional politicians who see their clear priorities to ensure fast and good transport, not least for the business community in Jämtland and Härjedalen. I can also see the local interest in Sveg among entrepreneurs who want to develop the tourism industry. This conflict is not unique in the area of traffic. We have it in many parts of the country. That is why it has been important for me to listen to all the comments. We will decide in a few weeks' time, and then we will be able to give a reply on this issue.
