ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u1	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Future, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order in which I am considering it, I will give you answers of up to two minutes. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 4 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 4 p.m., we will move on to the next item on the agenda, that is, the 8th item.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u2	Mr President! In September 2015, the UN adopted the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030. For the first time in history, we have seen the path of sustainable development for all the countries of the world up to 2030. Finland's sustainable development programme is now under discussion. We now have the opportunity to show that we look to the future in a sustainable building and inclusive way in 2017. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u5	I now turn to Mr Mykkänen's speech, five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u6	Mr President! Perhaps the role of Finland in creating the Agenda 2030 UN objectives and the commitment of the Finnish Government and Finnish ownership in this, as well, tells us that this is, in fact, the very first implementation documents of the OECD countries that Mr Tiilikainen has just presented, namely that we have been the first to implement those joint promises now through this document, and that is certainly not a coincidence in itself. I would like to highlight a number of priorities, in particular those on the development policy side, in which we are moving forward precisely with these objectives of Agenda 2030. This document itself, of course, focuses first and foremost on Finland's transformation into the 2030 Agenda, but as part of it, of course, I am now, in line with my role, emphasising this development policy perspective, global responsibility. Firstly, as Minister Tiilikainen mentioned, the two specific priorities that the government has chosen here are 'Lieutical and resource-wise Finland' and, secondly, 'An equal, equal and knowledgeable Finland', both of which are also priorities in our development policy. Perhaps especially in this world situation, in which we live this winter, this turning of equality, equality, gender equality into an influence for us on the same issues and for these values on a global scale is now at the very centre, and it is essential that we make a strong mark on this issue. As early as last autumn, when we met with the Nordic Development Ministers, we agreed with my Presidency that we would step up cooperation as advocates of gender equality, sexual and reproductive health rights, because already there were certain dark clouds within Europe around these issues, and now, of course, with the new US administration, there is inevitably a new challenge, especially within the UN system, but in the rest of the world, for the work on these issues. Finland’s long-term work on women’s and girls’ rights is strongly promoted. Between November and December alone, I have approved projects worth more than EUR 20 million in our bilateral development cooperation to promote the rights of girls, women's rights, reproductive health. For example, when we are opening up a new country programme now in Somalia, more than half of it will be about the reproductive health of women, girls, sexual rights, their empowerment. At the moment, when we are engaged in a round of aid for non-governmental organisations aiming at international action, we are preparing it, in particular, to respond to this world political situation, so that in practice we are in absolute terms doubling the proportion of women's and girls' reproductive health, the proportion of women's and girls' sexual rights organisations, in absolute terms, even more than we triple in relative terms. In other words, we have made a clear choice – of course, a long time ago – in favour of women's and girls' rights, which was confirmed here in Parliament a year ago in a development policy report, and now we are determined to respond to this world situation in such a way that we particularly raise the issue of women's and girls' sexual rights, reproductive health issues in our own development policy. Well, then the other side: sustainable solutions, carbon neutrality. Of course, the Finnish Government itself is perhaps moving forward more ambitiously than has ever been the case in Finland — and, in fact, more ambitious than in any other Western country — by giving up the use of coal, by halving the use of imported oil. In fact, it is also essential development work by means of the fact that in that way we will be able to come up with solutions that are actually important when we multiply them in those developing countries. And that is why we are now increasing new types of investment funding for public sector investment projects in developing countries. Last week I was in Myanmar discussing their solar panels projects, in which Finnfund is initially involved, their waste water projects, which use these interest-bearing loans, Finnfund elements, and their resources are fortunately increasing. Thirdly, I would like to raise the line of work, including in development policy. To this we are bringing new risk-sharing funding, we are negotiating a joint fund window with the World Bank to empower entrepreneurship, especially in eastern Africa. We're negotiating to take Slush's start-up event there. This type of thing can have a significant impact on the genuine rise of these countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u7	Now for the group discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u8	Madam President! The concept of sustainable development is based on the Nordic value base. The concept was first launched by the Brundtland Commission in 1987. The Nordic countries have a special responsibility for achieving the goals of economic, social and environmental sustainability, both in the Nordic countries and globally. Finland has taken on the obligation of sustainable development by taking the lead. Today's Government report is a 100-year-old Finland's action plan to promote goals in our country, and we have also received worldwide praise for it. The central parliamentary group thanks the Government for the extensive preparation of the programme. The Government has heard a large number of stakeholders and has taken advantage of the views expressed at the events. The implementation of the programme is the responsibility of the government, but neither the current government nor future governments can succeed alone. This success will be determined by a comprehensive commitment involving municipalities, provinces, businesses, civil society as a whole, in addition to the state. Mr President! Sustainable development comes from everyday choices. The daily decisions made by Finns in homes, shops, workplaces form the basis for a sustainable future. Responsible consumption, recycling, favouring local food and reducing food loss, renewable energy solutions for mobility and heating are examples of activities that are of great importance in the pursuit of a lifestyle that is as environmentally friendly as possible. In turn, it is the responsibility of the government to create the right conditions and incentives to promote responsible choices. Two thirds of public procurement is made in municipalities. Thus, municipalities play an important role in making sustainable choices. The new councils selected in the forthcoming municipal elections can contribute to stimulating development and encouraging their municipalities to develop their own social commitments to sustainable development. The fight against climate change requires, in particular, the abandonment of fossil fuels. The Government’s key renewable energy project aims at more than 50% of renewable energy use in the 2020s. By 2030, the share of renewable transport fuels will be raised to at least 40%. Sustainable bio-economy and circular economy solutions are also an important export sector for Finland in which we contribute to the fight against climate change. The potential of the bioeconomy and cleantech business must be promoted through research and innovation policy. The central parliamentary group encourages the government to steer business support in such a way as to lead to innovative solutions for sustainable development. Mr President! Sustainable economic growth provides the basis for equal, equal and competent Finland. The modernisation of services must be carried out in a socially and environmentally sustainable way. Among other things, the reform of social and health care makes it possible to allocate resources more and more customer-orientedly to preventive and effective work. In turn, developing digital services can strengthen the ability of older people to function, support housing at home and create new connections to care. Sustainable development is about global overgeneration. Finland must continue to be at the forefront of development both at home and internationally. It is important that Finland concentrates its limited resources in the UN system on the implementation of women's and girls' rights and gender equality work. Mr President! The Government report closely links Parliament and committees to the work of sustainable development, and this work concerns all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u9	Mr President! What is sustainable development? Sustainable development is a controlled change aimed at creating sustainable living conditions for present and future generations. Sustainable development is not only a matter of nature but also of economic policy based on sustainable growth and a socially sustainable society. The Government's report discusses Finland's priorities for achieving the UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Agenda 2030 is a global agenda with 17 targets that are applicable at national level. The Government's target programme focuses on carbon neutral and equal Finland. In the opinion of the Finnish People's Party, measures aimed at reducing unemployment, preventing exclusion and halting inequality are particularly important in the target programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u12	Mr President! "It would be terrible if you had a pain in the ground. It's so beautiful." These troubled words were spoken by Snoopy Cheese in Moomin Troll and Tail Star. In Finland, we are already well advanced in many of the 2030 Agenda objectives. We must be proud of that, but this pride must only be seen as a more ambitious way forward in our objective. The maiden of Finland may be the ten-year-old girl who changes the world and achieves the goals set for her comma — less is not enough. The main theme of Agenda 2030 is that no one should be left behind. National implementation is based on two priorities, where we have the most pressing and, on the other hand, as much as possible to give to the rest of the world. These two points are carbon neutrality and resource wisdom as well as equality, equality and knowledge. Just as we are concerned about the sustainability of public finances, we must ensure that the use of natural resources remains within the limits of natural capacity, or rather returns to it. The recent national energy and climate strategy has decided to abandon the use of coal by 2030. Unfortunately, our carbon footprint relative to the population is still one of the highest in the world. Carbon-neutral Finland is an objective that we must really stick to. Reducing energy consumption and, sooner or later, completely abandoning fossil fuels are essential steps for the environment, human well-being and a sustainable world. In many ways responsibility falls on the shoulders of large cities and urban areas in particular. Although Finland is one of the least urbanised Western countries, it is clear that every problem, especially concerning the future and large masses of people, is mainly solved in cities. Large cities seeking urban planning, public procurement and carbon neutrality play a key role in making the whole of Finland carbon neutral. Cities should also be able to replace coal in the production of district heat with more environmentally friendly solutions as soon as possible and in anticipation of the future. Mr President! In the Development Policy Report, the Government is committed to strengthening the rights and status of girls and women, developing the economy of developing countries to enhance prosperity, strengthening the democratic character of societies, improving the sustainability of natural resources and improving the necessities of life, namely food security, water and energy availability. The Government’s development policy is in line with Agenda 2030’s objectives to turn global development into a path where people’s well-being and human rights, economic prosperity and stability of societies are secured in an environmentally sustainable way and extreme poverty in the world is eliminated. In a new world situation where the free movement of people and free trade are under threat, Finland must be at the forefront of defending open markets. Open and free trade between countries will, in particular, provide developing countries with better market access. Free world trade is by far the most effective way of reducing absolute poverty, reducing disparities in development between countries and promoting the dissemination of technologies to prevent climate change to developing countries. Open world markets promote green growth and employment in Finland and globally. Mr President! The main factor causing inequality in Finland is unemployment. We must make every effort to reduce it. One of the key and important steps to be taken so far is the comprehensive reform of family leave. A reform for employment and equality should be launched as a matter of urgency. The reform of family leave would have a positive impact, particularly on the position of young women in the labour market, which would also improve women's pension accumulation throughout their working lives and tighten the gender gap in pensions. Each of us has the right to feel accepted just as we do. In our society, hate speech is like an infectious disease that everyone can influence through their own actions. It is not enough just to make the symptoms right, but also to improve the cause of bad feeling. Therefore, it is important to try to understand the reasons for hate speech, but this does not mean acceptance. Racism must be said unambiguously and unconditionally no. Political leaders, current and future party chairmen have a huge responsibility here. Mr President! The well-being of children and young people is the basis for a sustainable future both in Finland and globally. A safe school day, a day-to-day life supporting the development of the child and the possibility of moving around are key pillars supporting the well-being of children, which the public authorities must take care of. In a sustainable world, every child has the right to go to school and play, to be a truly child and even to dream of being Batman or Elsa from Frozen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u13	Mr President! Sustainable development is a question of the fate of Finland and the world as a whole. Sustainable development will safeguard the prerequisites for mankind’s life now and in the future. Sustainable development is a future policy at its best. It includes equal opportunities for well-being, inclusion of citizens, sustainable work, sustainable societies and local communities, lifestyles that respect the carrying capacity of nature, carbon-neutral society and a resource-wise economy. "Considering that the UN’s main theme for sustainabledevelopment is an easy one. Sustainable development must always be seen from a global perspective in a mutually dependent world. The challenges facing the world are also challenges for Finland, and we must be there to resolve them. Closure of borders and staring at your own belly button is a kick in your own ankle. This report demonstrates the need for international cooperation and the existence of the UN. Finland must play an active role in international fields. In a mutually dependent world, Finland, if anything, must rise to its size in its efforts to promote sustainable development, human rights and peace. It is in the interests of Finland. Mr President! Sustainable development is a long-term activity. The long-term approach is mentioned in the report as one of the policy principles, but it is hardly reflected in the report's implementation plan, which should last longer than the parliamentary term. In this respect, you would have expected more from the report. In the committee's deliberations, the level of ambition of the report needs to be improved in many respects. However, the report contains many good proposals for measures to reduce long-term unemployment and inequalities, improve education, protect the environment and improve care for the elderly. The question should therefore be asked whether the government is now changing its line. These proposals for measures are in stark contrast to the policy pursued so far by the government. The SDP believes that people must always be at the heart of sustainable development. It would also be more visible in this report. The stakes in humanity cost themselves many times as much. Mr President! In a message to me, one citizen wondered whether he would buy his medicine as a diabetic or use the money for food. If a low-income diabetic fails to buy his medicine due to government surgery, it is reported that more than 24 times the cost will be incurred in the future. So it can be said that the savings in health and well-being cost sickly. In the opinion of the SDP, this report would have been a suitable place to reflect more extensively on the link between well-being and the economy, i.e. the importance of the welfare economy for sustainable development. Well-being and the economy are mutually supportive. Investment in well-being, such as services and education, strengthens the infrastructure of society. Welfare investments also support economic activity and are therefore prerequisites for sustainable economic growth. Decisions always have consequences and therefore need to be further analysed already in the preparatory phase. We need much more evaluation of the effectiveness of the proposals for decisions and the calculation of alternative costs. This government has completely forgotten these things. Financial and human savings could be achieved in the future, for example by investing in free day care or by improving the situation of the long-term unemployed. Since the Second World War, Finland has become one of the best nations in the world. There has been a need for well-being investments. These investments in the welfare state have been an important factor in Finland’s success and sustainable development. Let us hope that this will continue to be understood. The seeds of the future are being sown today. Mr President! Sustainable development requires us to understand the theme of Finland 100 year together. Working together at best will help citizens to have genuine inclusion, where different actors and different generations meet and learn from one another. The power of Finnish society has always been equality, equality and community, including the involvement of all. Sustainable development involves the idea that our society needs every citizen and each one of us needs each other. So let's keep everyone on board.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u14	Mr President! When I was three years old, the law on subjective day care came into force in Finland. Now that my daughter is three, the children's equal right to day care has just been abolished. When I was three years old, the Ministry of the Environment had just been established in this country. Now that my daughter is three, the biggest cuts in Finnish history will be made to nature conservation. When I was three years old, the northern polar glacier was almost the size of Australia in the summer. When my daughter turned three, the polar glacier had shrunk almost half of this. [Right : Powers, Ministry of the Environment!] Mr President! This programme is about what kind of world we leave to those who come after us. Our generation can still stop climate change. Our children can't do that anymore. When subsidies that are harmful to the environment are reduced elsewhere, the Sipilä Government will increase them. Finland was an example to the rest of the world when auction revenues from emissions trading were directed to development cooperation. Now the Sipilä government took this money to help the poorest people in the world and gave it to the industry. At the same time, the government introduced new pollution aid to encourage industry to maintain climate emissions. In addition, the massive fellings planned by the government water down all other emission reductions. Finland’s contribution to combating climate change will be limited due to these fellings. [Right : Pretty thick! ] Mr President! Education is the cornerstone of all development. The Government proposes the reform of vocational education and training as an investment in sustainable development, although it cuts nearly EUR 200 million from vocational education and training. The particular concern now lies with the sons of this country. Already one fifth of young men are outside education and work. Education cuts are the biggest mistake of this government. They break something whose value is not fully understood. The most important thing on the child's school path is the first steps. The weakening of early childhood education contributes to the inequality of children. The limitation of the right to day care and the raising of group sizes are precisely those children who need the most support. The government says that it is now improving equality by "active measures". Of course, government representatives would be happy to talk about how they would improve the position of women by, for example, reforming family leave. Unfortunately, these proposals will never find their way to government policy. They are not found in the Government Programme, they are not found in the Government Equality Programme and they are not found in this report. Mr President! History will remember us as to how Finland bears responsibility for this historic humanitarian crisis. Finland has responded to this crisis by undermining human rights, reducing its refugee quota, making family reunification almost impossible and cutting Finland's development cooperation by more than a third. Almost one-fifth of the funding for the UN Women's Organisation has been cut. More than 40% of UN Children’s Organisation’s funding has been cut. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP) funding was completely discontinued by the government. This is not taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u17	Now, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sarkkinen has spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u18	Mr President! "The Earth is able to satisfy all needs So said Mahatma Gandhi. The message sums up the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development well. Human life - styles, economic systems and politics must be changed in such a way that the basic needs of all people can be met in a world of limited resources, but greed and over - consumption cannot be tolerated. The UN Agenda for Sustainable Development obliges all countries, including Finland. Finland’s biggest challenges to sustainable development are the fight against climate change, employment and economic development. It is great that the action programme is now in place. Unfortunately, the level of ambition of the government report remains too low. It lists much of the things that have already been decided and reduces the number of new openings. However, the guidelines of the Government Programme are not sufficient for Finland to fulfil its commitments to its citizens and the global community. The main lack and contradiction of the action programme is related to the fight against climate change. The ecological footprint and climate emissions of Finns are too high. If all the people in the world were to live like the Finns, 3.5 would be needed. According to the Government’s own expert assessment, Finland’s climate policy has a zero outcome. The carbon sink of forests is decreasing due to massive fellings, which means that emissions reductions in other sectors will be offset. Thus, Finland will not reduce its own net climate emissions in a situation where there is only a few years before climate change is stopped. The report talks about the importance of climate finance, but where are the resources and new measures allocated to it? The programme also talks about the need to reduce fossil subsidies globally, but where is the commitment to look at Finland's own enterprise support policy? Climate work still has many stones to turn around, and Finland, if any country in the world, has the potential to succeed and also to do business at the same time. Mr President! Unemployment is a barrier to sustainable development both in Finland and in the world. Finland’s strength is competence and a trained population. Investment in these is a sustainable management of employment. It would be important to ensure that young people are not excluded from education. The Left Alliance therefore proposes an increase in the compulsory education age to 18 years. Investing in education, research and product development helps Finland and the world to cope with the evil problems facing us. In order to improve the employment rate, an active and supportive employment policy is needed, not to blame and squat the unemployed. In the left's view, reforming social security in the direction of a supportive base would be a real act of sustainable development and a reform of the family leave system would be a means of increasing the employment rate for women and promoting equality. Mr President! The cross-cutting aspect of the Agenda is to reduce inequalities. The report recognises that inequality has also increased in Finland. However, I will miss concrete measures to reverse the trend of inequality. The Left sees social security, employment, decent working conditions, public services and taxation as the key to this. Unfortunately, the government has made a policy that increases the economic inequality of Finns. It is inconsistent to talk at programme level about reducing inequalities if, at the same time, you take decisions that increase it. Mr President! Development policy is one of the means of implementing the Agenda. In the view of the Left Alliance, the action programme should include a plan to increase development funding to 0.7 GDP. Policy coherence is the key to development policy. Development funding alone will not solve the problems of developing countries without addressing the tax haven economy and the distortions of international trade that hinder the development of emerging economies. Mr President! Well designed is only half done. Every bill and budget should be assessed from the perspective of sustainable development. Sustainable development should be an integrated perspective in both the civil service and Parliament. The Left believes that there is a need for an impartial Sustainable Development Assessment Council to assess and report on the implementation of the Agenda on a regular basis. The model could be taken from the Economic Policy and Legislative Evaluation Councils. Mr President! Gandhi said, "You must be the change you want to see in the world." As a nation of Finland and each of us as individuals, this message must be internalized, and it must be the guiding principle of Finland's sustainable development policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u19	Värderade Talman! Det är bra att regeringen gör en redogörelse, och att vi kommer åt att debattera den, och att implementationeringen är direkt understald regeringen. Det ska ni ha tack för. Genom hela den ox redogörelsen lyser en cereals att ta i problemmet. Det finns en analyses och den ticker ett brett fält. Hållbar utveckling är inte bara milö, inte bara klimat, economist eller sociala frågor. Agenda 2030 handlar också om pusträtt till vatten, arbete och älsa, med särskild focus på kvinnors och flickors ragtigheter. Hur lever vi hållbart? Det är den mest elementära frågan man kanstalla sig — om man bor på ett klot, som vi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u21	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the group speakers. When I listened carefully to the group speeches, I said that each parliamentary group certainly made the best of what each one can do to achieve this common global objective, Agenda 2030. Among the government groups, Mr Vehkaperä stressed, for example, the issue of social justice and equality — good, just like that. Mr Kulmala made a good point in the fight against unemployment. It is part of the inclusion and, fortunately, we are now in a situation where employment is improving. Mr Multala rightly said that cities play a key role in achieving carbon neutrality. There, of course, we have work to do, and that is why the government is setting ambitious targets to get rid of coal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo. It had a perspective on how well-being society has been built in Finland for a long time. You are, of course, criticising, and we also recognise that there are shortcomings, but that is precisely the investment in long-term well-being was a good and excellent perspective. Representatives Kari, Sarkkinen, Adlercreutz and Laukkanen found mainly bad things to say about this implementation. There is certainly a lot to improve there, and I hope that the Committee on the Future will now be able to consider how we will move this sustainable development forward towards 2030. That is how much I would like to say, however, that this report has been prepared by the government by listing the actions to be taken during this parliamentary term — which will take place during this parliamentary term. Future governments can improve and take further measures to achieve the SDGs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u25	Before the debate, Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u26	Mr President! Thank you for the interesting speeches and the heavy words. First of all, there is, of course, quite a lot of new money that has been allocated towards the end of the group speeches, and surely we, Mr Tiilikainen and I could also come up with a number of uses if there were more. I would also draw attention to the fact that there may be no sustainable development, that the common debt burden of Finns has doubled in ten years, or that this year we are also taking a ton of debt per Finn. It is not the solution for us to take even more debt and then try to direct it to something that is bound to make it understandable against this background that we have scarce resources, that we are not getting anywhere. Within them we have made clear priorities. As far as UN organisations are concerned, it has been said that this year, for example, we are the third largest donor of the UN Women's Organisation in absolute euros throughout the world and in the population fund among the ten largest. We have cut these clearly less than many others. United Nations Environment Agency We have not completely cut the funding from UNEP, as was said in this one speech — such a detail. I would also like to touch on a few other details: it was mentioned that we have increased environmentally harmful subsidies. If we look at the net list of environmentally harmful subsidies as defined by the Ministry of the Environment, then we have reduced it by several hundred million euros when we look at the tax subsidies as a whole. It was also said that we are overcompensating all our other climate action by logging the forest. It is worth noting that the National Forest Strategy, in which this estimate of cutting of 80 million ccs for 2030 was presented, has already been presented in previous governments. This energy strategy, which has now been adopted, will not bring it up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u29	And here's what we're gonna do. I'll ask those involved to report to it. - Congressman Hogwarts, and two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u30	Madam President! No government before or after Sipilä is sure to complete the work of sustainable development. So much for the long-term. So it's been done and it's going to be done. The most important measure of sustainable development for this government is definitely an effort to put the economy in order, which involves improving employment throughout the country in all sectors. Therefore, perhaps the economy as such is not overemphasized. We know that there is sprouting growth at the end of the tunnel for economic growth, employment, but it is an instrument that we can use to achieve sustainable development, and it also employs in Finland. In my opinion, sustainable development is not rocket or astronomy. It is a very concrete everyday activity in the area of sustainable development: for example, promoting local food in detached houses or in their own neighbourhood or in municipal decision-making. In a circular economy we are recycling, not being able to say a pioneer, but we also have good squirreling examples to bring to the world. And the concern that has also been well expressed here is that we are putting the economy in order, improving employment and considering how to prevent exclusion in every way. Humanity is an important value, as the Social Democrats pointed out in their speech. I think it is important that work is carried out over government periods, across administrative boundaries, and all the policy themes and priorities and objectives that have been raised are, after all, time-consuming. No poverty, no hunger can suddenly be eliminated by one act, must be long-term. I think the government has responded well to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u31	Madam President! Finland’s development policy is part of the so-called global dimension of sustainable development, i.e. the work we strive to do outside Finland’s borders. In development policy, Finland’s primary objective is to promote gender equality and the rights of women and girls. Women should have a worldwide right to go to school, to make their own choices and to influence social decision-making. In humanitarian crises, women and children are the most vulnerable in it and often cannot even afford or have the opportunity to go to Europe with the help of human smugglers. On the other hand, they are victims of trafficking in human beings much more often than men. Support for the strengthening of the role of women generally contributes to the stability of societies and, for example, to a structured family policy. I would therefore ask the Minister to repeat what concrete measures Finland is taking to promote the position of women in the world, what kind of projects are under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u32	Mr President! Previous speeches have strongly called for the need to strengthen development cooperation. If we want to achieve our goal of raising development aid to 0.7% in the long term, we need to be prepared for structural reforms that will improve the sustainability of our economy. We want Finland to continue to be an open Nordic country with international responsibilities. This can only be achieved by achieving a high employment rate in the Nordic countries. Without an increase in the employment rate, Agenda 2030's objectives threaten to be unfulfilled. When comparing the employment rate of young women between Finland and Sweden, a significant difference is noted: in Finland, the employment rate of women aged 25 to 44 is 10% lower than that of the western neighbour. The difference is explained by the fact that in Finland mothers are away from the labour market for longer than Sweden. In Sweden, fathers use more family-free, which equalises gender differences in earnings, pensions and labour market status. With the current measures, the government will not achieve its employment objective. That is why I am sure that there will also be discussions on family leave reform and free early childhood education in the middle of the debate. This is how speeches can be translated into practical measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u33	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Of course, talking about early childhood education is part of the Agenda for Sustainable Development, because one euro invested in early childhood education is, according to the reports, returning seven times as much to society. This is why, among other things, the SDP has proposed a transition to free early childhood education. Investments in early childhood education would be excellent investments in well-being. The objective of free early childhood education could well be included in the measures of this report. It would be a bold investment and would also look far enough away. Ministers, could the government take this matter on its list of measures, and is the government prepared to consider this welfare economy in the future when decisions are made? The welfare economy is sustainable at its best, and it must be remembered that welfare and the economy always go hand in hand. Well-being investments today will pay for themselves tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u34	Mr President! Having followed this process and now read the contributions of these organisations that have been involved in the 2030 Agenda process, I would also listen to these concerns from government parties with a very serious ear. For example, environmental and development organisations have put out a position in which they very critically talk about the level of ambition of this implementation plan. It seems that this process has been heard, but has not been listened to. In particular, organisations have raised concerns about how this report deals with climate issues, how it deals with education issues, but also how human rights issues are dealt with. So I personally would like to see a very significant increase in ambition in committee and all these concerns raised by the organisations that have not been heard at this point are heard at that point. However, the purpose of this kind of implementation plan is not only to repeat what has been presented in the Government Programme, but to genuinely go through a process that would be able to improve and bring new solutions. The main criticism of the organisations is that this is mainly a version of the government programme and that was not the intention.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u35	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for recognising the importance of gender equality in terms of sustainable development. It is great that we understand that improving the position of women is the key to the sustainable development of societies, and it has also been recognised that sexual and reproductive health and rights are an essential factor in the position and development of women. In particular, I would like to thank Minister Mykkänen for your fresh support for the Dutch initiative to strengthen the funding of sexual and reproductive health and rights in a situation where US President Trump has announced that he is withdrawing funding and threatens to leave women in developing countries without the services he needs. Hopefully, sexual and reproductive health will continue to be reflected in all Finnish development funding, including humanitarian funding. I would also like to thank the government for including measures to combat racism and hate speech in the report. It is a very important theme for which political leadership is needed. Mr President! It is important that the local level should also be involved in achieving the SDGs, as sustainable development choices are often made in everyday life close to people. Consideration should therefore be given to obliging municipalities and regions to draw up their own implementation plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u36	Värderade Talman! Mr President! First of all, I would like to remind the ministers that the speech of the Swedish parliamentary group was largely based on a shadow budget, the total of which is the same as the government budget, i.e. there was no further loan in that speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u37	Madam President! I welcome this criticism that there were little positive aspects of our group's speech. But it is simply because the gap between these stated objectives and actions is so great that it was difficult to find concrete joys there. Let us take, for example, this real situation that we have in Tanzania, where I was allowed to visit last year's side. There has been a cut in our budget in such a way that in a few years it has fallen from 47 million to 13 million. Sweden's budget for Tanzania amounts to 150 million, Norway's 100 million — and Finland's 13 million. Minister Mykkänen is well aware of this when he has been there many times. I would just like to say that we are falling into the lilliput series here, how we are working in practice. We will be able to produce these programmes, just as there are 39 measures here — excellent measures for them all, as long as there is some form of concreteness to implement them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u38	Then let us move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u39	Madam President! First of all, I too would like to thank the government for this report, because it is important, in line with the objectives of Agenda 2030, that parliaments are also involved in this process. Important openings include racism, intervention in hate speech, the promotion of the integration of immigrants. I also think that taking culture and physical activity into account as part of well-being is really new, and it is great that they have ended up here. The problem, however, is that, ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly agree on this objective, but these means will remain eroded. Fewer people rarely achieve better, more equal, fairer, less unequal work — this should have been acknowledged. I believe that these group speeches, in which this criticism was made, called for this too to be openly stated, and perhaps this has been a bit of a problem for us in this debate. Choices can be made; that is what we have shown here in Parliament
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u40	Mr President! For ministers, Tiilikainen and Mykkänen have an unthankful duty here to defend the government line. The one that should be here is Prime Minister Sipilä — he has chaired the Commission on Sustainable Development. Looking at this whole government line, the big thing is that Agenda 2030's sustainable development objectives measure the country's overall policy humanity, its long-term approach to the environment, the economy, the fight against inequality and gender equality. And this government has cut off all these key values: It has weakened the position of women, for example, cuts in social security are more likely to affect the position of women than men.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u43	Mr President! For example, in the position of women: the cost of parenting is finally shared — the act that others were unable to do. I would like us to discuss the issue of overgeneration, moderation, a sustainable relationship with nature and not take on such lilliput, small policy areas, but how. For example, once the bioeconomy has been raised in this government programme, I believe that it is a very important part of sustainable development and that action is bound to go piece by piece: it is time for biogas plants to emerge, it is time for recycling to emerge, there are actions for renewable energy anyway, it is time for renewable products to emerge. All of this is done in Finland, and I would like to see these things raised. We are proud to be pioneers. We are proud that Finland is the most forested country in Europe and that we use these natural resources sustainably.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u44	Mr President! I have always made a policy based on the fact that I thank you when there is cause for commendation, and I criticise when there is cause for criticism. This problem of government policy is precisely this insurmountable contradiction between words and actions, which cannot really be ignored when it comes to this subject, nor can it be criticised in this way from the point of view of the opposition. The government is talking about reducing inequality at the same time as it is being increased: cutting development cooperation internationally and cutting social security at national level. But when Minister Mykkänen mentioned in his own speech the importance of reducing climate emissions for sustainable development both nationally and internationally, I would have liked ministers to comment now on the impact assessments published on the government's energy and climate strategy in relation to the biggest pain point, that is, this over-reliance on the use of forests. Do you think it is appropriate now to re-evaluate these policies, knowing that this halving of the carbon sink will lead to a net reduction in emissions?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u45	Madam President! Several group speeches, and now also Mr Andersson, raised this unfounded claim that emissions would not be reduced now. They'll get smaller.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u46	Mr President! It would be important that when Finland is a forested country and we all agree that it is good that we can use natural resources in Finland in a sustainable way, also in such a way that the jobs of the forest industry in Finland are successful, then it is not worth fooling ourselves and claiming that it is sustainable, which is not, because it is seen through. The problem is that climate change must now be combated in the next few decades, these oversized fellings. The government is in its programme to increase felling significantly. Green energy vision does not add pick-ups from the current amount
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u51	Minister Tiilikainen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u52	Mr President! Firstly, on this economic sustainability: There has been a turnaround in the economy, jobs are increasing. That's good, it's giving back to the whole thing. We are now very much considering this sustainability of forests. For decades we have had a situation in the forests that we have missed a lot of sustainable logging opportunities. The previous government defined sustainable felling possibilities at 80 million cubic metres in the national forestry strategy. At last we are reaching that level, and it is this sustainable use of forests that is also the basis of the government's energy policy, energy and climate strategy. You have been at that level of sustainable harvesting, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u57	Mr President! The fact is that UNEP’s basic funding, the annual funding, has been completely deleted — a fact. There may be project funding. If you've made a corrective decision, let us know. It has not been brought to the attention of Parliament, at least this has not been the case in public. And then to Minister Tiilikainen: So these estimates of these sustainable ceilings are estimates under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, which assess aspects other than what it is about our carbon sink. So it is a theoretical maximum which is difficult to achieve at all, if we do not take into account the fact that it is also sustainable in nature conservation, which is being beaten up and on what basis. It's a theoretical maximum. And even then, the carbon sinks will be reduced. So the question of carbon sinks is separate from what is the theoretical maximum, and that is just an estimate, it has not been a goal. You're adding pick-ups to your energy vision. These previous estimates have only been about what is the maximum durability, which could be beaten for the regeneration of the forest, but for the reduction of carbon sinks, the new study by Sykke and Luke shows — your own researchers in the Government's own survey say — that the reduction in carbon sinks will nullify all other emissions. How do you respond to what your own researchers say?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u58	One more minute's speech to Minister Tiilikainen, and then the debate will be expanded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u59	Make the numbers clear: The growth of Finnish forests is 105 million cubic metres. The maximum sustainable felling volume is 89 million cubic metres, of which you, Mr Niinistö, spoke. But in the national forestry strategy, neither you nor we are aiming for the highest sustainable felling rate in forestry, but only for 80 million cubic metres of felling, so that we can take care of biodiversity and maintain very large carbon sinks. Now that the bioeconomy is on the rise and we companies have been well advised to start investing back in different forestry industries in Finland and we are able to use this renewable resource in such a way that it brings well-being and work to the Finns in a sustainable way, let us be pleased about it, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u62	Mr President! I find it exhilarating how important things are discussed with emotion. My own favorite is antifossilization. As a term, it also extends to politics, to the extent that I long for anti-fossilisation in politics, and this is therefore about generational change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u63	Mr President! The report sees the importance of smart use of environmental technology and resources, for which I thank you. It would be a further step towards a comprehensive understanding that the circular economy combines climate objectives, employment efforts and the potential of the renewable industry, as highlighted in the SDP's alternative budget. We have proposed that the circular economy should become a new government leader — no later than the next government. [Current Group: It's already there!] Public authorities should invest in circular economy entities where one waste becomes the raw material of another. The importance of the bioeconomy is mainly local and national, while the circular economy enables high-skilled production and the export performance of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u64	Mr President! Concrete action has been taken by the government, and now it has begun to become a picture, especially of the opposition, of nothing concrete, or at least not tangible enough, that has taken place, merely plans that lead nowhere. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection commented on the development policy report that investing in renewable energy in developing countries will reduce emissions 3 to 4 times more effectively than the corresponding investment in Europe. So, now I ask the ministers: have any concrete measures been taken in this regard? Finnfund claims that 60% of their investments or funding go to climate projects and between 30% and 40% of those who employ them are women. What about, for example, Jordan’s solar energy projects — there are three projects funded by Finnfund — or the solar park in Kenya? How much do they produce, and when will they be completed, and what economic significance and climate significance are there locally?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u65	Madam President! I ask ministers how the energy use of peat, growing forest fellings and compensation for indirect costs of emissions trading are compatible with carbon neutral, resource-wise Finland. I also ask how increasing income disparities, cutting from the lowest incomes and favouring good and high incomes are compatible with equal, equal and competent Finland, not to mention tightening immigration and asylum policies or cuts in development cooperation and education. Finally, I would like to ask why many possible ways of preventing tax leakage are not put in place if the erosion of the tax base in both Finland and the world is seen as a challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u66	Mr President! This historical report takes as its starting point the social commitment to sustainable development, which is widely prepared for the whole of Finnish society's approach to sustainable development. It will enable any actor and citizen to make public their own sustainable development commitments. Hundreds of companies and many citizens are already involved, for example. The commitments will grow into clusters whose actions will really have an impact. For example, the fight against food loss, the improvement of the energy efficiency of buildings, the strengthening of youth employment and the carbon neutrality of municipalities have massed in commitment. Many municipalities have done great work to promote resource wisdom and then take resource wisdom as part of a normal municipal administration, making every effort to promote it. One of these municipalities is my home town of Jyväskylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u67	Mr President! I will return to the sustainability of Finland's forests in such a way that when Finland makes wood energy, electrical power and we have a lot of municipal power plants where wood chips are imported from Russia, I always wonder why the search for Finnish entrepreneurs is not suitable there. And when they are supported by the tax euro, I ask the Minister: what measures does Minister Tiilikainen intend to take to make full use of the use of Finnish energy wood there, so that these entrepreneurs do not stand in vain and prevent it from coming from Russia?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u68	Madam President! The production of energy through more emission-efficient systems is also sustainable. However, due to the previous government's policy, the current trend seems to be that, at the moment, Finland is running down CHP plants, among other things, and, accordingly, new CHP plants are being built in Central Europe. I have clarified this issue, and this is mainly due to energy policy tax policies and favours coal-fired heat systems, for example, here in Helsinki. My question is: Is this energy policy line of the previous government damaging to this sustainable development in Finland? Is it high time we changed these policies? This combined heat and power (CHP) plant should be protected at home and their operation secured. After all, bioenergy is one of the great things that can be used here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u69	Madam President! In addition to this report, we should also thank the ministers for what they have said. Thank you, Mr Tiilikainen, for mentioning in your speech that young people are not just being listened to, but are actively involved in this implementation. That seems to me to be a matter of note. Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Mykkänen for launching the third line in this implementation plan, which he called the line of work and entrepreneurship. It is quite clear that in development policy we must invest in the role of girls and women. We have often talked about reproductive and sexual health in this Chamber, and we all understand that the place for girls is in school and therefore in the labour market and not at home to care for children. When we talk about Finland, in the name of equality, it should be pointed out that, with the reform of family leave, we would also be able to improve the labour market position of Finnish women very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u70	Mr President! In the past, Finland has been raised from a very difficult situation after the wars by industriousness and by investing in the conditions for well-being. We were aware of the way in which the conditions for well-being are created. There was a desire to create a welfare state with functional services, good education, and before long good day care, subjective day care, was also provided. I am now pleased to note that a new debate has begun within this government on day care. Minister Grahn-Laasonen has opened a debate on free day care. This is also the same objective for the social democrats. Mr Grahn-Laasonen has very wisely stated that free day care would increase the employment rate of women and thus increase tax revenues and reduce the need for social benefits and also increase good buzz in our society. Now that there are representatives of all the government parties in this Chamber, I would like to ask whether Mr Grahn-Laasonen is now doing this good work in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u71	Madam President! Here, in a group statement by the Greens, Mrs Emma Kari criticised practically all the austerity decisions taken by this government. This raises the question of what is the Greens' evidence of the last parliamentary term, when, in one government, we followed the tax evasion policy demanded by the Greens and the rest of the Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u74	Madam President! The objectives of this Agenda, the eradication of hunger and poverty, are important but very difficult to achieve as a result of government action: you have cut almost half of development cooperation. On the other hand, if our planet warms up to 4 degrees, all these good goals are almost impossible to achieve. I must say that the Government's climate strategy is not in line with this Agenda. Your climate strategy is a logging strategy aimed at reducing carbon sinks and burning peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u77	Madam President! I don't know how many people hear things like that that aren't true. First of all, the growth of forests in Finland is currently 105 million mots. That's not a maximum, either. There is absolutely scientific evidence that if we manage our forests in order, we will make thinnings on time, it will be possible to achieve an annual growth of some 130 to 140 million mots. In other words, the forest tree stock has multiplied since the wars, that is, the carbon stock that is located in the peninsula of Finland. There's no point in telling anyone about it. We had an increase after the wars of 50 million mots, now it's 105 million mots. It's probably close to 150 million shots. Forest wood storage is greater than ever, so carbon storage is greater than ever. This is a scientific fact. It's pointless to argue about it. The second point, Madam President, is that today we have only taken the first steps in the construction of wood. We need to build more and more of the wood, which is the most durable material. The government has chosen its path and remains on its path. It is the right way, and, unfortunately, not the green road, for example, is to increase the use of coal, as has happened in this city.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u78	Mr President! This is interesting. For the first time in fact, the objectives of sustainable development have also focused on ourselves here at national level. In fact, I think we all have to look at ourselves in the mirror. Men would also have to look at themselves in a mirror when it comes to the exercise of women’s rights. I would like to ask Mr Zyskowicz: how have you contributed to the realisation of women's rights over the last ten years? Finland is not ready. We don't live in a sustainable way. Violence against women, for example, is the main human rights problem. In what way is it reflected in policy priorities, and why is the voice of women so weak in decision-making? Women's wages are not closer to men's wages. Women still bear by far the responsibilities of family and children. Children's rights to day care and early childhood education are scrapped and minority women and immigrant women are kept at home, and women's disadvantage in the labour market is not addressed. Women’s Responsibility for Economic Participation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u79	Mr President! From this debate, you can say that all things are in some way part of sustainable development, and that is what it is. However, I would like to raise the point of view that, in the final analysis, this is a question of the existence of mankind and of the conditions of life for us on this earth now and in the future in a very concrete way. As the climate warms up at this rate as it warms up, it will draw us all seriously and also place future governments in front of such a policy as we are at present. The objective that we are aiming for carbon freedom, neutrality is quite right, but it must also be done with regard to oil, so that we can get rid of it with our renewable resources and otherwise. We need a real Finnish energy transition, which I think is happening here, and it is also possible. This is a baton of communication that is passed from one government to another, and this applies to everyone. This is a matter of broad consensus to a great extent. I would crystallize this strategy by saying self-imposedly that 'look far away, act now'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u80	Mr President! Last year the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement entered into force. They are the most important ones for mankind, but these agreements are now being carried forward in a very challenging international context. Multilateral international cooperation has been denied and challenged, nationalism is growing, protectionism is growing, and all of this will make it difficult to achieve these objectives. Finland must demonstrate its commitment to peace, stability and multilateral international cooperation, and this national implementation of Agenda 2030 is one good way to set an example. President! Sustainable development is a broad concept, and this UN theme, 'Leave no one behind' — including everyone — brings to mind social sustainable development in particular. I would like to highlight three welfare investments: We should invest in early childhood education, subjective day care law. We should guarantee all young people a summer job, especially now that we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of independent Finland. And we should tackle long-term unemployment. With these investments in well-being, we could promote sustainable development here in Finland and also set an example for the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u81	Mr President! I would like to return to this report and its discussion. First of all, thank the government for bringing the report. This really did go up, like the Minister. Even Mr Tiilikainen said, during the topical debate in the autumn, and the report was wanted, and now we can deal with it. Now that the Minister is still here and there is a chance, I would have asked a few more details, particularly regarding this role of Parliament and this long-term approach, what has been talked about and what our common goal is: we have talked about this external evaluation of this report — what does that mean in practice? This is a good idea and gives credibility to this report, but in what way is it considered? I would also like to ask about the budgeting of sustainable development, which I proposed during the same topical debate in the autumn. Now, this report text has taken a positive view of the fact that such an opportunity to manage results through budgeting would be explored, but is there any more specific plan for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u82	Mr President! In my view, the group statement raised important issues that are currently Finland's problems, namely inequality and exclusion, and they are not solely a matter for this government. Similarly: employment has improved, but unfortunately we still have many of these young people and the long-term unemployed. Then there are different groups: an injury or long-term illness often prevents you from returning to work and coming to work. Now, the "Road to Work for People with Part-Working Capacity" tip project is looking for solutions to these problems. Then, when we talk about this sustainable development, we in Finland could naturally begin nutrient recovery, as is said here in the report, in the Baltic Sea and elsewhere in the water, and the recycling rate of municipal waste would be more than 50%, as has been said here in the report. As far as free early childhood education is concerned, I assume that families must have freedom of choice, whether children are taken care of at home or whether they are:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u83	Mr President! It is great that the Agenda 2030 action programme has been drawn up. And for that, thank you to the government. However, instead of talking and planning, action is decisive, and unfortunately the government's decisions have been contrary to the objectives set out in the programme, such as cutting back on education, basic security and development cooperation, and that is why there is also some criticism here. As far as Finland is concerned, it is estimated that these objectives are most likely to be improved in terms of improving employment and climate policy. We often think that Finland is particularly responsible for the use of natural resources, yet our ecological footprint is the 15th largest in the world. Sustainability is the key to investing in the bioeconomy. Low carbon high value added products, and services in particular, also bring more work than the energy use of biomass. We have also argued about the number of carbon sinks. The Minister himself said that they will first decrease until 2030, i.e. until this programme is aimed at, and it is far too late in the context of combating climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u84	Mr President! This debate has given the impression that everything in Finland would be bad, at least, but if you look at: Even with Statistics Finland's measurement, at least 52 listings make us the world's top class. Finland is the most stable country in the world, the safest country in the world, Finland is the best administration in the world, the least organised crime, the world’s most independent judiciary — and the list could be extended for quite a long time. In this debate, Mr President, there has been a lot of talk about energy and climate, and of course it is one of the most important issues for the centre too. And considering that things should always be left in better shape for the followers, if you consider, for example, the energy strategy of the previous period, there was little ambition. Instead, however, this government has insisted that coal should be abandoned, that the use of oil should be halved, that electric cars should have concrete targets, that biogas cars should have targets, that renewable fuels should have a strong blending obligation, that many, many measures should be taken. I would have asked, Minister, when Mr Harakka raised the issue of this circular economy, which is actually one of the government's top projects — it is nice that the social democrats also come to that point: how can we help, for example, such biogas plants and other key circular economy projects? And what was the situation with the Saimaan Norps? It's obviously not as bad as they let it be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u85	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here today on energy, climate policy, many important areas of sustainable development. In my view, this global dimension has fallen slightly short, and I thought that, in relation to this subject, I would say to the government that it is important to note that the inadequacy of these resources in this area is certainly our key message, at least here from the opposition side. It is difficult for us to understand, for example, that when people have spoken in a very critical way about people moving, looking for refuge in the feet of wars, why it is precisely those organisations that work to remove root causes in these regions of origin that have made these huge cuts. We therefore want not only to criticise but also to work together on these issues, and I now hope that the government, in its mid-term debate, will also take greater account of this global dimension in sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u86	Mr President! For example, solar energy was raised in some of the speeches. We are currently in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government's report on the national energy and climate strategy by 2030, and there are a lot of points in connection with this report that we are discussing today. In either of these reports there are no obstacles to the development of solar energy in Finland, on the contrary, there are also reports on measures to promote solar energy in Finland. Of course, more can be done. However, as we have heard from experts, solar energy is currently an economically sound form of energy production without subsidies. The coal sinks are already here, Minister. Tiilikainen said earlier that they will temporarily decrease but return to the same level after 2030. Mr Guzenina, who had already left, would have merely replied that he would not be doing the unnecessary work of Minister Grahn-Laasonen — I personally support his aims — but it must be made clear that part-time free early childhood education is being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u87	Madam President! Yes, only education and early childhood education are part of sustainable development, and this has been discussed in this Chamber. It is great that different parties have different views and models and examples of this reform of the early childhood education system. I am quite sure that in the middle of the debate, or now in the government review, the government will take up this reform work and some kind of working group will be set up here. Free in early childhood education is a great thing and a goal, but it also has a price tag. For example, do we want to save child poverty with this free-of-charge, or is this hand-lifting for the well-off or what is this? We in the centre want to improve the position of women in the labour market absolutely, but there are also the rights of the child: the rights of the child to childhood and the rights of the child to own parents, home care and care. I appreciate the fact that different parties have different views and families have a genuine choice in the care of their own children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u88	Mr Adlercreutz, Mr Kärnä, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Sarkkinen before the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u89	Mr President! The possibility of free early childhood education certainly does not take away any other rights. Instead, in a situation where integration is a very important issue, the fact that early childhood education is free of charge would also be a good path to it. In that situation, it is not worth paying for, even if the family who recently came to Finland stays at home. The real question is the issue raised by Mr Hoskonen: the use of wood. I have heard rumours that in the future the tree may not burn in Finland more easily than in Sweden. This would be important. Are we really making construction regulations easier in this regard? With regard to climate change, a kilo of wood binds almost two kilos of carbon dioxide — a small house built from wood, almost 30 tons. In other words, the promotion of wood would play a major role in achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u90	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to thank Mrs Harakka, who has already left the Chamber, for her comment on the circular economy. Indeed, the circular economy, as Mr Kulmuni mentioned, is one of the key projects in the Government Programme, and it is a real pleasure to know now that, together with the Social Democrats, we can also contribute to this objective. There has been a lot of discussion about energy policy here, and the opposition has put forward its own alternative solutions, but unfortunately they are very unrealistic, and on some level there is even the impression that the opposition sees that electricity comes from a power outlet, although it does not come from there but must be produced. As far as these carbon sinks and the unfounded claims that emissions would not be reduced, I have one carbon sink which I have been very concerned about. It is the central park of Helsinki, which is being beaten and paved with asphalt and concrete according to the will of the Greens. That carbon sink will never come back if we end up here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u91	Mr President! So the basic idea of the welfare economy is that investing in health and well-being in the longer term brings savings to society and, on the contrary, saving in the wrong things increases the cost of the future. For example, poverty is a poison to health and well-being, and the increase in poverty and inequality are serious threats to sustainable development. Just one example: According to the THL, for example, we would immediately receive an additional 80,000 person-years of work if the incidence and mortality of diseases in all social groups were to fall to the same level as those in the highest socio-economic groups. There are many of these examples, and there is also research evidence. I therefore call for more decision-making based on research evidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u92	Mr Sarkkinen, the reply, followed by Mr Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u93	Mr President! Just as Mrs Kääriäinen said wisely, combating climate change is a question of humanity's existence, no more or less. Climate policy and the use of natural resources should be based on scientific knowledge. According to the Government's own report, the impacts of Finland's energy and climate strategy on climate change are plus minus zero, because while emissions reductions are made in other sectors, additional fellings in forests cause Finland's net emissions not to fall by 2030. And since climate change cannot wait, we need to get emission reductions right away, not after 2030. That is why we are critical of this. Mr President! It is great that early childhood education has been seen here in many different directions as a human investment and an act of sustainable development. There has also been a debate on free early childhood education. This debate is very welcome, but it would now be important to cancel the first stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u94	Then Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes, and then this matter is suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u95	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Parliament for a lively debate! Finland is committed to multilateral cooperation in the world, and Finland also wishes to assume its own responsibility for implementing sustainable development. A plan has just been presented, especially within Finland’s borders. There has also been concern about savings in Finland's development cooperation funds, and they are part of all other regrettable savings, but that spending is not the only one, but the know-how that Finland has in promoting sustainable development is important. It is great that many other countries are able and able to use this know-how through us, for example, in the preparation of national implementation plans for sustainable development. Organisations' participation and aspirations: The Commission for Sustainable Development has been expanded, with about 50 participants from all over society. The preparation of this implementation plan involved a very large number of NGOs and active people. Of course, it is clear that every organisation still wants to emphasise its own objectives, even if they have not come to the full here in government papers. The 450 commitments made — the social commitments of sustainable development — also demonstrate the broad commitment of Finnish society, and that is a good thing. This isn't just a government exercise. In order to be able to assess how we move forward in the implementation of sustainable development, we need monitoring and evaluation and external and also scientific evaluation, and there is a scientific panel to assess and monitor the implementation of this sustainable development. What, then, is our situation at this very moment? I am glad that many years of recession have been ignored, that the economy has turned towards a better one, that employment has improved. These are all the cornerstones of achieving other sustainable development objectives. As far as energy and climate policy is concerned, we will certainly recognise that the European Union is the most ambitious climate policymaker worldwide. Finland has almost the highest emission reduction target within the European Union, together with Sweden, Luxembourg and a few other countries. Surely our policy cannot then be unambitious if it is ambitious? The goals of the Government's energy and climate strategy — decarbonisation, oil halves, renewables rise by more than 50% — are fine, ambitious and comparable global targets. Circular economy: here many have already responded, that is indeed the government's strategic objective, and that is what we want to strengthen. There's one thing I want to do. Of course, it is a shame that this became a bit of a debate between the opposition and the government, but quite a few mouths said about these environmentally harmful subsidies and argued that the government is now very much increasing them. I recall that in the autumn of 2011 we had the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP, among other things. An extension of the energy tax refund system was then made, where more than 100 million additional bills were added to these environmentally harmful subsidies. You did it. The Sipilä Government is now considering a reorientation of these aids in the direction of economic reform, as has been called for here. But this debate between the government and the opposition is hardly going very far. So let us listen to how outsiders assess the situation in Finland. World Economic Forum: Finland is the second most equal country in the world. Finland has the lowest difference in the employment rate of women and men in the EU countries. That is what is said about equality in Europe. Environmental status. Yale University: Finland is the best performer in the world in terms of environmental development and space. It's spiritual capital. World Economic Forum: Finland has the most human capital in the world. Security and society. The Fund for Peace: Finland is the most stable country in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u98	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u99	The next item is the debate and discussion on paragraph 7, which was suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u100	Mr President! I am very proud of the fact that Finland has confirmed, at the top of the UN Member States, that it is embarking on the Agenda for Sustainable Development and the implementation of its objectives. The goals will lead to a more stable, prosperous and equal Finland and the world. Today's Government report is also the first of its kind internationally. Finland, which is carbon neutral and equal, presents how we implement the objectives of sustainable development in concrete terms. Now we're gonna take a really big leap. For its part, Finland makes a record of sustainable development, as it has been able to combine Finland's efforts to promote sustainable development, both national and international, in the same programme, even over the parliamentary term. It is noteworthy that NGOs selected Finland as the best reporting agent of the UN last year. The action programme has two priorities and three cross-cutting policy principles. In all of these, Finland's activities outside its own borders have also been taken into account. This is very important, for never before has mankind been equally dependent on one another and on diminishing resources. The effects of our own actions also extend far beyond the borders of our country and, of course, far-reaching events affect us: let us think of the refugee crisis in Europe and our borders caused by violent crises and wars. That is why it is important, among other things, that Finland is committed to helping achieve the SDGs in other parts of the world. Mr President! The first priority of the report, 'Hilineutral and resource-wise Finland', starts with the idea that we need concerted action to keep the development of the world's population and the growth of material consumption within the limits of the carrying capacity of nature. Finland should produce well-being in an environmentally sustainable and fair way. Thus, in accordance with the Paris Climate Agreement, Finland supports developing countries in their climate action and promotes carbon neutrality and resource wisdom in developing countries. In our own country, an important priority is to accelerate sustainable public procurement in municipalities and government. In Jyväskylä and For example, a biogas system has been created in Vaasa where buses pass through the area with biogas produced from waste. In Helsinki, buses are moving from Neste waste to renewable diesel and electric buses. The strong focus of the circular economy is reflected in numerous applications across Finland. It is also very important to involve private financial flows in the fight against climate change. In Finland's development cooperation, for example, some 60 per cent of Finnfund's funding is directed towards climate projects. Finland also supports developing countries to make use of green value chains and environmental technology solutions. Finland can play an important role in supporting efforts to combat and adapt to climate change in the world. This is particularly important in the poorest countries most affected by climate change. The second priority of the report, "Finland is equal, equal and knowledgeable", states that everyone is a valuable and equal member of society and that everyone should have equal opportunities for well-being, good life, health, work and functional capacity, education and employment. Children and young people, their well-being and gender equality are particularly important target groups, which is also a strong point in Finland's report on foreign and security policy and development policy. Mr President! Gender inequality is one of the main problems in developing countries and strengthening the role of women and girls contributes to all other development objectives. In support of UN organisations, for example, Finland has clearly prioritised UN Women, UNFPA and activities that support equality, women's and girls' education, inclusion and sexual health and family planning. More generally, Finland will also strengthen equality by supporting human rights and equal societies, and will invest in the development of ways of assessing human rights, strengthening the states of justice, democracy and good governance. Finland supports decent work, inclusive growth, equality in working life, equal pay for the sexes and job creation throughout the world. Mr President! The report also discusses the key policy principles of implementation and their relationship with the global partnership. Decisions taken in different policy areas have a significant impact on the achievement of sustainable development objectives in Finland and globally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u101	Värderade fru talman! I statsrådets redogörelse om Agenda 2030 lyfter man fram att Finland uppmuntrar olika aktörer i samhället till egna initiativ för hållbar utveckling. Man concretear aven att innovativ hållbar utveckling ska stödas. Det är mycket bra. Mitt anförande kommer att beröra framför allt klimat- och energidelarna. I en rapport beställd av Tekes constateras att Åland erbjuder de bästa förutsättningarna för att etablera en nationalellt och internationalellt betydande energiplattform för förnyelsebara energilösningar. Jag vill därför lyfta fram möjligheten att göra Åland till ett nationalellt testområde.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u102	Madam President! This plan identifies two key national priorities for the implementation of Agenda 2030: "Lieutenant and resource-wise Finland" and "Nequal, equal and inclusive Finland". In order to implement these priorities, a number of actions have been listed to which the Government has committed itself during this parliamentary term. A sustainable, strong and mutually beneficial economy is linked to the achievement of all sustainable development objectives. The economy is not sustainable without social and environmental sustainability. Compliance with the principles of sustainable development is, above all, an opportunity for Finland to find new ways and create innovations. A good example of this is the strengthening of the circular economy. In it, Finnish innovations can both improve the sustainable use of nature and enhance and support economic growth. One good example of circular economy innovation is Valio's patented process, which makes the slurry of dairy farms more efficient. Sludge is processed into water, fertilizers and biogas, which facilitates the use of slurry as fertiliser, enhances nutrient circulation and almost eliminates nutrient runoff. We should have more innovations like this in Finland, and it is great that the government has made supporting innovations a strong part of the action programme. Finnish food deserves its advocate, and through public procurement we can ensure that we make purchases for our part that take into account, for example, the well-being of farmed animals and the pharmaceutical levels of meat and milk. Since this is a global target programme, we cannot outsource problems abroad, but we must favour Finnish, sustainably produced food. Finnish food is one of the cleanest in the world — researchedly. In this time when populism is rampant, I attach particular importance to the second priority of the implementation plan. We cannot build a sustainable society without ensuring that all Finns are involved. It is important that we find ways of preventing and reducing long-term inequalities, and the working group set up by the Prime Minister will certainly give us a chance to do so. It is equally important that we complete the social reform and ensure that we can continue to look after the well-being of all citizens. By improving the equality of social services, we can promote equality among Finns and create a better tomorrow for all. The key government projects also play an important role in this. With the reform of social services and health care services, we will be better able to take preventive action. The increase in inequality that began in the recession in the 1990s is also due to poor employment and, in particular, to long-term unemployment. We must do everything we can to get more jobs in Finland and to increase employment. At the same time, however, we must also look for other solutions that carry on in a changed world and take into account the different structures of working life. The basic income experiment launched by the government is a good example of this. Similarly, I think it is important to take the report of Professor Hiilamo's working group on inclusive social security for further clarification.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u103	Madam President! Some in our country have both suspected and concerned about the adequacy of wood in our forests. As a result, a great deal of interaction is needed between the various interest groups so that the wrong images of the sector do not remain. From the government's point of view, it is also important that the Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions project can be carried forward in a sustainable way and, of course, also in the light of sustainable development. According to the national forestry strategy, the aim is to increase our forest felling by 15 million cubic metres by 2025. However, the sustainability of wood production is not at risk, as biodiversity can be achieved. It is also possible to increase the growth of our forests even further. This just requires good forest management and forest processing. It has been said that the forest grows seven days, but it is only beaten five days a week. Finland has the objective of increasing the use of forest chips, which means that even with the support of the state, entrepreneurs will invest in machinery and equipment related to forest energy. At present, work has decreased significantly as a result of the import application. A cheap Russian import application, which receives the subsidy, is so advantageous that it endangers other Finnish fuels, such as peat and sawmill by-products. The lack of obligation to notify the origin of the application has created a problem in which the Russian application becomes domestic when the operators supply it to Finland. The Finnish application is in a completely unequal position due to Finland's expensive cost structure. I believe that restrictions should be placed on foreign applications. State subsidies, such as support for wood, electricity and investment and tax benefits, should only be granted to Finnish wood. Finland first and others then, should be our principle. I would also welcome the obligation under the law to indicate the country of origin of the application. Currently, when a Russian application comes to Finland, it becomes a Finnish application immediately. Russian chips will be transported to energy plants and also to new plants in the future as Finnish applications. What do you think certification means? As far as I know, a Russian application is not certified if certification means that a written certificate has been issued by an external body that the product meets certain requirements. The requirement for certification would require that the wood chips that end up incinerating are produced by a sustainable forest management method. How can we ensure that a foreign application is certified? If we were to rely more on a Finnish application, security of supply would be improved with decentralised electricity and heat production. The forest industry would be offered ready-made and better motoles. Bioeconomy investors would be offered biomass through forest industry by-products. The economic, ecological and social use of forests would improve and certifications would be better. The circular economy would also improve as ash turned into organic fertilizer. At the same time, the regional and national economies and the vitality of rural areas would improve. These are things that often do not come to mind. Finland first and others then only. Madam President! It is often forgotten that forests are a carbon sink that is easy to grow with quite simple measures, such as swamp forests. We can increase the ashtray significantly. Forest owners should carry out a joint project with larger ash areas. This would make cremation easy and cost-effective from the aircraft. I would like to see some kind of support element being created that would make it profitable in this way. I would like to emphasise that the Government's target programme emphasises carbon-neutral Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u104	Mr President! Thank you for the very important speech by Mrs Kulmala on forestry and its importance to Finland and the rest of the world. Mr President! Sustainable development is difficult to achieve without faith in its own future and in the future of the community. In the future, faith is created in the certainty of one’s own and neighbor’s livelihood. This certainty is created by a strong economy, equality in education and the possibility of working. The quality and accessibility of education must therefore be maintained. In addition, the debt of both households and countries must be prevented in a sustainable way. Life under the debt burden is incriminating for states and individuals and distracts from other important issues, such as promoting sustainable development. With digitalisation, the labour market is changing permanently. Not all of these changes will benefit or remain on the labour market. It is up to our decision-makers to keep everyone involved in the process of change and to make sure that everyone can feel necessary. Sustainable development is not sustainable without a prosperous environment and nature. Perhaps the most precious treasure in our country is pure nature. This is why we need to invest in clean renewable resources. The welfare of nature is in the interests of all. Our unique, clean and prosperous nature enables not only the well-being of Finns but also earning opportunities, the tourism industry based on nature tourism and the export of domestic clean food. And when we talk about clean food, we cannot stop talking about ethically produced food and animal welfare. One of the objectives of Agenda 2030 is to achieve justice and peace. Reaching this goal means fighting poverty and inequality. Employment is the best weapon in this fight. The government does not want the unemployed to squat, but to offer them more opportunities for an active lifestyle and employment. Mr President! Finland is one of the most prosperous countries in the world. We have gone a long way from the poor, remote country of the early Finnish state to the Nordic welfare state. We have made reforms in a sustainable way and they have made our country and its inhabitants prosperous. Therefore, Finland could export different operating models to the world under development cooperation. A great deal has been said today in this Chamber about the very important issue of promoting the rights of girls and women, and Finland is a pioneer country in this. Finnish education has an excellent reputation in the world. Strong education skills could be used in development cooperation. In the future, Finland could serve as an example of basic education and vocational training by exporting educational models in the name of development aid to developing countries and developing countries. The exemplary activities of individual citizens could also provide ideas, and a good example, for example, is Team Rokka, who, partly through his own funding, has done valuable work to eradicate the trafficking of ivory in Africa. Team Rokka has worked in the spirit of Agenda 2030, i.e. trying to preserve the diversity of nature. The benefits of this type of direct development include concrete results and a reduction in the possibility of corruption. I therefore hope that public support for projects such as Team Roka will be increased in the future. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u105	Madam President! Mr Kulmala raised an important point in his speech, namely the threat images of the Russian application and the impact of the reduction in imports of Russian wood chips on the vitality of Finnish rural areas. Indeed, that certification requirement, if it were obtained reliably from outside sources, could be one very acceptable and good way for us to be able to support a Finnish application by appropriate, legal and possible means. That is what I support. But I cannot help saying that my ear has not been broken by that statement, repeated a few times by Mr Kulmala, 'Finland first, others then only'. However, in this Agenda 2030 paper, Finland is also very responsible in aligning development policy, and I think it is very important because I want Finland to continue to be an open Nordic country with international responsibilities and not to curl up with ourselves, but to play an active role in international development policy and the long-term objective must continue to be that 0.7% share of GDP. That is why I also want to bring this perspective to this point that this 'Finland first, others then' brings a little scary echoes from behind the pond. I think there was some other country first. I hope, however, that this will not be the case here in the broader context of the debate on Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u106	Madam President! I am not going back to my previous speech, but I am going to take this afternoon's speech a little further. I very much welcome the fact that sustainable development is now also strongly taken into account in political decision-making. This has certainly been driven by climate and environmental change. However, there is still not enough talk of sustainable development on a global scale on the social side, people and society, and the same applies to sustainable economic development, where sustainable government debt is one of the most important aspects. In the 1990s, there was even talk of the mental sustainability of mankind, which referred to the continuation of human cultural heritage and human spiritual renewal. This side has recently been somewhat less focused on sustainable development. However, I would like to thank the government for the fact that humanely sustainable development, such as the fight against exclusion and inequality, and also the cultural aspect have been taken into account so strongly in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u107	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 3/2016 vp. The debate begins: Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Lapintie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u108	Mr President! The Chancellor of Justice and the good representatives! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has dealt with the Chancellor of Justice's report for 2015, and the committee finalised its report on 20 December 2016. I would now like to mention a number of points which the committee has particularly drawn attention to in its report on the report. In line with established practice, the Chancellor of Justice's report includes the speeches made by the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. In his own speech, Chancellor Jonkka points out his concern about the quality of the drafting of the law. Even in the previous year's report of 2014, the Chancellor of Justice expressed concern about the quality of the drafting of the law, paying particular attention to timely political guidance and the importance of the timetables for proper drafting of the law. At that time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. more than a year ago, agreed with the concerns of the Chancellor of Justice and stated that the quality of the drafting of legislation was problematic. Since then, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this issue, for example in the context of the debate on the budgetary plan, and in this report the committee reiterates its concern about the quality of drafting legislation. One example of the committee's position is that although many of the government's proposals are well prepared and of high quality, there is still room for weakly prepared proposals. It is considered that "it is particularly worrying that there have also been large-scale legislative projects of social importance among those who have not been prepared, which have been brought to Parliament in a hurry without having had time to carry them out, for example, proper impact assessments or order of business". The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses in particular the importance of an appropriate assessment of the impact of fundamental rights. In the report before us, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also repeats its view that there is neither a proper procedure nor a good way of drafting the law in which the Office of the Chancellor of Justice called for a section on the order of the government's proposal to be completed, in some cases, to combat the need to move forward quickly. In some cases, even the consultation round has been called for in an urgent manner, in order to reduce or even give up time. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also expressed its concern at the fact that the central constitutional problem that has been identified has been ignored in the drafting of legislation. From outside this report, I would like to draw attention to some of the opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which have drawn attention to this state of law-making. As an example of the Constitutional Committee's opinion of 19 years 2016, the Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2017-2020: In this opinion, the Committee reiterates the starting point it has repeatedly stated that constitutional considerations cannot be ignored or replaced by references to the Government Programme or the State budget in the Government's proposals. Furthermore, the Committee notes that this is not only a question of professional competence for preparatory officials, but that the economic situation and savings needs have, according to the report, led to an increasing amount of urgency and pressure from the political side on the preparation of civil servants, which may lead to a lack of attention being paid to constitutional considerations. In practice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that the combined effect of the proposed changes in the level of fundamental rights and future reforms should not be excessive. That is why the committee has considered that the implementation of reforms in the same area by means of separate government proposals may mean that the Constitutional Committee is required to assess a particular proposal on the basis of incomplete information and cannot take into account the cumulative effects of different proposals in its assessment. Similarly, the committee points out that simultaneous reforms in the same legislative package should be sought to bring together in a single government proposal or to assess the impact of such reforms on the same fundamental rights as far as possible. As another example, the Constitutional Committee's Opinion 60/2016 on corporate ownership and corporate governance. This government proposal showed that it had been before the Legislative Evaluation Council. Nevertheless, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that the government’s proposal was still affected by the same shortcomings as the Legislative Review Council’s attention. The committee also noted that at the 2016 Parliaments, the government has also submitted a number of constitutionally relevant proposals so late that Parliament has had an excessively short period of time to deal with them. The Constitutional Committee's opinion of 16/2016 concerned state legal aid and lobbying circles. In this regard, during his assessment of the draft law, the Ombudsman had stated that there was a problem with the government's proposal and, in view of the relevance of the drafting of the law, the Constitutional Committee was concerned that the central constitutional problem known was ignored in the drafting of the law, despite the fact that it had been known. The Constitutional Affairs Committee's opinion 45/2016 concerned the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act and further stated that the appropriateness of the order of precedence also requires proper consideration of the Constitutional Committee's practice. Perhaps as a last example, I will take the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the transport cycle, in which the committee raised its concern that the open wording of the penal provision is based on the fact that it was precisely the aim of reducing the regulatory burden that was put forward. The committee stressed that deregulation is not an appropriate basis for derogating from the constitutional requirements. As a matter of particular regret, the committee noted that the aim of reducing the regulatory burden is to justify vague regulation, in particular given that the earlier 2016 Parliamentary Opinion 10 clearly highlighted the requirements of precision and precision regarding monitoring regulation. From outside the report, I would say that, at the turn of last year and at the beginning of the year, there has also been a lively public debate on the role of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Among other things, this debate has proposed the creation of a new institution in the Government to assess legislative proposals from a fundamental and human rights perspective and concerns about the resources for drafting the law. Such a debate is very important and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also wanted to contribute to this debate. In the draft report before us, among other things, the committee has stated the role of the Chancellor of Justice to review the agenda for presentations of the General Sessions of the Government and of the President, and here it has written about the practice of having less than two working days for inspection in general. In this period, the agendas must not only be checked but also the discussions with the Ministry's officials on the necessary corrections. Depending on the quality of the matter, the Ministry can inform the Attorney General's Office of the Government's proposal on legal matters well in advance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs reiterates its view that such a procedure is advisable. And perhaps, particularly in the context of the public debate, I could point out that I personally consider it highly desirable that problems should be brought to the attention of the Chancellor of Justice in good time. In this way, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice will have much better opportunities not only to examine the matter but also to influence the shortcomings identified, and this in turn will help to deal with the matter both in Parliament and in the Constitutional Committee. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would like to emphasise further that in the legislative process, the relevant ministries are the key to taking constitutional aspects into account. It may be very difficult to correct the shortcomings and errors in the preparatory phase in the later stages of the process — almost impossible if we look at the major legal projects that have not been corrected. In the Committee's view, ministries must ensure that they have sufficient skilled staff, including staff who identify and know constitutional issues. In addition to this, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last year has decided to hold a seminar on constitutional control and the development of the work of the Constitutional Committee at the beginning of March. In connection with this report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has reiterated its views in the previous report on the need to clarify the possibilities for developing the division of duties and cooperation between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. Finally, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not specifically assessed the individual solutions or positions of the Chancellor of Justice. I would also like to say that I think that these problems of drafting legislation have enough to do with a report and to think about it anyway, and that is why it has not been justified to assess these individual solutions either. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u109	Mr President! Good chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The chairman of the committee went through the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs quite extensively and the committee has focused on these legislative challenges. As early as in the referral debate, Chancellor Jaakko Jonka's speech on behalf of the State of Justice - the country must be built by law - has raised the debate and has, in fact, given rise to the debate after that debate on referrals. The Attorney General writes: "In the preparation and application of the laws, Of course, the Constitution, and in particular fundamental rights, play a central role. However, it should be noted that the provisions on fundamental rights have a core area of substance. It is a question of seeking a balance between justice and politics. An experienced lawmaker and lawyer professor writes: The balance will be shaken if the values enshrined in the Constitution are not taken seriously. But it will also be shaken if ‘Constitutional experts consider that they can provide scientific answers to questions that are political’. The author stresses that constitutional issues cannot be solved by mere expert knowledge. “The question in the interpretation of fundamental laws is how fundamental rights express values—equality,the freedom of Assessing this is the work of value politicians rather than lawyers.” So writes Attorney General Jaakko Jonkka in the address of the Chancellor of Justice on behalf of the State of Justice in this document. Since then, it has been a matter of debate and publicity. I welcome this reflection, which Mr Jonkka raised in his own speech, more than welcome. Since then, the Chancellor of Justice has stated that 'I find it completely intolerable if, with haste and political pressure, even attempts are made to justify the exclusion of the principles of good lawmaking'. I fully agree with that too. And fortunately, it is said here that 'if' this has been done or wants to be done. Of course, consideration of fundamental rights versus fundamental rights is always in order. This has been the subject of many debates in this Chamber. But now that the Attorney General is here, As I understand it, this is the last time that this is here, and this has been widely publicised and in the debate, I would like to ask that, when perhaps a little fuss arose about this, the public image has given us the impression that these problems have been exceptional in some way during this term of government. Now that you have been acting as Chancellor of Justice for 10 years, soon 17 years combined with the deputy role of the Chancellor of Justice, you have a long period of time to assess whether there has been any exceptional situation in this period. Of course, it may have to be said for itself that the challenges have also been exceptional and the projects are big and significant. But I'd like to hear a little about this from you. I will probably ask for a reply later on, but if I do not ask, I would like to thank you for your long work in the demanding task of the Chancellor of Justice and I would like to wish you well-earned retirements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u110	Mr President! With the Prime Minister's announcement, we will certainly be able to discuss further these Government preparations in the Chamber next week in relation to ensuring constitutionality and good legislative practice. I am also very concerned by this report, which was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also by a longer experience of how somehow this process of assessing and verifying legality has disengaged from the preparation of the Government, in particular the decision-making process on economic policy. The meeting of these two worlds is so distant that my concern is that, although the legal authorities and the Chancellor of Justice sometimes point out that things should be prepared in a certain way, this does not seem to be getting through, so to speak, so that these light remarks are no longer sufficient. To this end, I would like to hear the views of the Chancellor of Justice on how to ensure that both the Legal Affairs Department of the Ministry of Justice and the role of the Legal Officer can ensure that the remarks and comments made to the draftsman on the draft law are indeed taken into account. It would be in everyone's interest not, in a way, to force proposals up to the Council of State, the constitutionality of which is unclear in the Government. In addition, I am concerned that the government has spoken about the Legislative Evaluation Council as if it were going to solve this problem. It does important work, but it primarily evaluates the economic impact of legislation, not constitutionality, so it does not in any way replace the role of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am concerned — and I would also like to hear from the Chancellor of Justice the answer to this public debate — that this government, in addition to the pressure of urgency and economic policy, has this particular problem, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! Mr. Attorney General! When we talk about the speech of the Chancellor of Justice in the 2015 report on the level of law drafting and constitutional interpretations, and above all when we talk about the debate which, as a result, struck the public when, first in the debate in his constitutional blog, a couple of constitutional experts who had apparently been insulted, attacked the institution of the Chancellor of Justice very strongly and questioned the importance of the institution as a whole, and, in the debate, when the Chancellor of Justice himself gave the Helsingin Sanomat an interview in which he continued this debate, which was then recited in the same journal by a few constitutional scholars, there are two things to be clearly distinguished in this debate: The second issue is the level of legislative drafting. I myself have been here for almost 40 years, but when I have studied some documents, I can say that the level of lawmaking and its shortcomings have been discussed in this house for almost a hundred years. As far back as the 20th century, there are the positions of the Constitutional Committee and then, as I recall, there are the statements of the Parliament's Council of Presidents and many other positions that have drawn attention to the level of legislative drafting and the problems there. After all this, huge, huge progress has been made over the decades, but, of course, the bar has been set even higher. The impact assessments on the various key issues that are currently required for the drafting of legislation are not even the ones expected in previous decades in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. So that is one question. The second question is whether the Government, specifically the current government, has ignored the views of the Chancellor of Justice regarding the constitutionality of the laws. If this had happened, that would certainly not have been the proper procedure. Surely, as Mr Niinistö said, more is being said on the basis of the Prime Minister’s announcement — I wonder if it was now next week, in any case, in the near future. But when that public debate came up with the impression that it was Like Mrs Heinonen, the Sipilä Government does not care about the clear anti-constitutional issues and gives a whiff of critical views on this matter, so should Mrs Heinonen ask the Chancellor of Justice: is it your opinion that it is precisely the present government — and I am not talking about matters of urgency — that in some way it has been more general or non-transparent in relation to the constitutional aspects than previous governments? After all, this debate also led to strange excesses when it was demanded that the Chancellor of Justice should prevent the entry into parliament of unconstitutional laws, i.e. those which he interprets as non-constitutional. In practice, the Chancellor of Justice would be able to do this, but if it were to do so, it would mean that the Chancellor of Justice would take on the role that our system should play in the Constitutional Committee, namely to determine whether a draft law is incompatible with our Constitution or not. By this I mean that, of course, if the Chancellor of Justice sees such a contradiction, he will bring it up in the preparation, but if the government wanted to make a proposal and if the Chancellor of Justice de facto prevented such a bill from going forward, he would deprive the Constitutional Committee of its task. Let me take a practical example. Representatives Ville Niinistö and other members of the then Constitutional Committee decided about ten years ago that it is against the Constitution to ban an adult from smoking in his own car if a child is in the car. Well, I think this was a scandalous, flawed position, because I think that the child and its health have some kind of constitutional protection that goes beyond the right of the adult to smoke. Now, at the request of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the government made a practically equivalent proposal to this Parliament. There were a few minor corrections, including the age limit from 18 to 15, and so on. And now this new Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Niinistö, apparently again involved, has approved
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u118	All right, and so many times have been mentioned here the names of the representatives Niinistö and Lapintie, that it is probably justified to take a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u119	Mr President! By the way, I hope that Mr Zyskowicz's speech on his own points of view would also be correct for the constitutional experts. It is clear that they too have the right to express views that are proportional and not an assessment of the absolute constitutionality. I personally see that in these many examples, which Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, the legal scholars have stressed that some solutions would be better compatible with the Constitution than others, but that does not make other solutions contrary to the Constitution. As far as these economic laws are concerned, in the context of our constitutional reform of the year 2000, these TSS rights and people's livelihood rights were strengthened to such an extent that there has been repeated debate in the Constitutional Committee on where some form of legislation that undermines basic income could be unconstitutional. But it is clear that these economic savings laws go beyond this limit only very rarely and this is about such proportionality considerations, and that is also emphasised by these constitutional experts in the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u120	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz made a long speech, and there is not enough time to comment on everything in one minute, but on these savings laws: as Mr Niinistö said and Mr Zyskowicz is well aware, the economic situation in society justifies certain savings, but it must be considered when we go so far from this basic security that it is unacceptable. In this situation, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has expressly stated, as I tried to say earlier, that there is a major problem that the government is bringing together austerity laws whose combined effect cannot be known. This has come in the expert consultation and has often been repeated in the opinions of the Constitutional Committee. I would hope that the government, now that the problems of lawmaking are being discussed in public, will also take action. On this opportunity for a public debate of experts: no, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u121	Mr President! As to the final throw by the representative of the Laplands, who has suggested that experts be banned from participating in the public debate? I have not heard anyone say that, but when these constitutional experts themselves often point out that they do not express their views but refer to the Constitutional Committee what positions the Constitutional Committee has taken in the past or the European Court of Human Rights has taken, I asked, Mr Lapintie, when you have taken a completely different position on these austerity laws than Professor Lavapuro in this interview with Yleisradio, have you noticed that this would have affected Professor Lavapuro's views? When Mr Niinistö tried here to explain that there were no different positions taken, for example, in the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called law tax, the Constitutional Committee took the view that it was not, in the case of the genuine marriage initiative, that it was considered that it was not — as an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u122	Mr President! When Mrs Zyskowicz started by saying this in the radio debate on the Yle channel, I think we should distinguish what kind of public debate we have in an open, transparent society. That's one thing. The second point is the interpretation of the Constitution, and of course, as you said, it is influenced by the previous positions of the Constitutional Committee, by the positions of the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice and other relevant international organisations, and then these experts, namely scientists, professors of universities, draw their own conclusions from it. That's the way it's supposed to be. Then the Constitutional Committee will make its assessment. As you are well aware, the experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee rarely agree. In general, they disagree to varying degrees, and this is what the Constitutional Committee is needed for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u123	Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u124	Mr President! In my opinion, the Government Attorney General's report on the operation of 2015 is a good and well-founded document. It is the case that the monitoring of legality in the country is of the utmost importance for a democratic state, that fundamental rights are respected and that the exercise of fundamental rights in the management of its own work is monitored at all times. The primary task of the Chancellor of Justice of the Government is precisely to sit as the Chancellor of Justice at the meetings of the Government and to ensure that the decisions taken by the Government are lawful, as the Constitution requires, that all public action be based on law and that the law be strictly observed. This is certainly the most important task for the Chancellor of Justice, and it is a matter of time and every moment that the Constitution's requirement for the rule of law and that the rule of law are genuinely respected. The Attorney General's duties include many other duties. The supervision of the authorities, the supervision of the courts, the supervision of lawyers are also extremely important tasks. They form a chain according to which the Finnish rule of law operates. Any citizen who considers his or her right to be violated can today lodge a complaint, and that is the easiest job in the world to do. If you own an Internet connection, it is easy to do it through it, and you can do it by just a regular letter. Of course, it takes a stamp and the right address to go straight to the right place. In general, the public debate on the role of the Chancellor of Justice has often involved a considerable amount of confusion, for example in this debate of recent days on whether the Constitutional Committee has acted correctly in its own work. The Constitutional Committee receives a huge number of different letters from the public, according to which the Constitutional Committee should intervene in this or this task. It merely reflects the fact that we have legal control in this country, but it is quite unclear to the public on a number of occasions to whom the complaint should be lodged. However, if, for example, you complain to the Chancellor of Justice, it is quite certain that if it should have gone to the Ombudsman, for example, this complaint or letter will then be addressed to the right authority, probably because of a normal obligation on the part of the authorities. In other words, a complaint or complaint made by a citizen will probably not be wasted when it is submitted to a certain authority, he will be advised in that connection. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to one point, and that is precisely the delay in decisions which the Chancellor of Justice, in his report, also refers to in a few cases. There is an intolerable situation in Finland at the moment: we have a huge number of different legal cases, we are in the middle of cases, there are complaints about different projects in the administrative courts. Prime Minister On one occasion, Sipilä said that we currently have EUR 2.9 billion worth of different projects waiting for authorisation decisions or administrative court decisions because of complaints. This is a job we should be making sense in this country. It is clear that when big decisions are made, even if some factory project in a locality, the environmental community is activated that the world is going to be ruined now and immediately. Of course, every effort will be made to appeal to administrative rights for environmental permits and many other permits. Unfortunately, however, there are also these professional complainers in every municipality and city with the task of stopping a project, and once you have stopped a million projects, they are praised at the local bar that I have made a significant legal action when I have stopped a big project. The fact that this is the case is the fault of our parliamentarians. We should legislate so well and then give money to ensure that appeals before different courts are as fast as possible, and I think that we should also create such a process of dealing with complaints in this country in the courts, that such unnecessary complaints, in a way such as a pre-examination, would be mercilessly eliminated and that they would receive a short and swift hearing and then these unnecessary complaints would be subject to a reasonable fee for the costs of making unnecessary complaints. Of course it has to be the same for everyone, but this is the way people boast that even that project is not in line with the rule of law, nor is it democratic, because, in a democracy, old Greek wisdom says that the majority decide, most decide what everyone wants to do. It has now gone almost to the side of anarchy that some can stop almost any project with a complaint and then the majority will have to wait years, years. This is also absolutely essential for citizens' rights. The majority of the rights of a project to move forward, a power plant or someone else — it cannot be that a small, small minority can stop everything with a complaint. Yes, in the society that is being built, it must go according to the will of the majority. However, it is all behind the general awareness that Finland is governed by laws and then lived by them. Finally, Mr President, on the forestry side, I would like to raise one point of the law, for example, where legal control is problematic: Article 10 of the Forest Act. There are such forms in the definition of key biotopes, important habitats, for example, that they are not clear, and the erc is a wise man. There are wordings in the legislation that, for example, if you ask the authority whether this is an important habitat in accordance with Article 10 of the Forest Act, the authority says that this is true, but when you drive that forest machine there is no problem. Then, when a citizen complains about it and then there comes an inspection committee there, it is found that it is three meters too close, and the judgment came. So on the environmental side there are such vagues so much that we in Parliament must strive for such divorce and make sure that when legislation is drawn up in this house, so the general, legal, normal procedure of the laws are precise and precise. For we are preventing an unnecessary trial in those administrative courts or district courts, that there will be no unnecessary charges against people because of imprecise expressions. It is true that a very large number of foresters, young foresters and young forest professionals, women, have been charged with breaches of Section 10 of the Forest Act, and when two or three come in a row and then the fine is lapsed, it is in practice, in his life, that if you apply for a state office or other important tasks, these unnecessary lawsuits, mentioned just now, will prevent the development of his career, and it is wrong that this should happen because of inaccurate legislation. Finally, Mr President, as the Chancellor of Justice is now moving on to more peaceful tasks, I would like him to have a good retirement and good health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u125	Then I will give the floor to the representatives who have asked for them at this stage, Mr Lapintie and Mr Zyskowicz, and then to the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u126	Mr President! I would now like to underline that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has produced a year ago, and now again in this report, following the report by the Chancellor of Justice, a problem which it has identified: The duties of the Attorney General’s Office are rather difficult to carry out if, at an early stage of preparation, the relevant preparatory officer does not contact the Attorney General’s Office and requests instructions or comments or advice. This is what I would like to say in this way that, when we keep talking about the problems of drafting the law, we will hopefully be aware of this after this debate in the public domain. That if the Constitutional Committee has stated this in its report, then obviously it has not been sufficiently emphatic, but when it comes to public debate, then hopefully both of these observations will support each other. The second point is that it is extremely worrying if the Chancellor of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice have pointed out the constitutional problems and yet this government proposal has not been corrected. In other words, I hope that this debate, which has now become public, will avoid this problem in the future and take these into account. The Attorney General's Office's remarks are early enough. And, as I said in that presentation, the preparatory stage for the ministries is the stage in which these issues are addressed. For my part, I would also like to thank the Attorney General for his long career.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u127	Mr President! The Chancellor of Justice himself will be taking the floor and commenting with certainty on this debate at the turn of the year, but I would like to say that it is difficult to believe that there would be a situation in which the Chancellor of Justice's remarks on constitutional aspects would not be taken into account in the government. A specific case has been raised and certainly has its own background statement, but it is fundamental that the government should take account of the views of the Chancellor of Justice and, at the very least, in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, raise these constitutional problems and state that the government considers the request for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be justified. Then I would like to say to Mr Lapintie — Mr Lapintie — that I welcome the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on these points that I have mentioned. I believe that the fact that the Constitutional Committee has not gone out to declare savings laws unconstitutional, even though tax reductions are being made at the same time, is a very correct line. It gives Parliament the power of decision in a normal parliamentary democracy. And it would be nice to know how to take care of fundamental rights over a long period of time if the economy were not given any weight. The position taken by the Constitutional Committee on this so-called'retirement tax' was also justified, in my view, because if very strict rules are introduced from this equality act to lead to, for example, tax legislation, it is a bottomless well. As far as any tax law is concerned, we can show that under certain circumstances different people pay different taxes. In other words, I believe that these statements have been justified and also what you said about this order of the marriage initiative. Finally, for my part, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his long and good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u128	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! They're up here. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the committee for the report and the points raised therein. There was this interview for the rest of the year, which then opened up an interesting debate on both the drafting of the law, the monitoring of the constitutionality of the laws and the role of the Chancellor of Justice. Now that it has been raised here, I can give a few words about it to answer these questions that have been asked here. First of all, what is recorded in that interview is my own voice. Then on the subject of how this interview has been headlined in the paper, I have not been able to influence or even get to see it. It was marked in my statement on the basis of a long-term experience that has come to me in this evaluation and supervision of the government’s legislative proposals. It can be said that I was central to the 2014 report in the speech and to the answers I received from the ministries’ chiefs of staff in my small survey. The second source I relied on was the opinions and reports of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the points made in them. Then the question of whether the current government or some other government has ignored the constitutionality of the Chancellor of Justice's bill: this too needs to be explained a little bit by what happens to this debate on constitutionality in general. It is either the rapporteur for the Chancellor of Justice, or the Chancellor of Justice himself is having a discussion with the lawmakers of the ministries, and it is a legal debate between two lawyers, which sets out points of view and weighs up arguments and sparrs out the quality of the arguments. It is thus true that our views sometimes go better, sometimes less well, and it is not a question of it being overruled or overruled by our views, but of two lawyers having a slightly different view, and of why a ministry official wants to stick to his own, there may be a number of reasons, but it is a question of interpretation now. Then when we were asked whether this government had any more of these constitutional problems, which we would have had to deal with, the statistics pikkasen have been looked at and that is 10 to 20 per cent of all these things going to the general sitting that we are going to have to deal with. There are various shortcomings and remedies, and that has remained at the level of what I have been in the Attorney General's Office, which is, in other words, not a great deal of throwing. Then there was also the debate, and here too, the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has not made a constitutional comment in the General Assembly and then, on the basis of it, has entered its opinion in the Minutes, and this has also been a little studied in the light of history. Obviously, no such remark has ever been made in the case of draft laws. It could not really be part of the role of the Chancellor of Justice in matters of this kind, because it is a question of the interpretation of the Constitution, which is the official interpreter of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee. If one person were to take such a radical step, I think it would be against the principle of democracy and would be quite foreign to this legal order. I think that there is an answer to the questions that have been asked. These are very complex and important issues that have been raised here. Then there's one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as it did the previous time, now, expressed the importance of clarifying the possibilities for developing the division of duties and cooperation between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. I do not think this is a bad thing to do. It is only now that there are proposals from various quarters, when the matter has been discussed, that complaints and official control should be concentrated on the Ombudsman and removed from the role of the Chancellor of Justice, so that the Chancellor of Justice can put more emphasis on allocating resources to the Government. In some cases it was even suggested that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice should become some kind of government legal service. I would like to comment on this just in the light of the experience I have, and now that I am moving away from these tasks, perhaps all the more reason I can express views on these without saying that I am defending my own territory. Government control and general government control support each other. Public oversight ensures legal substance expertise from different jurisdictions and gives concrete impressions of how legislation works in different administrative sectors in practice. Complaints and inspections will provide us with information on the problems people face at grassroots level. Experience of the impact of the law on real life is valuable background information when, under the supervision of the Government, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice is required to assess, among other things, the impact of legislative proposals on fundamental rights. It should be noted that the real importance of fundamental and human rights is being tested in people's everyday lives and in the practical application of laws. If the Attorney General's office had no official control, this knowledge and feeling would be lacking. And again, if the Office of the Chancellor of Justice were to be made such a unit providing legal services to the Government, the role of the Office would be turned into an operational adviser and the supervisory aspect would be omitted. Experience has shown that close government supervision is useful in many ways. As soon as we have control and the means to intervene in the preparatory phase, the problems can be rectified quickly and in a lifeless manner before decision-making is taken. The realistic fact is that the overseer is consulted better than the operational advisor. The Attorney General's action arsenal has a preventive effect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u129	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Attorney General Jonka for a fine career and good cooperation over the years. Perhaps one thing was left in mind in the honourable speech. However, there is an interesting contradiction in the fact that the remarks relating to the role of the Chancellor of Justice, for example, about who remains or who is not remaining — the Chancellor of Justice Nikula made quite decisive decisions on this issue — and they affect the decision-making of the Government. If the Government did not take such considerations into account and take decisions forward to Parliament, then the Chancellor of Justice should then leave them to it. But I understood that you were referring to an assessment of constitutionality, which is a little different. In other words, the Chancellor of Justice himself has a large arsenal of various means at his disposal at the Council of State's session, but I am sure that this situation is as you described it in relation to the assessment of constitutionality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u130	Mr President! This is true. This applies to the evaluation of draft laws. For example, in administrative decisions and, in my opinion, in the adoption of regulations, the Chancellor of Justice plays this role, and it should also be found that the regulation is incompatible with the law at that stage, because it is, as it were, final decisions in the Council of State. But when it goes forward to Parliament, I do not believe that such a situation could be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u131	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the PeVM 2/2016 vp. The debate begins: Mr Lapintie, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u132	Mr President! Mr Ombudsman and Members of Parliament! The Constitutional Committee has examined the Ombudsman's report for 2015. Here again, there are a few points that need to be raised. And I would like to start by saying that the Constitutional Committee has not assessed the Ombudsman's individual solutions or positions. The Ombudsman’s report contains the statements of the Ombudsman and the Assistant Ombudsman, an overview of the Ombudsman’s institution during the reporting year, as well as sections on the implementation of fundamental and human rights and the monitoring of legality by case group. First of all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs once again pays particular attention to the section in the report which summarises the main shortcomings and improvements in the implementation of fundamental and human rights. Unfortunately, the ten problems identified in the 2013 report remain largely topical. The committee therefore notes and particularly regrets that the Ombudsman's report will have to raise the same problems from year to year. It is the responsibility of the public authorities to respond to fundamental and human rights violations by means of measures to prevent the emergence of similar situations and should therefore be taken by the Government and the relevant authorities. On the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs welcomes the development that has made the Ombudsman's work more and more focused on monitoring the activities of the authorities in order to promote human rights. In some cases, a simple communication from the Ombudsman's Office has better steered public authorities in the direction of fundamental and human rights, and this development is to be welcomed. Mr Jääskeläinen's speech highlights the role of the Ombudsman as guardian of the rights of persons with disabilities. The Ombudsman is also a national supervisory body under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers these supervisory tasks based on international obligations to be important and agrees with the report's view that the importance of own-initiative control is emphasised by the status of people with disabilities. In his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Sakslin deals with fundamental rights and budgetary savings. Particular attention has been paid to savings and long-term processing times for the judiciary, and the Ombudsman has found through his audits that the lack of resources in relation to the workload is a source of fatigue for judges and other staff. The report mentions the length of time taken to deal with legal proceedings and the shortcomings in the structural independence of courts among the ten main fundamental and human rights problems. These problems are serious and, in the longer term, it is necessary to implement appropriate structural, procedural and other judicial reforms and measures to improve legal protection in such a way that the level of legal protection meets the requirements of the Constitution and the human rights treaties binding on Finland. More generally, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its report on the Ombudsman's report, points out that although, according to the committee's established position, the savings targets of central government finances during economic downturns may constitute an acceptable basis to address to some extent also the level of rights guaranteed by the Constitution, regulation should not, as a whole, jeopardise the implementation of the fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution. Furthermore, on the basis of the general conditions for the limitation of fundamental rights, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also given constitutional importance to the limitation of the duration of the deterioration in relation to the expected duration of the serious financial difficulties in public finances that justify it and also to the ratio of the level of benefits to the state of public finances. It should also be obvious when such austerity decisions are being prepared that they should not undermine the substance of fundamental and human rights obligations. I would like to repeat here what was mentioned earlier in connection with the report by the Chancellor of Justice that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has on several occasions made a serious point about the problem of restrictions on the same fundamental rights or savings on the same fundamental rights being made in a fragmented manner so that it is not possible to create an overall picture. This may even constitute a constitutional problem when the overall picture cannot be seen. This has also been reflected in many of the opinions of experts consulted by the Constitutional Committee when these savings laws have been discussed. Finally, I would also like to mention these assistant ombudsmen — just a moment, a moment. [ Talker browses papers]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u133	Mr President! I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for this good report. I am pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in favour of this development of the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. This is the point I raised in my 2014 report and, as I said there, I do not believe that this duplication of duties of the highest judicial officers is the most effective and appropriate for this society and for people. Now that this quality of drafting of legislation has been discussed here, this issue is also linked to the fact that, if this division of labour were to be developed and if it were to be developed in the direction of general judicial control and complaints mainly coming to the Ombudsman, it would provide an opportunity for the Chancellor of Justice to invest more in this monitoring and development of the quality of drafting of legislation by the Government and in taking into account fundamental and human rights aspects. I know that Chancellor Jonkka, in this context, stresses the fact that public law enforcement and this government control are mutually supportive, and that is certainly true, but I do not think that this is sufficient reason to maintain such a overlapping, inappropriate system. I am quite sure that, even if this general judicial control is no longer in place in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice to the same extent, it would certainly be a good place to exercise this control over the work of the Government without it, and if those complaints were mainly in the Ombudsman's hands, then the Ombudsman's decision-making practice could then be taken into account in this supervision of the work of the Government, which, in my opinion, does not require that the Chancellor of this general judicial control should have. Perhaps now that this constitutionality has been discussed here at all, I could say that even these constitutional professors can judge any bill, even if they do not deal with complaints. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u134	Mr President! Indeed, I thank the Ombudsman for his speech and, in particular, for your energy in raising these judicial resources. Personally, I know a lot of court lawyers who work under enormous pressure, and when those government proposals are interpreted there on the civil servant side, more attention was paid to the fact that the government’s proposal often states that there are no resource implications, even though there are quite clearly and, of course, more and more obligations for judges, which is, of course, important to have a fair trial. Perhaps I would have liked an answer that, when we heard you in that Constitutional Committee, there was talk that some sort of clarification might be made — it may be that I remember wrong — about this burden, at least in court. That there was no actual project in progress, but Mr Saksli's speech said something of this kind that could be taken into account or thus. Is there any way in which this burden on the courts is being investigated by the Ombudsman? Of course, one solution has been for the Ministry of Justice to investigate the transfer of these various cases from the courts, such as uncontested divorces and so on, but it does not solve this problem indefinitely. I would like to thank you for keeping it on the table, and it is very important for the performance of our judges as well. But I would ask for an answer as to whether it will be investigated in any way and whether it has now been examined in terms of the ability of court judges.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u135	Mr. Speaker! This is not the sort of study that is under way, and it is not planned. That it may not, however, be up to the Ombudsman to find out how the judges of the Court of Appeal are able to cope with such a wider investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u136	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u137	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! According to a striking saying, Hakaniemi in Helsinki has the largest tax haven in Finland. Among other things, the Confederation of Trade Unions (SAK) is staying there. In the current situation, it is not possible to get any insight into the property of the trade union movement and the use of money. Since the 1970s, labour market organisations have been given a special status in obtaining tax-free membership income. The right to deduct is granted by the State. In addition, the income generated by the investments of associations and associations is tax-free because associations are considered to be of general interest. The idea of my bill is simple: as is the case with companies, the financial statements of these associations should be entirely public in order to assess whether the principles of general interest are met in their activities. My initiative has been signed by 106 Members of Parliament, but there are no Social Democrats or left-wing laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u142	Mr President! Transparency, transparency and the right of citizens to information are important objectives and, in principle, they are always to be welcomed. The Left Alliance has systematically sought to promote, for example, the transparency and completeness of company accounts and other financial accounts. It is gratifying and welcome that Mr Harkimo is interested in promoting transparency in financial statements. In the interests of consistency, Mr Harkimo and the Assembly will certainly be pushing for transparency with equal vigour, including with regard to country-specific tax reporting, automatic exchange of tax information and, for example, the management register. It is certainly also worth considering whether the accounts of public interest entities should be made more transparent. I believe that this question is fully justified. However, in this case, the same requirement of publicity should be extended to all public-interest entities. That would be equal legislation. Instead, this initiative by Mr Harkimo focuses only on the transparency of the financial statements of the social partners. This limitation is artificial in many ways, so why has Harkimo, the author of the initiative, done so? My interpretation is that his initiative, between the lines and in this speech, which can also be directly heard, is to weaken the position of the trade union movement by calling into question the general interest of the social partners — which was quite clear in this previous speech — then abolishes the tax deductibility of membership fees and, consequently, increases the cost of membership of the union for Finnish employees. This is a classic and in many ways also a very traditional bourgeois policy that has been implemented...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u147	Mr President! First of all, I did not question the right to strike, I did not say anything about it. Secondly, I did not talk about abolishing the right to deduct taxes at all, and my bill does not even apply to it. Secondly, the financial statements, as I said, do not give any impression on the website, even though everyone says they are there — there is no indication but that expenditure is 12 million and investments 50 million. This amount of money that trade unions run, and the property rights and the ties they have, would definitely be made public, and I do not understand how all these other things that are not even part of my legislative initiative were now mixed up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u148	Mr President! What has drawn our attention is precisely the fact that there has been such an artificial restriction on this demand for transparency. And let me repeat once again that transparency in itself is extremely worthwhile, increasing it. So why is this not presented to all public interest organisations but limited to social organisations? That is what is very clear in this initiative: it is precisely the aim of calling into question the general interest of the social partners and, above all, of the Ay movement. What will result if this public interest is called into question? The next step, of course, is the abolition of the right to deduct tax on membership, and once again, as I said, we are in a situation where Harkimo, with its own initiative, is clearly trying to move towards a situation in which the Finnish degree of organisation is falling. So that would increase the cost of membership of the union for wage and salary earners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u149	Mr President! As I said in my speech, I also believe that any association of general interest which has an important role should be covered by the same law. Secondly, in my opinion, if the trade union movement currently has 2 billion dollars, it will not immediately become poor on this issue if they publish their financial statements. I don't understand how we can't make this open. They are ridiculous, the financial statements that are published today. This can be defended as much as possible, but transparency must be achieved on this issue. There's $2 billion in cash that's being run. It is not known which companies are owned, which shares have been purchased. It requires transparency, nothing more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u150	All right, now let's go to the list of speakers and we can reserve the speeches with the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u151	Mr President! Transparency is very important in the economy and in the wider world. In Mr Andersson's speech, I did see selectivity, selective transparency. Indeed, we in the Audit Committee always deal with the financing of the elections. That's where we spend our own money, and we account for every cup of coffee. Influencing interest groups is also a social factor. It speaks of hundreds of millions when we have thousands of euros. So I think it is a question of being open to this money too, as we are with regard to our elections, that would be really logical. But, President-in-Office, from a tax point of view too, it can be asked that in a certain way there is a threefold right to deduct tax. When I, as a member of the Metal Association, am allowed to deduct the membership fee, it is a duty-free income for this recipient, and when this recipient, the Metal Association, gives strike grants, it is once again a tax-free income up to a certain amount of euro, with a three-fold tax exemption. I spoke to the Director-General of the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance — he is retired and I do not mention his name — and he said that this is a triple tax subsidy, but there is no way to intervene. I said that we can't just get into this, but this is also something we should look at.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u152	Mr President! I do not know how Mr Ala-Nissila listened to my own speech, but this selective transparency is precisely in the legislative initiative that has been taken here. In other words, if Mr Harkimo himself believes that this should be extended to all the players of general interest if such a requirement of transparency is made, as I myself said in my speech, then why did he not take such a bill? And as far as this abolition of the tax deductibility of membership contributions is concerned, it does not increase the costs of unions, but it is a question of how it affects the income of employees. That's when the union becomes more expensive for them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u153	To this point, the replies to the speakers, Mr Harkimo and Mr Ala-Nissila, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u154	Mr President! No association of general interest, other than the trade union movement, has such a large fortune. When you talk about the $2 billion that nobody even knows how much of it has been foundationed into different foundations, that money is huge. I don't understand how you can be against this kind of openness. And if, at the same time, we want other associations that probably have nothing to hide, then I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u155	Chairman! I am not here to interfere with this tax exemption, but all the time I pay the membership fee of a sports club or the membership fee of a cultural club, I do not deduct it in taxation. I think this is about interest groups. By this I mean trade unions, business associations, business associations and farmers' organisations. These all exercise the power of influence in society, just as we Members of Parliament do. When we inform all the coffee cups about our own money, would this transparency, which Mr Harkimo calls for in the use of the money by interest groups, not be appropriate? It is quite medieval that these accounts, the spending of money, are not openly published.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u156	Mr President! Mr Harkimo's bill calls for greater transparency and transparency in the practices of the social partners, and I believe that the members of the unions would also like to know more about the activities of their organisation. In my view, the importance of the existence of trade union organisations is not questioned in any way in the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u157	Mr President! Thank you to the author of the initiative for the opportunity to discuss this issue. I myself was the third signatory, and I thought this was a very welcome reform. I would like to reply to Mrs Andersson just as much as you criticised the Finns for saying 'good': Yes, I have signed this initiative in third place, and I have signed an initiative in which the accounts must be submitted for registration and it is public. You yourself added these deductions and others, they are your own interpretation, but I understand that the elections are approaching. Then I wonder that if Mr Harkimo has now taken this type of initiative, with greater publicity and transparency, then the fact that if it does not come to everyone now, then it cannot be given to anyone, in a way, is a left-wing argument as to why they have not signed it. I do not see the representatives of the SDP here, which is in itself a pity. As Mr Harkimo pointed out in his speech, there is a lot of support there. Here I looked, for example, at the election support of Chairman Rinte’s spouse from the trade union — this was on MTV’s news in April 2015. EUR 27,000 had come from there, and President Rinne had received several thousand. Of course, it will be affected by this type of thing. This is how it goes that you sing his songs, whose bread you eat, it says something. I myself have asked myself a written question — and this was also the case — about the tax exemption for dividends from Ay organisations on last year’s side and I was in contact with the tax authorities at the time. It was pointed out that necessarily this would not always have to be interpreted as meaning that the trade union movement would automatically be interpreted as being of general interest, because the law has different conditions which should all be fulfilled, but there has been such an established practice. For tax-paying morality, citizens find it extremely problematic that certain communities can receive up to millions of dividends without any taxation. I don't think this was the point in the first place. I can well understand football clubs, associations of this kind, that they have some income and no taxes, because it has a slightly different idea. I then asked the Minister for Finance what measures are to be taken here, either by abolishing the tax exemption or by creating some sort of reasonable ceiling. I received the answer that during this spring the Ministry of Finance will investigate the matter and consider different models of what to do and whether to do. I'm looking forward to it now. In my opinion, there is also something about the state's revenue. I myself believe that there is scope for a broader view of communities, but that is no reason to reject the fact that there should be more transparency in this matter too, as I understand that Mr Andersson said: if you do not get everything at once, then you should not support it at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u158	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Meri referred to this interlude of the representative of Peruvian Finns in my speech, which I myself spoke of. In fact, the representative of the Finns Party shouted "good" at the point when I expressed my fear and suspicion that this in the long run leads to a development where the degree of organization is falling. And that's where he yelled "good." Does this represent the vision of the trade union movement and the importance of the trade union movement, or do you really welcome the development in which the degree of organization in Finland also goes down?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u159	Mr President! When it comes to tax deductions for membership contributions, that is one thing. But if you think that the trade union movement today has 2 billion dollars and it produces about 5 percent a year and they make about 100 million dollars and do not pay any kind of tax on it, then here are two branches that generate tax-free income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u160	Mr President! Now I have to say to Mr Andersson that there have been two of us here, me and Mr Kike Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u163	Mr President! I just wanted to correct this misunderstanding on behalf of Mr Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u164	Then from the list of speakers, Mr Koski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u165	Madam President! I think it is actually about the biggest nightmare of the red-green Left: turning income into wealth and increasing productive wealth. However, how it relates to this issue — for the Ay movement, this activity has been normal and decisive, but not to these workers, whom they claim to represent. I take it for granted that, with regard to this bill, the income and wealth of public-interest entities should be treated in the same way, regardless of whether they are a trade union, a religious community or even a sports club. Mr Andersson expressed his concern about the added value which the members of the Ay movement will receive in exchange for the contributions they have paid. Personally, I would not be concerned about this at all, but I would feel that it is not a problem for Parliament or the legislator, but it is a matter for the Ay movement itself to produce the added value so that Members can have the service and the right they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u166	Mr President! I'm making a difference between two things. The first is this duty-free income which the trade union movement, as an operator of general interest, can obtain in the form of dividends, for example. I believe that it is possible to consider and determine whether the dividend income of all operators of general interest should be taxed. However, such a measure would most strongly target operators such as the Kone Foundation and the Cultural Fund, who are currently the main beneficiaries of the main dividend income. In the future, these funds would not be able to use these revenues on the same scale to finance research, science and culture, for example, but some of this money would then be channelled through a state which, in itself, could certainly finance this kind of activity with its own decisions. The second question is, then, this tax deductibility of membership fees for members of the trade union movement. If this public interest is called into question and this right from the workers is removed, it is above all the Finnish wage and salary earners whose membership fee is increased to the union. Perhaps as a result, as happened in Sweden, many low-income short-time workers no longer paid this membership fee because it was so expensive and therefore did not participate in the trade union movement. Well, then, who will suffer if the degree of organization falls significantly? It also affects the work that we, as legislators, are doing in this Chamber, and it would also be quite flagrantly inconsistent with what the government ministers here have spoken in a very warm and appreciative tone about this Finnish contractual society. Such a development would be in stark contrast to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u167	Madam President! The main problem, in my opinion, is that the trade union movement has two million members and the number of its members is huge and those who know about this money are just a handful of people who know what kind of money trade union movements run. There aren't many of them. I've been trying to figure it out for a month now. No one's gonna say a word about it. It's just like a secret label. If we are talking about these associations of general interest, which Mr Andersson spoke about, they are probably of general interest, but once these financial statements have been published, then we must assess whether trade union movements are of general interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u168	Mr President! I will return to that slightly earlier situation when Mr Andersson said that the Finns of Peru exclaimed here 'good' and whether this is the position of the Finns of Peru. Indeed, I would like to point out that I did not see it myself, nor did Mr Elomaa. I do not know what he may have agreed with you. But that's it. It would always be desirable for you to be a little more specific than generalized. But, indeed, as far as this tax exemption is concerned, I would like to emphasise once again that this initiative does not interfere with that exemption for trade union duties and does not propose that it be abolished. This is a little out of the question. Mr Andersson has now made a great deal of this point here, as if it were being proposed here. I haven't signed one of these myself, and it hasn't been investigated here. However, I would like to remind you that the wealth of trade unions is quite different when we talk about smaller associations. If we consider that there are tens of millions of tax-exempt revenues, just as Mr Harkimo said, we would see the financial statements more transparently as to how the money is spent, whether it is of general interest or what kind. When I asked the tax authorities about this interpretation of this utility, I was told from there that it would not be compulsory in any way to ensure that all these provisions of the law were fulfilled. But this has only been a well-established interpretation, and it is good to have a debate on this. As far as I am concerned, the tax base can be expanded, but this is not intended to interfere with any small village associations, but rather with large capital income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u169	Mr President! Since I personally support transparency — I warmly support it in all economic activities — and because it is also a very important value for my party, I would like to believe in the sincerity of Mr Harkimo as regards the promotion of transparency. However, when I read this initiative, the first suspicion arose precisely when it was not required consistently to cover all the actors of general interest but was chosen such a selective line of transparency directed at the social partners. And here I am also getting confirmation of the doubts I have had when Mr Harkimo made it very clear that this is precisely a question of wanting to question this public interest. And then we are talking about a completely different political objective than simply promoting transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-15-ps-7.u170	Madam President! After all, it is just a matter of looking at whether they are of general interest, because they are doing business all the time and investing and other things. I do not deny that, if they are of general interest, they can remain in it, but this publicity of the accounts would make it possible to see whether they are of general interest. I'm not saying they're not.
