ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. This item will be discussed until 2.30 p.m. at the latest. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the debate and the matter will be suspended and the debate will continue once the other points of the agenda have been discussed. If, on the other hand, the debate ends before the expiry of the time limit, then the next item on the agenda is the fourth item.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u2	Madam President! I present to Parliament the Government's proposal for a law amending the law on credit institutions. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] EU legislation includes, as an option, the imposition of a so-called discretionary capital add-on for banks and investment firms. This proposal has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance for a year now, [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u5	Mr President! Indeed, when it is time for peace and calm and calm, it is also a matter of considering storm options, and in this respect it is also justified to go through the risks of the banking sector in Finland. However, when there has been a lot of concern and attention in the public debate about mortgage credit specifically for ordinary citizens, it is worth recalling that even in Finland, during the banking crisis of the early 1990s, losses came from corporate lending. The losses of banks, MFIs, on private sector mortgage lending have been very minimal. In this way, too, it is important to stress that it does not happen that decisions are taken which undermine the ability of the ordinary citizen to acquire housing and that these actions are targeted in terms of creditworthiness or risk management in such a way as to involve ordinary applicants for mortgage credit. So the real assessment of the risks is the one that needs to be done, not that these blackmailing measures are directed at ordinary citizens under the circumstances that the ordinary citizen is not really involved in speculative activities. I therefore hope that, in the context of this debate, the committee and Parliament will go through these real risk weights that banks have on their lending, and we will look closely at what part there is, for example, on the side of mortgage lending, the real risk and the risk associated with business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u6	Madam President! It is excellent that, starting with the European Union directive, the starting point is to strengthen the European banking system. Although, as the Minister for Finance said, Finnish banks are currently stable and in good condition, everyone knows that not all European banks are necessarily in good shape. There may be very unusual events in our neighbourhood that require and require the Finnish banking system to be able to manage its own national lending and to act in such a way that everything is done well here. I hope that, when the committee deals with this, it will ensure that the new risks associated with Nordea, in particular as a large bank, are clearly taken into account there, and here as a whole we can all sleep at night while such a large bank is here in Finland, which is a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u7	Madam President! As such, this presentation gives Financial Supervisory Authority a new tool to ensure, if necessary, the risk tolerance of banks. As far as we are concerned, we understand history — recent history and even a little further away — that mechanisms of this kind are necessary because we have unfortunate experiences of a financial crisis in which the risks of banks were actually passed on to taxpayers, and this certainly must not be, and cannot be, in the future, and that is why tools of this kind are good and forced to develop in order to ensure a certain degree of stability. I can also join in this speech with the greetings that have been expressed here in relation to the committee reading. I am sure it is good and proper to look at this overall analysis that what these banks' risks are really the biggest of, but in itself I understand the background to this regulation because of the need that has arisen from the financial crisis itself, and also from the point of view of the development needs that we have in our banking system overall to manage the risks and specifically to strengthen investor responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u8	Madam President! The law on credit institutions will be clarified and additional instruments will be created to better manage potential crises in the future. But when you look at this European banking system, you can say, frankly, that it is swimming deep in debt and that it will probably not be able to get out of it in the next few years. As we know, the European Central Bank is stepping up its momentum as more money is constantly dumped on the market and the interest rate remains zero. I'm sure every major bank manager understands that this is a sort of exceptional situation all the time. This is an attempt to deal with a systemic risk that is enormously high. Everyone knows that these little crumbs that are being added here have no meaning in the event of a crisis. After all, the European banks are collecting around EUR 50 billion of that crisis fund, and all they need is one European bank that goes down — it does not even have to be big — then the whole fund will have been used up. I would hope that, when the Minister of Finance dealt with Ecofin meetings and many other places, he will maintain the Finnish perspective in this respect that, under no circumstances, Finland's responsibilities to increase in this respect, but each country bears its own bank risk. The third point is the deposit guarantee: When the money of an ordinary person is deposited in a bank, the small pieces of money that are paid or retired there, they would not then begin to pay these large banks the enormous risks they have risked by speculating in the stock exchanges and making such maneuvers, which certainly will not all bear the light of day. I would like to see the Finnish people's side in this matter not to be involved in these unreasonable guarantees and different risk systems, but to insist that we take care of the deposit guarantee ourselves and keep our bank in order, and if everything goes wrong in one of the countries of southern Europe, then we will not be involved in that bankruptcy estate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u9	Mr President! It is exactly as Minister Orpo said: this legislation is not related to the current situation in Nordea and to the welcome arrival in Finland as such. But that is the reason why we are having this referral debate with exceptionally poor discussion material, because this changed situation is not mentioned in these explanatory statement of the government's proposal. Of course, it is clear that the committee's deliberations will better address the current risk situation after Nordea's arrival. And help me, there may be more big banks coming to Finland. How do we respond to these risks — a positive problem, in principle, too. The Minister called for crisis management mechanisms to be in place. For myself, I would see that the construction is still quite intense. Last week a Eurogroup met in Luxembourg and discussed the future of the ESM. President Dijsselbloem said that it was agreed that the ESM would be the last public guarantor of this bank crisis fund in the future. This sounds to me to be an increase in solidarity, and I believe that solidarity is needed just to prevent these financial crises. But could the Minister clarify that if the government's line is to avoid solidarity, how does this guarantee role of the ESM sit in it? It is in the interest of Finland itself to promote the Banking Union and the deposit guarantee, and we have, unfortunately, now heard for two and a half years that no progress can be made when some countries do not manage their banking system. Would it now, Minister Orpo, be possible for the countries in which this deposit guarantee is in order to work together to mutate that risk among themselves, and the others will come along when they get on board?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u10	Mr President! In itself, this referral debate, as Mr Harakka said, is very appropriate. It is quite clear that the Financial Supervisory Authority, if anyone, needs new tools. That's a good starting point. But as has already been said on many occasions in this debate, we must live in the world that is here and now and what the future looks like. I will bring up this Nordea case myself in that way, first of all by saying that I think it is a good thing that Nordea is coming to Finland. However, the situation for Nordea is that there are many risks. In Stockholm, for example, the housing market has become overheated. What happens if the Stockholm bubble bursts? Just as Mr Harakka started, so I ask the same question in a slightly different way: have you, Minister, considered the situation that there will also be another Nordic financial group in Finland in addition to Nordea? Have you considered such an option? What would that mean and what measures will you take then?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u11	Mr President! We will probably agree that measures to avoid new financial crises are always good. But the old saying is that the medal has two sides. So is money and finance. In many speeches there has been concern about the ordinary citizen. In this context, it would be appropriate to consider what this means. Who is the ordinary citizen and who is the unusual citizen? What about a small entrepreneur who needs funding, is he an ordinary citizen or an unusual citizen? The law would now include provisions on a specific capital add-on to cover the risk posed by long-term and cyclically neutral factors that threaten the financial system or the economy as a whole. My question to the Minister is: will access to credit for small entrepreneurs become more difficult after these additional arrangements for directives?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u12	Madam President! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that there are banks coming to Finland and that Finland is coming to focus on it on the banking side. It is an interesting debate now that we have had a long time, many years of saying that there is no solidarity of any kind. Now that a certain amount of capital, companies and banks have begun to come to Finland, we are beginning to talk about the fact that there are some good aspects of solidarity. This change in the debate is exciting. I would have asked the Minister two questions, somewhat like Mr Östman: now that there are really additional capital requirements for certain systemic banks, is there also a risk that access to corporate finance may be weakened, because in a certain way money must be put to protect against these risk concentrations? The second discussion will probably be the role of Fiva, the Financial Supervisory Authority. How much direct opportunity is given to the Financial Supervisory Authority to intervene quickly? Is it also a factor that may undermine the possibility for banks to come if they are given the opportunity to intervene quickly, which will change the environment? Of course, the role of Fiva in relation to legislation would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u13	Mr President! First of all, it is good to note that we are now living in a stable economy in Finland in such a way that changes of this kind can be made without causing any particular nervousness anywhere. I personally see this as a preventive measure. This allows the Financial Supervisory Authority to make additional capital requirements on a bank-by-bank basis and, of course, to direct the risk-taking of the bank in question. We also need to be open to the fact that, at the moment, perhaps the only big measure that can be used to wave yellow in our economy is the indebtedness of households. It's a fact. As far as mortgage lending is concerned, I believe that we need to maintain a healthy requirement of pre-saving and ownership. Today, we cannot escape the notion that there is an attempt to circumvent it by increasing the share of company loans, even lending of land separately, by means of garage shares separately, i.e. it seems that there are different ways of circumventing the total debt. Therefore, it is necessary that: Financial supervision will have such an opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue with the bank on its lending policy and, if necessary, take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u14	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal allows the Financial Supervisory Authority to consider adding an additional capital requirement, and such a discretionary additional buffer may of course be necessary. But just as the representatives of Jaskari and Östman have been wondering, is it possible that this will then have a reflection on economic growth in the short term? And then how much can this affect the level of interest rates on loans, for example, because, in the end, it is likely that companies and ordinary citizens will be the ones who will then be paying for these increased costs? Those bank statements raise concerns that the balance sheets of Finnish banks are quite different from those of many risk banks in southern Europe and central Europe. For example, we have a relatively high share of mortgage loans in the balance sheets of ordinary banks, and the Finnish one is the one who, although his teeth are loose, pays for his mortgage, and their risk level is quite low. In that sense, I understand this complaint from the banks about this, that in some way they are now going to have to pay extra money. However, just as we have here in a few speeches, I would also like to talk about this crisis management architecture at a wider European level and about the fact that we have now taken some positive positions on progress towards common deposit protection under certain conditions. However, it seems that this legislation has been very incompletely implemented in many countries and we still have a lot of evidence as to how there are banks with high levels of risk and whose balance sheets have not yet been adjusted. I would like to hear the Minister's views a little more on this side too,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u15	Mr President! The fact that the Finnish banking sector is growing rapidly in relation to GDP when Nordea comes to us does not mean that the Finnish banking sector is in worse shape. The Finnish banking sector is in good shape and we have a good situation and there is no reason for any particular concern. But, of course, for Europe, risk reduction is important. I also think that this always has to do with the important priority of ownership. It should not be allowed to point out that, for example, even if the Italian banks wanted some form of European waste bank to be set up, where the risks of European mud banks would then be cleaned up. It should not be given the slightest line, and then it is also important that Finland itself manages its own banking sector in a model way, which is in order, and then we will always have a stronger voice in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u16	Mr President! Because of my role in the last parliamentary term, it is actually a statement and then a question. First of all: In fact, during the last parliamentary term or after the crisis, solutions were put in place both to improve the national resilience of these crises throughout Europe — and to do so — and then to take these joint actions. Joint actions included, inter alia, a national and Euro-wide crisis management system with crisis funds. That, of course, was a transfer of responsibility from the taxpayers of the states to the customers of the banks. This solution means, for example, that if there is a major crisis in a country in the euro area, its last-hand contributors are not taxpayers of European countries, but customers of banks in all European countries, including Finland, will then be involved in dealing with the problems of a bank in Portugal, for example. This is what the resolution system and this EUR 55 billion crisis fund meant. Well, now that we're moving forward, there's kind of a question I'm gonna answer, that when it backstop, that backboard, it didn't decide how to build it, and when the deposit guarantee system didn't build, how to build it. In this context, I believe that Parliament is interested in the clear approach of the Finnish Government to both the deposit guarantee scheme and, above all, the management of this tailboard. So the backboard means that, when the 55 billion is not enough to do anything, whether it is managed in the same way as this crisis fund, when the customers of European banks are involved, or whether, as has been said here, it is managed through the ESM, because taxpayers from all the countries involved are involved in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u17	The time allocated for this debate is approaching its end, so this is what Mr Orpo has to say, three minutes. We will then come back to the other speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u18	Mr President! Thank you for your very good contributions. A lot of questions, I'm trying to summarise my answer. Firstly, on the European situation: as Mr Pekkarinen said, last season, in the midst of and since the banking crises, we have built crisis management and resolution mechanisms. One may be pleased that they exist and that we are part of the Banking Union. The central idea has been to break the link between taxpayers and banks. In other words, too often, when we too have information in our own country, after the banking crisis, the taxpayers were the ones who paid the bill, so this connection of fate has been cut off. And when we have a large European system, then too, if there is a crisis, it will be very widely distributed throughout the euro area. This has already worked successfully for Spain: last spring a successful bank arrangement was made through the crisis management mechanism. There are two problem banks in Italy that have been managed, one has gone a little bit along the lines of whether taxpayers can participate, but Italy has also made progress in solving the problems. The European banking system, Mr Hoskonen, is in a much better condition than what it was, for example, two or three years ago and is moving in a better direction with these systems. So there are controls and mechanisms also to solve problems, and there has been the ability and evidence now that these work. Then this future, i.e. the development of a banking union as a whole: Risks down, that's our first goal. Risks down. And we have a clear position that the deposit guarantee scheme can only be introduced when risk levels are significantly lower than those at present. I think it is definitely also in the interests of the Finns that one day these risks would be printed down and that we would have a healthy banking sector across the board so that the deposit guarantee system could be in place. But it is now clear that responsibility through this means cannot be increased until there is a significant reduction in risks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u21	This conversation is adjourned. This debate will continue at this session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u22	We will now continue to discuss item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u23	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u24	Mr President! As part of the Government's overall tax reduction on heating fuels this autumn, a net increase of EUR 45 million is proposed from the beginning of 18. This is equivalent to the increase that entered into force at the beginning of 17 C.E. This is a compensatory measure which the Government has decided to implement instead of phasing out the reduction in the CO2 tax on combined electricity and heat production, the so-called CHP tax, as decided in the Government Programme. The abolition of tax subsidies for combined production was considered to have an impact on Finland’s energy economy and the abolition of tax subsidies would not contribute to the environmental and energy policy objectives set out in the Government Programme. Tax increases in heating fuels are considered to be more conducive to achieving these objectives. The tax increase would be allocated both to the energy content of the tax and to the CO2 share of the tax, but the increase would be focused on the CO2 tax, as was also done in the increase that entered into force from the beginning of 2017. This aims to encourage the use of low-emission heating fuels while at the same time improving the competitive position of natural gas vis-à-vis coal. The structure of taxation on bio-based liquid heating fuels would remain unchanged. The CO2 tax on these heating fuels would remain lower than on fossil fuels, thereby increasing the emphasis on CO2 tax to improve the profitability of bio-based heating fuels. Solid and gaseous biomass would remain outside the tax increase. Also, no changes are proposed to the low energy tax on peat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u25	Mr President! This is, as we have heard, the question of the tax increase in heating, power plant and machinery fuels once again. In this speech, Mr President, I would like to draw serious attention to the fact that this proposal also has an impact on the housing costs of ordinary people. The heating costs are rising; when, for example, this district heat is tackled, this is quite a blow to the pockets of the townspeople. Then, too, a lot of heating workers in a detached house experience an increase in heating costs. I believe that this is something that I would like the government to pay full attention to. I would like to ask: does the government already have any plans to deal with the effects of this on housing costs and to compensate for this loss to these people who may suffer as a result of these increases? We have good news for today in itself, and the good news is that, at the request of the opposition, the government has once again withdrawn a bad decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u32	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u33	Mr President! After all, when we decided on an additional increase in the property tax, our objective was not to increase the property tax, but to ensure that the important reduction in early childhood education fees, which was made, can be compensated for so that we adhere to the basic economic policy of the government and safeguard the economic situation of the municipalities when these early childhood education fees are reduced. But now that they have been examined, it has been found that the tax revenue from real estate tax has risen so much that we did not have to do this. I should also like to thank the tax section of the Committee on Finance, which has gone through this matter. We came to the same conclusion within the government that we were able to avoid one nasty tax increase. There is nothing happier than not having to make unnecessary tax increases. Some people usually like it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u34	Mr President! I was thinking about talking about this energy tax, if that's allowed, not real estate tax. The government has today made a good decision to earmark EUR 25 million in the future amending budget to help farmers affected by the difficult harvesting conditions in the autumn. Of course, the natural way to help is to restore the excise duty on agricultural energy products, because wet autumn caused a significant increase in energy consumption in grain harvesting and drying. At the moment, the total energy content tax on light and heavy fuel oil will be refunded to farmers in agriculture and horticulture, amounting to EUR 17 million per year. In addition, EUR 14 million of excise duty on electricity will be refunded per year. But not a bit is returned from the CO2 tax on energy products, which totals EUR 32 million per year. This was removed during the time of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's government. There is no reasonable reason for this. Obviously it was the Greens' demand, but this requirement in that respect was hollow if it was for agriculture to be forced to use tractors and dryers and so on fuel oil. It cannot be reduced depending on whether or not the CO2 tax share is returned. That amount is indeed 32 million a year, so it would be a good idea to make a decision here that even the EUR 25 million will be reinstated. That is what the EU Commission agrees to do. On our own will, we decided to change the procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u35	Mr President! This government proposal is, in principle, quite welcome and good. In practice, the emphasis here is on a tax increase, like a CO2 tax. About three-quarters of the increase will target CO2 emissions and then that one-quarter of the increase in energy content tax, i.e. climate control will be strengthened and, for example, the competitiveness of natural gas against coal will be improved, which is a good thing. For example, the increase in the price of light fuel oil used in house heating and working machinery is a fact, and it is honest to admit that this increase is fully targeted at heating costs such as oil-fired houses and other buildings, but this should not be so gloomy. We are therefore trying to get rid of oil heating, which is exactly the right direction. In addition to private property owners, I hope that this will also have a strong influence on the renovation of the heating systems of buildings owned by the public sector, municipalities, the city and the state. The government does not interfere with the taxation of peat, nor does it propose any changes, so the competitiveness of peat in relation to comparative fuels is clearly improved. In this respect, this proposal cannot be regarded as entirely climate-friendly. However, one day peat will have to be abandoned in large scale energy use for the same reasons of climate, biodiversity of bog ecosystems and protection of water. It would also be good to start including this in the government's tax guidelines over a reasonable period of time. I would like to ask the Minister: what medium- and long-term objectives does the government have in terms of peat use and peat taxation, in particular with regard to climate, water protection and biodiversity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u36	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, these proposed changes would change fiscal relations between fuels in such a way as to improve the competitiveness of fuels with less CO2 emissions, such as natural gas, in relation to coal, and I would like to thank Mr Halmemenpää for honestly admitting that this is a good thing. When Mr Viitanen raised the issue of whether there was any question of what impact this would have on consumers, it must be remembered that, in proportion to the disposable income, the direct impact of the tax increase is very small. In terms of the Gini coefficient, which the opposition has used here many times, the proposed increases are close to zero. In absolute terms, these increases relate to the upper tithes more strongly than the lowest. Is this not precisely what the left-wing opposition has generally demanded in relation to these reforms, that they affect high incomes in proportion to low incomes? It must be borne in mind that households in higher income categories live in much larger dwellings and more often in detached houses. It must be wondered what the line of the left-wing opposition is now, if such an effect, which this has proven to be, is not good enough for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u37	Mr President! From a climate point of view, it is certainly positive that this increase will focus on CO2 emissions, and in that sense it will guide our taxation in exactly the direction that the Greens' proposals have sought. In other words, we must use fuel taxes in such a way that we aim to reduce emissions in all respects, and in this respect this proposal is absolutely to be welcomed. But when Mr Halmemenpää here wondered that, when we take these good steps, why not look at the whole, it is easy to agree with these wonders here, because there are no increases in the taxation of peat. This is precisely how incentives are created to increase the use of peat, which in itself is not in line with the objectives of these proposals. In this respect, this proposal cannot be considered to be the best climate for the climate, and I would like to see peat examined in this context as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u38	Madam President! Here we are discussing an increase in the excise duty on heating fuels, and this reflection is always accompanied by increases in fuel taxes as a whole at this time of year. In this context, when we talk about raising taxes on heating fuels, it has a strong steering effect on the pursuit of renewable energy also in heating use, but the other side of the coin has usually always been about increasing excise duties on diesel and petrol at this time of year. This time it is a clear choice of values for the work line: the cost of working in this country, a large country where people depend to the greatest extent on passenger cars, is not to be raised, which is not to increase the cost of working by increasing the taxation of diesel and petrol, and thanks to the government and the finance minister, Orpo, who has realised this very well. Then, here, Mr Viitanen made it his credit to leave the lower limit of property tax unchanged, that no increase is being made now. I must remind Mr Viitane that it is the government that is taking these decisions here, not the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u41	Mr President! This is a good bill. Once that is the case, we had to come all the way down to the hall and say it out loud, as this is less often the case under this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u44	Mr President! We have talked here about the impact of this bill on oil-fired economies, and certainly it is, as a representative. As it were, they pointed out that older people live in them who have not been able to make changes. Representative Elo strongly defended the fact that this is a very equal tax increase. I would just like to say that it treats the different categories of income in a proportionate way in the same way, not in the same way as those on high incomes. But these figures are from 2012. We have quite an old piece of material here in the background of this bill. With regard to this corresponding increase last year, we required that its impact on income differentials and social acceptability be examined, and it would be very important to find out who the 200,000 people who are still living in oil-fired detached houses are. It is a pity that this government only has a stick and not a carrot, such as the previous government, which had a modest budget of EUR 10 million for energy renovations in small houses, precisely to get rid of oil, for example, for land heating. It is quite extraordinary that this ten million will no longer be found for people who would like to live more ecologically. This increases the cost of living. As Mr Jokinen said there, the excessive compulsory increase in property taxes was cancelled today. Let each one take credit for it. In any case, the Helsinkiites, the Espoans, the New Zealanders commend the fact that barriers to growth are not being built up. But when he spoke of unnecessary tax increases that are not made, is it not?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u45	Madam President! At the outset, I must say that I have bad news for Mr Viitanen: this cancellation of the increase in the lower limit of the property tax was certainly not due to opposition or Mr Viitane's demand, but because, as Minister Orpo has said here, the new estimates of income from the property tax indicate that this increase is not necessary to compensate municipalities for the reduction in early childhood education contributions. When we in the assembly, unlike you in the Social Democrats, do not love taxes, we do not, of course, want such unnecessary tax increases to be in favour. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] As far as this tax increase is concerned, Mr Viitanen is sorry that it applies to ordinary Finns. Well, it can't touch the Chinese either, but this is the result of the government's chosen line of work that we do not want to blackmail, Mr. Viitanen, the taxation of ordinary, middle-income, hard-working Finnish workers, but rather the taxation of disadvantages and consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u46	Reply to the representatives of Viitanen and Harakka. Then there is Minister Orpo's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u47	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Zyskowicz has not now remembered that, for example, taxation of families with children is being tightened up very badly by the government, which I do not think is right. But is it not, Mr Zyskowicz, that it is good for the opposition to make its own choices, to make demands, to explain why the foolish proposals should be withdrawn? Surely it is not forbidden; you would think it would be helpful for you as a whole, and the rights of the opposition certainly include pressure. And I am sincerely pleased about that, and I hope that Mr Zyskowicz will also say that this decision was withdrawn by the government and that this request from the SDP was affected overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u50	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's watch had a completely different voice last week. Now it's an entirely different opinion. But if I may predict, Mr Zyskowicz will still be voting in this Chamber for tax increases this season, so that apparently these tax increases are somewhat secretive to him. When it comes to taxation of work, I am quite sure that the majority or at least a significant part of the 200,000 Finnish residents living in an oil-heated house are pensioners. They're not at all comforted by what you're talking about here about taxes on work. Their taxes are tightening up, fortunately not as they were now, because a retirement couple in Helsinki in Tapanila would have had to pay 100 euros more just for the joy of living in a detached house. I hope they don't live in an oil-heated house. And that is also true of what Mr Viitanen said:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u51	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u52	Mr President! In fact, there are two issues at the same time: climate policy and then tax policy as such. In the basic line of tax policy, just as has been said here at the mouth of Mr Zyskowicz, among other things, we are shifting the focus on labour taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u55	Mr President! We really need to get rid of the oil. It is environmental responsibility, it is the answer to climate change. 2006 I proposed that Finland should set a common objective
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u58	Madam President! First of all, we must thank Mr Heinäluomaa for his recommendation. But as far as this property tax is concerned, there is absolutely no mystery here. At the time the decision was taken by the government — whether it was now in the middle of the debate, I am not sure, it was precisely there — because it was decided to reduce early childhood education fees, in particular early childhood education fees for people with low and middle incomes, and this meant a loss of income for the municipalities, and then it was decided that the lower limit of the property tax would be ensured by raising the municipalities' finances in this respect. Now that estimates have been obtained that this increase in real estate tax is not needed to correct this municipal income deficit resulting from these early childhood education contributions, a decision has been made to cancel this increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u59	Mr President! When I am there in the tax section of the Committee on Finance, I must say that it is not a matter of today's debate on the government's proposal and seeing how that would be possible other than by raising the lower limit. I myself have had a debate in America when the minister was there, already last week, that this is possible because these property tax revenues are rising in such a way that we have no need in 2018 and then 2019. Indeed, the deficit of 10 million has been there, and everyone in the tax division knows the truth about this. It is pointless to say that it is today's business and it is under pressure from the opposition, but it is up to the government to decide for itself. Then on peat issues, when no one here seems to be defending peat: One third of the peat is in Lapland, one third in Kainuu and one third in the rest of Finland. 0.6% of this will be raised and employment will be created, and Finnish technology will be in charge. It is developing in a good direction, but its use is decreasing. We'll have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u60	One more response. Congressman Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u61	President! This debate really has to do with housing costs. When I am also there in the tax section, I can tell you that there has been a debate about this, whether it is a good thing that the State sets a lower threshold for real estate tax and that it is included in the law. This is not a good thing in principle, and on the other hand it also increases housing costs and may also hinder investment in low-profit sectors. This is a question, as Mr Zyskowicz said, of actually compensating for the early childhood education premium, and these tax revenues are always estimates. Now that the economy has started to rise, construction is strong and buildings are being completed, this will also strengthen the property tax base. In other words, on the government line, when we go, we can always do it in time, as we do today, with a good tax policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u63	Mr President! I can't help but mention that this time-making thing is a very second game. As far as I remember, our tax section meeting began 10.30 and 8 minutes before the meeting we did not know what the current estimate of tax revenue was, it was not clear to anyone. Fortunately, however, it cleared this up eight to ten minutes ago, although it took one more period of negotiation before this tax estimate became clear. That each listener certainly, President, is now assessing what is behind this: whether it is a question of determining the development of revenue collection, or whether it is more a question of the development of support for the centre, which then changed this decision, which Mr Zyskowicz also defended with great enthusiasm at the time last week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u68	Madam President! Here Mr Niinistö compared the differences between Finland and Sweden in the use of heating oil. The real difference is significant: Sweden no longer really does, as he said. But in Finland, too, it is probably time to switch to geothermal heat, especially now that a relatively low-interest loan is available and the return on geothermal heat during repayment periods, depending on the circumstances, is between 5 and 10 years. With the current interest rate, you could say that it is a very good investment, and because the oil heater gets rid of the relatively heavy oil burden on his own living and heating. In this context, recent developments have also led to solar energy being used to use this geothermal pump, which also means that electricity does not need to be taken from the grid. And the wisest have taken advantage of the situation that arose during the summer by pumping this geothermal heat into the environment from which geothermal heat is taken during the winter, during the cold season, when efficiency is still significantly improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u69	President! The proposal on which the debate is based is a question of state revenue and, on the other hand, of the direction of climate policy, and I believe that this is the way in which this issue should be addressed. There has been a strong rise in the price of heating fuel, which is 1.88 cents per litre and costs between 20 and 40 euros per year for the owner-occupied household. Well, that's a raise, too, but we have to remember that there are alternatives to that heating in detached houses. As already mentioned, there is wood, there is geothermal heat, there is solar heat, and all the time technology brings new opportunities. So we have a road map to try to guide the owners of detached houses, and everyone well knows that something has to be done from the point of view of climate policy. This debate has also brought up today the removal of the increase in the lower limits of the property tax decided on by the Committee on Finance. I myself was in the tax section, and I would just like to remind you that last Friday the tax section decided that a draft report will be drawn up on Tuesday, which does not raise these thresholds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u72	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, we have spoken in a surprisingly positive tone of this tax increase, which would continue to raise the price of living, and at least I do not love tax increases. For example, extending the scope of the household allowance would be a good way to get rid of oil heating. That would be much more acceptable. The increase in housing costs has been constant and this proposal would generally increase the price of district heat by one or two per cent depending on the type of plant to be used and the heating cost of an oil-fired detached house would increase by around 43 euros a year. Whether it is a lot or a little, it can be assessed by each of us, but at least I do not believe that the people themselves thank the government for this proposal. Mr President! On the other hand, today's withdrawal of the proposal to raise the threshold for real estate tax rates was a very good decision. It should be commended to the government for coming to its senses. After all, there was a good and long referral to Parliament on this property tax issue last week, and yes, I believe that the views expressed here by the opposition had an impact on this correct decision taken and the withdrawal of this proposal to raise the thresholds. Mr Zyskowicz did detract from the importance of the opposition, but last Friday we had already experienced how the opposition could influence it here when it proposed support for veterans, and despite the fierce resistance of the government, the opposition won that vote. Mr President! Minister Orpo said just now that raising the legal thresholds for real estate tax would have been part of compensation to compensate municipalities for the loss of income resulting from the reduction in early childhood education contributions, but I personally do not believe that this increase would have contributed to it. Now the municipalities have more room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u73	Mr President! I would have liked this use of peat, when it was so wanted to dub its use, so much I would have liked to say that in Finland we actually have about a third of the land area in peat and peat growing annually and, of course, binds carbon dioxide to it itself. Although we are taking the 0.6% of the peat that is currently in use there, this carbon dioxide commitment is still growing. We do, of course, have the programme of taking as little peat as possible in the future. But we must also take into account the fact that last season definitions were made of these peatlands, where this peat extraction can be carried out. All of these who are authorised to lift peat are currently those countries which have already lost their natural value, i.e. they have had to be such that they can no longer be defended. Then, when we get this peating up, we can plant a forest there, which then is also a carbon sink even more than this bad crystal, which is there at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u74	Madam President! In this slight increase in fuel taxation through heating fuel oil — or, in other words, the same fuel oil is also used as fuel for tractors — the world is certainly not going to fall. Just as has been said in many speeches, this management of climate policy requires that we try to get rid of it gradually, as Sweden has already done, and let us start using domestic raw materials, as has happened here. Pellet is a good option, geothermal is a good option, air heat pump is a good option. One or, in fact, two options have been forgotten: The second is these excellent domestic heating fireplaces and furnaces, where this particle emission side has also been taken over. With domestic wastewood alone, many people can handle the heating of the house at such a cost that it is really cheap, and the use of oil has stopped. That's the best climate action I can imagine. The peat, which Mr Suutari spoke about very well, is a great opportunity for Finland at all times. It's a domestic fuel. I am a little surprised that no one seems to be concerned about the security of supply in this house anymore. And the second thing: As we know, you have read the papers and followed the media, we are receiving reuse for peat. New products have been developed that are quite revolutionary in the world scale, and they also reduce the use of fossil substances, coal and crude oil. There is only a technological development in this area, and today it continues, and the first factories are being erected in Finland. It is one of the innovations by which Finland emerges from this recession when it rises. Then, when we start to lower taxes, the opposition has severely attacked and suspected that it is all because of them. I'm surprised you didn't use those methods last season. I thought you tried raising taxes last season. What happened: 100,000 more unemployed at a fierce pace, government debt rose exponentially. Have these means not already been tried out, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition? You've already tried it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u77	Mr President! I have to comment on the question of veterans in that I find it extraordinary to put this vote to the government's fault, and this is a contribution which, in practice, put forward what the government is going to do in any case, namely to honour the commitments made to the veterans of war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u80	Mr President! The representative, Mr Lehti, pointed out the options for replacing oil heating. In my opinion, it would now be very important for Mr Tiilikainen's property, when these fall under the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, to stress that this energy advice would now also help those people, often older couples, who do not receive the information themselves or can do these things, so that they too can exchange oil heating for cleaner alternatives, which will then create economic activity, reduce oil dependency and improve the economy of their families. This would be in everyone's interest to move forward. I hope that the government will do this and that the people in the centre will remember their own minister, Minister Tiilikainen, to talk about this, that the elderly couples there in rural areas will also be able to change their heating systems, and not just be able to negotiate in Parliament. Mr Suutari then raised a slightly different point of view on the problems of peat production. In this regard, I have been concerned that, at the end of the last term of government, the national programme for the protection of the bogs was suspended after the time of the Grahn-Laasonen Minister for the Environment, after years of preparation for experts, and that only about one third of the values which had to be protected according to the original plan have been protected. Since then, the money has been cut almost completely from voluntary protection, so the landowner who wants to protect his swamps will not get it. This situation has created a situation in which peat production is still under increasing pressure on values, and that is why we need to move forward in the protection of bogs in order to protect them. Fortunately, in the early part of the previous period, when I was the Minister of the Environment myself, an article in the Environmental Protection Act was introduced to prevent peat production from being naturally produced on valuable swamps, but it only applies to new applications and not to those that were already in the process at the time, so it is a little unfinished matter. Finally, on the refund of the energy tax, which has now become — and the government is adding it — it would be smarter, in my opinion, to support agriculture in some other way that introduces domestic fuels, rather than to support the use of oil in agricultural machinery. It is not far-reaching either, but there is a way to manage this money better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u81	Mr President! After all, it is quite gallant that we well-incomed people here advise those who live in oil-heated houses that why they should change and how they should change and encourage, press and force them into more environmentally friendly forms of heating. Do you really think that it is a question of people not knowing that oil heating is less environmentally friendly? It is a question of this shift from oil heating, if at least for so many other people, Mr Elo, it is difficult and expensive. That is why the previous government had tailored a small budget for energy renovations in small houses to help people from oil-fired houses to more environmentally friendly heating systems. Now I wonder why this government has never wanted this little carrot to be returned to its choice of means: only a stick is waved here and yet a finger is waved on, which is in vain. Mr Zyskowicz stated that this increase in the property tax was intended to compensate for reductions in early childhood education fees. This idea was quite a dim idea, because 170 municipalities would have had to increase their property tax. These include Helsinki and Espoo, which certainly had no need to correct these early childhood education fees, and they would have received money from the cash register in many ways compared to what they would have lost. And then everyone else would have volunteered anyway. It is a fact that if we have been able to influence the fact that this tax increase, which is detrimental to Helsinki and Uusimaa, has now been missed this time, then I am pleased to hear it. I'm just surprised that once we're against a tax increase, we're doing the same thing wrong. We are falsely opposed to tax increases!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u82	Mr President! Of course, the fact that Mr Hoskonen is here reproaching the opposition for the increase in taxes, the motion in which Mr Hoskonen himself and the centre are raising taxes, raising taxes on heating fuels and other taxes on fuels also makes this a little amusing. In this motion you criticised us: you are now responsible, Mr Hoskonen, for these increases on your own, and I would therefore like you to listen, among other things, to the arguments that have just been made about how difficult it can actually be for many low-income pensioners to change this form of heating more environmentally friendly. That's why this is a genuine concern. It is clear from this argument that, for example, Mrs Elo does not know the position of a low-income pensioner for whom this issue is really difficult and cannot afford it, and, Mr President, it is only so that it is certainly the case that the increase in the heating costs of a few tens of dollars does in fact make more money in the cash bag than it does in the case of a people with higher incomes. These things say common sense, things like this. President! Just to return to the previous debate, unfortunately, in the eyes of the opposition, this story of the cancellation of the property tax goes so far that we were still open there for the weekend by the real government parties and at the request of alternatives A and B. The fact that you're not going to give up on me and the fact that you're giving up on me. It was then clear to me today after the meeting, and yet on Friday I realised that the Minister of Finance had not even been able to comment on this issue by telephone — i.e. the issue of tax revenue in quotation marks, in practice the question of political negotiation. I am pleased, President, that this political solution by the government parties also listened to the voice of the opposition and our criticism of the matter. I think it was a wise and good solution in this regard. I'd like to go back to this ceiling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u83	President! I would just like to remind you that there are certain rules of the game in this House: if the government's proposals were changed, it is natural that the government should also be contacted, and because the Finance Minister was at the World Bank meeting and was not contacted, it would have been against the rules of the game if a final decision had been taken on Friday on this matter. So the political decision was made on Friday,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u86	Mr President! Mr Suutari asked why Parliament is still proposing that there should at some point be increases in the taxation of peat that would guide the abandonment of peat more quickly. We all know, and we also know that peat producers know that the energy use of peat will be phased out. I'm sure that's indisputable. But I would like to go back a little bit to what Mr Suutari said as if peat production was somehow a minimal issue for Finland's bog nature and energy use: However, it is good to remember the starting points why criticism is being made. It is not just a matter of nature, it is also a matter of climate, it is also a matter of water protection. And it is good to remember that more than half of Finland's original natural bogland is ditched, not a minimally small part. It is also good to remember that in the recent national peat and peat strategy, the nature of bogs was classified in five different categories, from 0 to 5. Only class 0 is one of those rings that have completely lost their natural state. And it is not as Mr Suutari said that only these Category 0 bogs would be used for peat production – there is also first, second and even third-class bogs. And regrettably, the state-owned company Vapo is precisely the one who uses these even more natural features, unlike peat cane, which only uses zero, first and second-class. These things are not quite right, and therefore the energy use of peat here is criticised and the question is also asked whether it is not time to tighten the taxation of peat at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u87	Madam President! Indeed, this increase in the price of heating oil and the conversion of their houses to a heating fuel other than oil makes sense, of course, whenever that system is technically exhausted. There's no point in wrecking a functioning system. Just as much if you have a very good car in your possession and then you're going to get an electric car, then you better get that old car to the end so that you can take it to the junkyard and then buy that new car. It is definitely the best solution for the environment. Then when it comes to this same fuel oil used by forest machinery and many machines, forest machinery contractors, the majority of them, have a fuel box in the contracts, so if the price of fuel rises, the price of the work will show up. In that sense, the risk — at least on the forest machinery side, which I am quite familiar with — is not there. I don't know that excavator side and the other machine-contracting side that there are similar clausuls in the contracts, but I think there is. So there's no problem with that either. But there is absolutely no point in making any changes at the whim of the moment, but it is worth using up those old heating systems and then introducing them when it makes sense. Economic thinking is not forbidden, no matter how fascinated the demos are. The third point is that there will then be some confusion when taxes are calculated: Mr Zyskowicz himself explained why this decision was taken at the time. Now there has been more tax revenue, and we all know this in this house, that when we are able to calculate taxes gradually, it will certainly compensate the government for the loss that has been created as more jobs, and that when unemployment falls, it will be the greatest benefit to the state economy and the local government economy and society as a whole as a whole. Humanly speaking, it's the best option of all, always. And Mr Halmemenpää spoke of the bog draft. Finally, over 40,000 hectares of peat bogs are used in Finland this year. We're talking about millions of hectares of swamps, so I don't think that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u88	Madam President! It is true that the owner of a detached house, who is not accustomed to geothermal heat, fears the economic and perhaps technical impact of the change and uncertainty. But when the sale of a detached house or property is often accompanied by the purchase of an energy certificate, a calculation could be developed, a mechanistic calculation of how much it would cost to change the heating method. I think that even if you could use that oil boiler for another year, the previous exchange will be more economical after all, because old oil heating is of poor efficiency. The fact that we would then give a boost from state resources to this change is probably unnecessary, because this change in Sweden actually progressed like this avalanche: the neighbour changed, and then gradually the whole street had changed the heating system. From that time on, these power levels in soil heat and recovery have substantially improved. Perhaps it would be worth the State to spend a million dollars on this 10 million communication, which would show that many people would be well advised to take out a loan and switch to a heating system for the recovery of soil heat, and the whole system will reform into a modern solution to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u89	Mr President! I assume that the committee would do a service to the environment and to ordinary Finns if it added to its own report a statement that the committee encouraged the government to make subsidies for the exchange of heating energy available to citizens in one way or another, either through the use of the household allowance or through the use of separate subsidies. That would be a positive signal. I understand Mr Lehde's logic here through borrowing as such, but I also know people's situations that many low-income retired people dread taking out a new loan. However, when we talk not about 1000 and 2000 but about thousands and more than EUR 10,000, borrowing is not the first thing we want to do. At the same time this afternoon, we were warned against this excessive borrowing that households were heavily indebted. It's been an interesting conversation about real estate tax. I have been a little cuckoo here, when I have just thought that this would be the thing that could give recognition to the city centre, because what I heard about the course of events indicated that a small repair movement had started in the centre and that it was also worth taking an interest in the life of the people in the city, and when this had been aimed at the capital region, it seemed that the centre has now woken up to the fact that the increase in this tax may not now be at its best, but there has been a very strong attempt to show that new information about the profits of the property tax came out just on Friday. I wonder, however, because at least I received a property tax slip last spring so that it is a little difficult to see how that information on property taxation has taken six months to come. I've thought that real estate won't be born very much over the year, that this isn't such a baby-making thing that can surprise you in plus or minus marks, but those properties will be there ready to exist. But it might be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u90	On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, in the order of day, this matter of property tax law is here as a report put on the table. That means it'll be here for a referral conversation any day now. So now we should stick to this matter of excise duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u91	Madam President! Unfortunately, I am unable to respond to Mr Heinäluoma's expectations, but I am happy to respond to Mr Haraka. In fact, he said that this would be quite a bit dim if it had been decided that the income received in favour of families with children by reducing early childhood education fees would be compensated for by increasing the property tax. Representative Harakka, this may be a wonderful dim, but this is what actually happened. I was there at the spending limits bar — if it was the spending limits line, I'm not sure which row we were in. [Laughter in the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u94	Mr President, I am sorry to disappoint you, but this debate has gone to this issue of property tax, which is now a great deal of truth in the air. Of course, we have to take the reservation that Mr Zyskowicz is uncertain as to which row, barn or shed he has now been dealing with who knows, and may have been so dim and dark that it has been unclear who he has been dealing with. But this is indeed the case that the paragraph that was here thought to be compensated for was not at all right even in the original proposal, and it was one of the many reasons why we were opposed to this compulsory increase in property tax here. Of course, the main reason — or the first for two important reasons — was that housing costs in the capital region, which were already being robbed, would have become even more impossible. Employment and growth would have become very difficult here in Finland's growth area, and rents would have risen. But also, as Mr Hoskone, for example, strongly testified, the treatment of housing that loses value in sparsely populated areas would have been unreasonable. I would like to remind you that, at the time, there was still some sense in this area of property tax when it was aimed at obtaining some kind of return, but now we have a law of this kind before us which, in the interests of certainty, raises these ceilings in a way that no municipality will use or need. This is unnecessary legislation, which should be left unregulated solely for the sake of a bit of the norm. There's nothing to do with it. It does not receive any euro. It is simply a waste of time and effort for people in this Chamber who have better things to do in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u95	Mr President! To begin with, Mrs Zyskowicz, when she describes the government's policy of shifting the focus from taxation of labour to other taxes, does not seem to mention that, at the same time, the government can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances, the taxation of the most well-off pharmacies, the taxation of holders of large forest holdings. There is money to lighten it, and then when there comes a very small person, a person with a lower income, then taxes will be tightened, as with this proposal, for example, and that would have been the case, for example, with the increase in property tax, which, fortunately, has now been cancelled. President! As far as the ceiling on property tax is concerned, before I come to this law, I would like to say that Mr Zyskowicz was also wondering about it earlier: Mr Harakka described this problem quite well above, that if and when the government quite rightly gave up this increase in the lower limit or forced increase, then the fact that I no longer understand why it is necessary to regulate and amend this law, because this kind of increase does not really lead to anything, it will not do anything, and it will certainly not help any of the municipalities as such, because at the moment we are very far away from the upper limits. That is why I, too, would say in the name of this standard bite that it would have made sense to reject the whole law. But, President-in-Office, I would like to draw my attention now to what I think is quite a good consensus in this Chamber, at least in the debates: It would be very wise now, in the context of this law, for the committee to add a statement or a call from someone else, for the government to look for ways to encourage people to choose more environmentally friendly forms of heating and to develop a carrot for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u96	Mr President! To begin with, I must say that the social democrats I know have not previously considered the concept of'required Swedish' to be justified, but I am sure that, from today on, you will take that as well. In this regard, Mr Viitanen raised the issue of the role of a small person, and I am surprised that it is in this proposal that what the Social Democrats have often called for, that is, that the higher tithes of incomes are more affected. However, I do not think they are the small people that Mrs Viitanen is talking about, because it is these households in the upper income categories that live in considerably lower income categories, those small people, in larger dwellings and more often in detached houses. As for the statement as to whether I know the status of small pensioners, when my own mother is a 72-year-old minor pensioner of a large family, over 30 years as a housewife, there is no big retirement celebration. So my answer is, yes, I do know each other personally. And he still has an old detached house where these same problems are common to small people in this regard. And yet, Viitanen, when one of his sons, seven children, has gone into politics over all of it, there is much to endure for one man, the little man.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u97	Mr President! After all, the government’s line in taxation has been to reduce the overall tax rate and to reduce the tax burden on labour. Now that much has been discussed here about this property taxation, the aim of this increase in property tax, as has been well stated, was to support the economy and the local economy and strengthen the income base, and the OECD, among other things, has pointed out and even urged Finland to increase taxes on real estate and, accordingly, to reduce the tax burden on labour. But now it really turns out that profits have come as a surprise and that there is no need to increase these taxes, and nobody wants tax increases now, if that is not necessary. When we were wondering where that surprise return came from, I wish it had partly come from the fact that we have a lot of real estate stock that is not in any register. It has been the concern of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and many people that we have several hundred thousand, even millions, in the municipality without getting money from these buildings that are missing from the registers, and the inventory of these buildings is the kind of exercise that I hope the municipalities will do more. Also, the revision of the tax values of real estate, which is now partly under way, is an important work, and I think that we should really invest in this now, that the ground floor and the values of buildings are right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u98	Mr President! This debate has, in particular, come from Mrs Zyskowicz's excellent contributions to this whole line of tax policy, and it is clear that a sensible tax policy is something that rewards growth and employment, and in this respect work should be taxed as little as possible. It's a long-term idea. Well, then, of course, as far as the tax policy of this government is concerned, the question will inevitably arise as to whether or not this reduction in the inheritance tax on the large millions of inheritances represents work. What work is being done to reduce the taxation of large inheritances? I cannot in any way think of how it would have an impact on employment in any direction, even in the direction of lawyers. It is merely a transfer of income for those who are doing very well, and so it can be said that it actually maintains a high level of taxation in terms of employment. The same applies to the large — note. the additional tax reduction on large forest holdings, which was also organised by this government. And, of course, for someone who has followed politics for longer, it comes to mind that perhaps government parties have agreed among themselves some interests to those close to themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u103	Mr President! Indeed, I shall return to this general line of taxation. This government has already significantly reduced income tax at the beginning of the parliamentary term. That's a good thing. It has gained some employment in this country, at least it has contributed to it. Damage taxes have been increased, such as tobacco tax. That is the right direction in itself, but this increase in the tax on heating fuels will not be counted in the same caste as that on harmful taxation. Yes, living is necessary, especially here in cold Finland. But I would like to return quickly, briefly, to the intention of raising the lower threshold for real estate taxation, on which there has been a lot of talk here that it would have provided municipalities with more money of EUR 25 million, which would then have compensated for the reduction in early childhood education fees for its part. Well, I still do not understand the logic behind this motion. If the thresholds had been raised, it would undeniably have forced municipalities to increase their property tax. More than half of the municipalities in Finland would have been forced to do so. But where would that extra money come from? The Coalition Party is also an economic liberal party, and Mr Outi Mäkelä has just pointed out in his speech that tax increases are not a good thing; they should not be pursued in general. But the municipalities still have, and will have, this corrected proposal, at least the same margin of manoeuvre, and there is more. They can raise that property tax if they wish, if they absolutely need more money, but now they do not have to, when this proposal was corrected. On the other hand, if the lower limit had been raised, more than half of the municipalities would indeed have been forced to raise taxes, and that would by no means have been good and not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u104	Mr President! Today, the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance and also the Committee on Finance have shown the ability to take decisions that are not in line with the government's proposal, and I think that is a healthy thing in itself, that there are situations where it is better to correct government proposals in Parliament when one finds that, for one reason or another, they are not the best possible. Well, I shall now return to this motion which we are now discussing. I do think it would be rather desirable if this were to go to the Committee on Finance now, and if this is not going to the famous tax section, then it would be quite reasonable to include a statement in which the whole Parliament would demonstrate that it genuinely understands the concerns of these low-income people, including those living in their own homes but not just in their own houses, but also in many blocks of flats, and that the government should be required to submit proposals to support the transition to renewable energies in the form of heating. This would perhaps be such an example, which the Finnish people would very much thank, and for those who are now suffering these tax increases, which no one is known to love here, even if they are worth it, would be shown that their life conditions are understood, and would be such a carrot coin, which has already been used either through a household allowance or through a special subsidy. I will stay and see the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli, whom I very much appreciate, whether he would take a catch here that the committee would have a little room for manoeuvre when the report is being drawn up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u105	Mr President! I'm gonna put a little spoon in the soup. — If we are talking about real estate tax, even though this is not really what we should be talking about, it is true that real estate tax affects the people of sparsely populated rural areas most unfairly. It used to be a street bill, and now we're paying real estate tax, but we don't have street lights, we don't take care of you. At night the moon shines, and during the day the sun shines, and that's all we get. And then, when we're talking about energy policy in general, don't put this peat on, ladies and gentlemen. It may still be decades before Finland needs the security of supply that someone was talking about here. Let's make sure the peat is always there in the back pocket. It is also known that, according to new studies, peat has a very good mold tolerance, that can be patched up in buildings, made of building boards and packages and everything like this. This is a whole new dimension in the use of peat. I hope it will not be put on, as has been said from many mouths here, that peat should not be used under any circumstances. It may be the time that we still need it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u106	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u107	Mr President! In the Government's proposal, it is proposed that the law on the amendment of the Student Aid Act and certain related laws be amended to include the Student Aid Act, the Act on customer fees for early childhood education, the Military Assistance Act and the Act on general housing allowance. The laws are intended to enter into force mainly on 1. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. The Government proposal contributes to the implementation of the mediating theme of the mid-term review of the Government Programme. In order to improve the income of students who care for a child, it is proposed to increase the amount of EUR 75 as guardian of a minor child receiving a study grant. The increase would be per guardian, so that it could be obtained by both parents or other guardians who care for the child who receive the study grant. The guardian of a child would mean the guardians under the Act on the custody of the child and the right of access. Since the purpose of the care-sharing breed is to improve the livelihood of those caring for the child, it would not be taken into account as income in housing allowance, military assistance or in the provision of early childhood education fees or care allowance for home care or private care allowance. The student taking care of the child would increase the student's study grant by 30 per cent and would be EUR 325 28 cents per month. This increase would compensate for the cut in higher education funding that entered into force at the beginning of August, as well as the tightening of the needs test for housing support for family students. An estimated 19,000 student grant recipients would receive the care-sharing race, which would increase the cost of study grants by an estimated EUR 10 million per year. The proposal also proposes to take into account changes in current training needs and the specific characteristics of educational institutions in the terms of the extension of the full-time study allowance period and the support months of the academic year. It is also proposed to simplify the conditions for extending the maximum period of study aid for a university degree. The extension of the period of support would require the student to demonstrate that his or her studies have been delayed due to an illness that has significantly contributed to the progress of his or her studies or for other particularly serious reasons. The extension of the period of support would be limited to a maximum of 9 months, but the duration of the required studies would not be limited to one academic year. The proposed amendment would thus contribute to completing studies with financial aid, despite the fact that they have been prolonged. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u108	Mr President! The goal of the Finnish student movement as well as of the Left Alliance has been to receive the care-sharing breed for a long time. Until now, Finland has been the only Nordic country in which students in custody status have not been taken into account in any way in the student support system. In Finland, as the Minister said, there are 19,000 students with children, and up to now they have actually had to cope with student support, housing allowance and child support. An increase in the number of guardians is therefore an absolutely welcome structural change to the student support system. The sad thing is, however, that the livelihood of families with children who are studying despite the care-sharing rate will not necessarily be better than it was when this government started its work in 2015. First of all, like other students, family students are subjected to a huge government cut in student money. Depending on the starting point of the studies, this will therefore also cut the student student allowance for the family by some EUR 53-86 per month. The status of families with children also deteriorated when other students were transferred to the general housing allowance. This is because the calculation formula for housing allowance for family students was changed. Student families with children were already covered by general housing allowance earlier. For family students, this meant that the average amount of housing allowance fell by EUR 27 per month. Therefore, the EUR 75 carer increase now proposed by the government is not, on average, sufficient to compensate for the cuts in the income of family students. In spite of the dependency rate, the government cuts have led to a loss of income of between EUR 8 and 38 per month, which is a lot of money for a low-income student. So the government must not be hating this breed of guardianship, even though it is a welcome structural change. It is still impossible to understand how representatives of the government parties can stand behind such an economic policy. Why did the representatives of the government parties not have the backbone to announce even before the parliamentary elections that you will target cuts on the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns? A total of 112 million were cut out of the student grant, and this additional funding, which is now allocated through the care-sharing breed, is 10 million. Poverty in families with children is a serious problem in Finland, and financial distress in student families will continue despite this. The decisions taken by the government have also led to young people being in debt at a record rate. According to recently published data, students now have more student loans than any previous generation of students. In addition to this, the indebtedness rate of students is currently record-breaking. The government has justified cuts in student income by not leaving debt to future generations. At the same time, however, the government's own actions mean that young people are in record debt even before starting their careers. Increasing the loan focus of student support threatens equality in education. If a loan of tens of thousands of euros is needed to obtain a university degree, the threshold will increase, and this threshold risks increasing, especially for young people from low-income families. We are already in a situation in Finland where higher education is inherited. This development should be addressed and the equality of education improved, but unfortunately the policy of this government has been in the wrong direction all along.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u109	Madam President! When talking about students, Congressman Andersson used the expression that they are the lowest incomes in Finland. This may be true in a word, but it must be borne in mind that when students study, they are investing above all in themselves, even though society benefits from it. As students study, their employment forecasts improve considerably, as is known when looking at the unemployment situation of people with different levels of study. Similarly, when students study, their income is significantly improved, they end up in better paid jobs. So I think it is a little corny to compare students with the lowest incomes in this country who are genuinely in big trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u110	Mr President! Young adults are among the lowest-income groups in Finland, and it is estimated that this is precisely because the level of student support has been so low, as it still is for these young students,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u115	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's speech revealed the values of the government in its cuts to the student's livelihood. The government forces students to live in practice with loan money and justifies the fact that education is an investment in the future, as Mrs Zyskowicz has just said. Unfortunately, this will lead to an ever worse development of class society and the inheritance of education. It is a society that we Greens and many other representatives in this House do not support, because if we consider, for example, higher education professions in Finland, there are very important constructive professions for the future of the nation, such as a kindergarten teacher, a librarian, many other key low-paid and often female sectors in the public sector where these people who have received higher education work for their entire career, with a monthly salary of around EUR 2500.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u116	Now I won't admit it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u141	Mr President! It is true that when society is in debt and has financial difficulties, then public spending is generally cut, that is clear now. However, when you look at the overall picture in the situation of students in Finland, the situation is still good. As we have heard in many speeches, every young person in Finland has the opportunity to study no matter how far they want to go. Then these minor cuts, which have been made, are of course painful, but it has been the spirit of this time when Finland is still in debt at the moment. At the moment, Finland is still in debt, 3 billion in next year's budget is debt-taking, which is something we must also take into account. Unendingly, we cannot accept debt because it is a loan from our children, these young people who are currently studying. Do not imagine that we would have such a friend in that top bank vault that would give us unlimited money. One day, when the interest goes up, we will be in such a mess that has never been seen before. This is a reality, and this must be taken into account. The important thing is that students study and also get summer jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u142	Mr President! It is strange how the structural reforms that have been said here, which have been expected for a very long time, sound like hypocrisy on that side. Representative My corner made a good speech and raised these issues, including housing allowance reform, which is very important. On the other hand, this increase in guardianship, which we are talking about, is a very big thing, and it supports those families with children who need and deserve this kind of support. After all, the care-sharing breed would receive some 20,000 students who care for children who receive student financial aid, and with the reform, these family students will have a genuine opportunity to focus on that particular study and reduce the pressure to earn income and the drop-out of studies due to work. It's exactly the kind of support that hits the right target.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u143	Mr President! Once again, which is the main problem in the policy of this government, particularly from the point of view of low-income students, family students. Their financial position is weaker than it was when this government started its work because the EUR 75 carer increase does not compensate for the cuts you have made to the livelihoods of these same family students who first left EUR 86 per month in the course of the student allowance cut and for whom the average housing allowance weakened by EUR 27 per month when all other students were transferred to the housing allowance. This is the problem, and it sounds to me that the representatives of the government parties do not really know what the overall situation is with these family students. I would also like to reiterate that even for non-family students, on average, these changes mean that their financial position is weaker than before this government started.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u144	Mr President! I'm tired of talking in this room about piety. If I were to talk about it, I would have gone to the priestly work, as my father hoped, but I am in this hall, not on a spiritual occasion. What is important to note is, in itself, what Mr Lindtman quite rightly said. I do not deny that six out of ten students are experiencing difficulties in their living standards and coping with daily expenses. I have no doubt. But, on the other hand, the fact has been true already in the previous government, and I am sure even in the previous government, that, for example, the biggest cities in the capital region, where housing costs are quite high, have not actually been able to cope with the study aid. Not then, not now, and that's a fact. Of course, we need to work together to find solutions to this, but so far many people have not been able to cope with this study aid. That is why you have had to take out a student loan, which, however, must be taken into account that it has the state guarantee, it has favourable conditions, it is in itself profitable to take out a loan. In that sense, I wonder that so little of it has been used in Finland after all, and many researchers have also wondered, knowing that these conditions are, however, quite advantageous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u145	At this point, I would like to give the following answers to the representatives of Niinistö, Lindtman and Zyskowicz, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u146	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz can appreciate the fact that he pointed out before the elections that he felt that student aid could be cut, but his party, the then president and the current President, Mr Orpo, promised not to be cut off from students and not to be cut off from education. You made a promise that you and your other government partners have broken since then. The big change in this regime has been that the low incomes and basic security in general have been briskly cut, poverty has been increased by the government's own political decisions, increased income differentials, but also particularly cut from the future. The position of young age groups in different comparisons, both in the labour market and in income, has been consistently weakened in recent years, and this is a serious development that differentiates Finland and weakens our prospects if those young people, from the time of early childhood education, who are most in need of support, do not receive it for education when group sizes have been increased and the right to early childhood education has been cut, and student aid is now being cut so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u147	Mr President! Mr Elo is right: it was already difficult to get along with student aid, especially in the area of expensive housing. But what are you doing? You cut more from the students: one quarter off, 86 euros off per student, and in addition to other cuts. Now it's even harder to get along. I am prepared to discuss how these can be made easier, but, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, it takes more than fine words to do so. I thought Congressman Hoskonen called this surgery a small operation. So a quarter of the student aid out, and Hoskonen said, "These little cuts." I don't think a quarter of the students out is a minor surgery. It's a big operation. And Mr Zyskowicz, the level of education in Finland: We are staying from our rival countries. The level of education should be re-emerged. I ask you: are you saying that the cuts in student aid now seen have no impact on equality of opportunity? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u148	Mr President! When this debate starts from the fact that students are the lowest-income students in this country, what kind of study grant system should there be in this country that students should not be the lowest-income students in the country? That's insane. Of course, they will be the lowest income in the country if this is assessed literally. Then here's to take out a student loan. What's wrong with that? I proved here that when a student is studying, he invests in himself: his employment forecast improves, his earnings forecast improves. His position is temporary. Is it so wrong to take out a state-subsidised student loan that the State is still making easier to repay? As regards equality of opportunity: It is an extremely important issue, and that is why Finland has free education, which is why Finland has the world's most generous student support system. Professor Uusitalo's working group showed that these changes in priorities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u149	Next, Minister Terho, 2 minutes, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u150	Mr President! On this point, when I have to leave, I would like to thank you for this very stimulating debate and note that the proposal before us did not give rise to any criticism, but was welcomed by everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u151	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u152	Mr President! Indeed, the guardian increase in student money is a long-awaited and needed reform. It affects some 19,000 students and, of course, their children in Finland. In this respect, the government can be thanked. At the same time, however, as the debate has just shown, it is worth recalling everything else that the government has done to Finnish education policy since its pre-election education promise: EUR 87 per month has been cut for university students, i.e. more than what is now being compensated for, has been reduced for months of support and has been made more loan-oriented, not to mention the historic major cuts in education in general, which fall into the second stage for example, and threaten genuinely to paralyse the reform of secondary vocational education. I am very concerned about how Finnish vocational education and training in the midst of all these cuts will succeed. Equality in education and equal access to education for people have also been jeopardised. Study support should enable full-time learning and enough to live at even some level. No one should be forced to live on a loan. Thus, a good part of the solution for the care-sharing breed itself will not save this whole, and the net income of students has decreased and decreased. In our own alternative budget, we Greens are proposing corrections to the study aid which would compensate for these changes made by the government. The method of implementation can be chosen either to compensate for the cuts made to higher education students as such or to make the student aid more even so that students in upper secondary education also benefit better than at present. This increase in the guardianship of the student grant is a few points of light in an otherwise very uncomfortable Finnish education policy. I hope that the government will remember that there is only one sensible path to Finland's growth and future prospects and that this is an investment in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u153	Mr President! This government's proposal for the guardianship of student support may well be commended. As has been well pointed out in the previous speeches, this is indeed one of the few points of light that have now been shown here on the subject of student social security. But that does not eliminate the fact that when this is then tied to this larger entity, it is the students who will suffer most of all during this government’s life savings decisions. For example, when we look at the studies that have now been carried out on the distribution of income, for example, in this autumn, it is quite surprising that it has emerged from there that students are the most affected. Having listened to the previous debate in this Chamber, I guess this was no one’s goal, but for some strange reason this has been the case, and this government would have a place to sharpen itself. There is, of course, the fact that this cut in student money, EUR 86, and then these changes in housing allowance, which some students improve the situation with, will further weaken the situation, have an overall effect that the income actually available to students will fall. This does not remove the fact that students still have access to student loans, and that is a good thing. I've always encouraged every student to use a student loan, its terms and conditions are perfectly smart. But there's no point in talking here about no cuts being made to the students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u157	Mr President! It hasn't been a couple of years to get in the front, so I had to come and see what this hall looked like after the renovation from here. I would see that this is a rather long-term issue when we look at the government's attitude towards student status and education in the wider sense. Indeed, if we look at the government's economic policy, it has gone through short-term economic discipline, cutting the budget in the short term, taking precedence over content and future contributions, so that even stupid cuts have been made just because we wanted the numbers to look like them. Cutting education and early childhood education and weakening the status of students have certainly been the worst of these mistakes for Finland’s future, because the scale is only so shockingly large. In addition, of course, the fact that basic human security has also been interfered with and the poverty of the most vulnerable people has been increased and the situation of the sick people reduced by reducing compensation, and all this too has been wrong. The overall savings from these amounts have been so small that they could not have done so by cutting back on, for example, environmentally harmful subsidies and a slightly more moderate economic policy. This is the big picture in the background. If we are now assessing this bill today, it is good that the guardian raise comes, but, as has been pointed out in the debate, the financial situation of family students, on average, as a result of government decisions, has deteriorated over the last couple of years. Many talk about monthly losses of more than EUR 100 because, first of all, EUR 86 per month has been cut from university students and many lose some tens of euros on average in the housing allowance change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u162	All right, looks like there's a little need for a little debatation again. We're gonna take a short debat for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u163	Mr President! There has been quite a lot of discussion here about who are the losers and winners in these changes in student support and also in the transition to this general housing allowance. It is good to remind you that student organisations strongly supported the transition to general housing allowance because it is a fairer system than this previous housing allowance. It is fairer in terms of the fact that, for example, now that you are living, you can work more. In the summer, it is not necessary to increase the allowance for the housing allowance. So this new system will become more flexible. This is very good. But it is also good to remind you that there is constant talk that student money has been cut: Yes, but especially for low-income students and high-rent students, the amount of support will increase. So this is where the students are also recorded according to income levels,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u164	Mr President! I have not had the opportunity to follow the debate all the time, but at the time it has been possible, it seems to me too little that the fact that students are indisputably deprived of their livelihood by tens, even a hundred euros, means that more and more people are then doing secular work alongside their studies. And since we already have a long graduation period, it only keeps it at the same level as it should be reduced. And even this price tag is something for society and employment. That is why I consider this policy of exploitation of the government in relation to students to be wrong, because it is not in the interests of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u165	Mr President! To the extent that Mr Niinistö criticised the cuts in education, I think he is on the right track and, fortunately, the government has been able to change the direction of policy in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u169	Mr President! I would like to reiterate once again why this change is problematic, especially from the point of view of family students, when reference is made here repeatedly to this general housing allowance for transfer: the family students were already covered by the general housing allowance. The transfer of other students to the general housing allowance weakened the financial position of family students due to changes in the conditions for granting the grant. In addition, this allowance cut was also applied to family students. As a result of all this, even after the separation of custody, the income of family students is about EUR 40 per month lower than it was when this government started operating. That if anything reflects the value choices of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u170	Mr President! Representative Niinistö did not remember to mention, for example, the state participation cuts he participated in through his party in the previous government. After all, those billion - grade central government cuts were direct cuts in basic municipal services, basic education, upper secondary school education — all the basic work we are trying to get our children on the path to learning. Nor did this debate bring up the many major reforms and reforms that have been attempted. They have also been tried by previous governments, but unfortunately, if you think, then they focused on, for example, the attempt to get small upper secondary schools into larger units, and the size of the structural packages was actually larger than that proposed by this government. But, above all, this government has also had reforms and reforms: that is the case with the guardianship rate, that is the case with the general housing allowance and that is the case with vocational education and training, and I do not deny that the balancing measures have also been taken with regard to the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u171	Mr President! It must also be said that this increase in guardianship is a step in the right direction, and it now places some of these previous government measures in place. But I would still be interfering with the fact that, here on many occasions, government parties give the impression that, after these changes in study social benefits, the lowest-income students would now have benefited most from this. When we look at these various studies, such as these income distribution calculations, it is clearly stated that in the lowest income deciles it is the low income students who have been the biggest sufferers. When you have listened to those speeches before when you were in evasive spaces, it was always the government parties who wanted to say that that is why we are now going to do the separation of custody or change this housing subsidy system so that the people with low incomes will benefit. When we look at the results, we see that it is the lowest-income students who have suffered from this. As far as this larger whole is concerned, we'll probably have time for it then.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u172	Mr President! There are now quite a few different target groups already raised and who is suffering and who is not, but it is good to remind, for example, family students that they have finally been restored to this parental increase, which is precisely a much better model compared to, for example, when we had this child allowance in the past. Now it has been said that it has been removed — well, it did not help those on low incomes. Those who did not have much tax revenue did little to help. This parental increase has now been fully targeted specifically at student families and especially at those on low incomes. It's a very important raise. Then we must also remember the reduction in early childhood education fees for families with children, and all the poorest people will be eliminated: some 7,000 more families will now be covered by free early childhood education with the latest government policies. These are targeted at these very low income families of children. It is good to remember these in their entirety. But in all these changes that have been made with this student allowance and the general housing allowance, there is also the fact that the low-income have won,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u173	Now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u174	Mr President! Once again, because I have noticed that there is a need for it in this debate: in the case of family students, as has been said here, after the decisions taken by the government, their livelihood is about EUR 40 per month lower than it was when this government started operating. Although I am in favour, for example, of reducing early childhood education fees, it should also be noted that the lowest-income families were very likely already in the zero-payment category, i.e. they do not necessarily benefit from the changes that are now being made with regard to early childhood education fees. Then, on a more general level, as we have also said on several occasions in these debates: It is true that there are students who have benefited financially from the transfer to the general housing allowance. But when you look at the average figures, the average benefit of transferring to the general housing allowance has been EUR 59 per month, and that too is less than this cut in the student grant. So yes, they are more of an exception than the rule of these students who would have benefited, for example, several hundred euros a month. Then, as far as educational equality is concerned: I feel that Mr Zyskowicz still did not properly answer the questions as to whether he estimates that increasing the focus on student loans will have an impact on educational equality. For example, in this student support report by Roope Uusitalo, he states only that, when looking at students already in higher education, there is no scientific evidence that students from a low income background would avoid taking out a student loan more often than those from a well-earned background. I think this is entirely logical at the point where students are already studying. But what he does not comment on in that report is precisely this threshold to apply to higher education. How to pay for this training
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u176	Mr President! According to Kela, however, 110,000 students now receive more housing allowance than before, 110,000 students, i.e. the majority of these students receive more housing allowance than before. And yes, for us, the most important thing is the poorest students of all. We are not talking about the average, we are talking about where the scarce resources can be allocated, and the government did make a choice of values, that the money must be allocated to the most vulnerable students, to the poorest students of all, but obviously the opposition is not for the poor in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u179	At this point in the debate, we reserve the floor using the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u180	Mr President! This discussion on the separation of custody breed shows at its worst how we talk about each other past. The cold fact is that, in fact, even in this issue of housing allowance, where does the representative come from? My corner just told me well, it has helped those students who are in the most difficult economic situation. When something is being helped in this society, we must always start there with the most vulnerable, that is clear. It's part of the same chain. Ville Niinistö spoke here almost in such a way that people must have shed tears from their eyes to wipe out how well he has done — 1.4 billion cuts when he was a minister. Have they done the right thing? $1,400 million. You might want to remember that when you leave a guy's eye to dig a stick, you might want to see that beam in his own eye. Another thing: Now that the economy has started to develop in a positive direction, it creates a genuine opportunity for young people to have more summer jobs than it did during the sharpest recession. That situation has changed quite the opposite, even when we went to Tornio during the summer meeting of the Economic Committee, it was stated at the Tornio Steel Factory that they had taken 400, whether there were as many as 700 young people working at the factory. 700 I remember that figure was a huge number of people for summer jobs, and that shows that for these young people this strengthening of the economy is a thousand times more important than the rise of a few euros in aid. The job they've got there is very valuable. Similarly, improvements in local government finances: Last year, local government finances generated a surplus of EUR 400 million, while after the last parliamentary term, the municipalities in Finland were broadly at the rave and many municipalities were going bankrupt, or they could not go bankrupt, but in financial difficulties. This shows that it is important to restore the economy. Because if we yell at the details and criticize the guy without seeing the whole thing, we're cheating on our voters, and that's not a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u182	Mr President! That is why we are now making these changes and reforms, both in education and in society, that it is important for Finland to get back on its feet. And it is through the creation of new jobs that students get the hope that it is worth studying. There are jobs in Finland to be employed in, they are being created in the whole country. Once we have a solution to this, we have created that how the workforce also moves. For example, we have a very large number of jobs open in northern Finland, and we hope that students and new graduates will find them now and also move genuinely in Finland to find jobs. But then, in connection with the income of the students themselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u185	Mr President! It is great that the government is firm in its belief that these various changes have made the daily lives of the most low-income students explicitly easier. When you look at these studies, what has been done on this matter, for example, last time Nordea's economist Kärkkäinen went through these income distribution effects very extensively and he clearly concluded that the most low-income students here have now lost out. Now it would be hoped that, when it is said of the government that this has not, of course, happened, then give us the facts and then we will have a discussion about them. As soon as you have a report that really shows that your speeches are correct, we can return to this debate. As long as the facts are not in place in this debate, this is a little bit like this, and it would be worth looking at these studies, which have been carried out on a very large scale. On the whole, it is good to remember that after all these changes, if I remember correctly, the average income level of a family student will be reduced by EUR 40 per month, and I think that this information has been confirmed by the student movement. So, in that regard too, it is good to stick to the truth that is always hoped for here. To this end, I would like to say what I said earlier that it would like the committee to consider the question which arose in these remarks by the authors of the opinions, that, now that this increase in guardianship has been tied to custody, should it have been bound to that obligation of maintenance after all? Everyone understands that there is a little difference here, and this is what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the National Pensions Institute put forward. It would be good for the committee to go over this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u186	Mr President! I have to admit that I am not going to believe my ears when I listen to these speeches from the representatives of the government parties here. In other words, it is claimed that the government encourages students to become family members even during their studies by making changes which thus undermine the livelihood of family students as a whole as a result of the cuts made during this term of government. Then the representatives of the government parties still claim to be for the poor Finns, when I personally do not come up with any poor or low-income groups in this country from which this government would not have cut during this reign — not one. Even the transfer of students to the general housing allowance was financed by cutting all other recipients of housing allowance, i.e. those other low incomes. That is the overall picture of the policy of this government. And then, while this change is justified by the fact that the focus is now being shifted for students of the lowest income groups in Finland, the focus is being transferred within this tenth to the lowest income decile. Do you think that this is a socially just policy, cutting out all of the most low-income Finns as a whole and then making one small evasive move, for which you say that the focus for the lowest-income students has now been shifted to the poorest of all? That's enough for you after this reign?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u187	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I won't talk long, but just in case, I'll be right here in the toilet. — I believe that the criticism of education savings by the opposition throughout the parliamentary term is understandable and justified. In other words, once we have made significant savings in government spending, we have had to target too large a cut in education. This path of cutbacks has already been completed and it has now been possible to reverse the trend and some money will be added to education, as is evident from the third additional budget that has been allocated today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u194	Mr Andersson's name was mentioned several times that it would be reasonable for him to receive a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u195	Mr President! I will reply briefly to Mr Zyskowicz's comments and questions: What, then, should the student allowance or the student support system be like? I think that the aim should be to get along with it when you want to study full-time. For a long time in Finland, one of the key reasons for the length of study periods has been the employment of students. And the work is done because the student allowance has been at an inadequate level, which means that it has not been able to get along when you are studying full-time. As a long-term objective, I am also in favour of introducing basic income for students. Why, then, is it essential for society to take care of this? Our concern is precisely that the threshold to apply for higher education will increase for low-income students if the student loan rate is increased, which means that studies will also be partly paid for in Finland. That is also what it means when the share of student loans is increased, i.e. it increases the threshold for these students,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u196	We will return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u197	Mr President! Here I am going to go over these facts, and more facts will come when we get accurate calculations of students in different income groups. Then we can continue this debate further. These previous studies and studies, which have now been produced by various experts, have not all taken into account the actual effects, have not all been included in them. For example, for these student families, not all of the changes in expenditure and income associated with them have been taken into account, and this too is a good thing to remember when looking at these criteria from those calculations. But here's the conversation we're going to get back to. So the winner in this combination of student support changes typically is a low - income student who lives alone. For him, the replacement of the housing allowance — i.e. EUR minus 201 lost in practice with the system — means an increase of EUR 310 per month. In other words, this compensates for the cuts made with most of the student aid. Housing allowance is paid throughout the year when the housing allowance was only received from the study grant months, i.e. up to 9 months per year. In addition, an increase in the amount of student loans will further improve the income if you decide to raise it. But, on average and for the majority of people, this concrete financial support from the state during studies, which comes to the account, will rise. And if you still want to raise that loan on top of it, then this is the plus on top of it and lessen the need to work. So there's a better chance of major learning in the future. So, what about these low-income students who pay high housing costs in particular? For these students, the general housing allowance is at best considerably higher than the housing allowance for the student allowance, and this difference is really enough to compensate for the cuts in the student allowance for most of it. In most cases, financial subsidies are slightly higher and the maximum increase in the student loan is on top of them. The cut in the student grant will reduce income by between EUR 0 and EUR 85 per person. The change in housing subsidies does not materially affect, as student families of children are already covered by housing allowance. In connection with the change, the student grant became income affecting housing allowance, resulting in a decrease in the amount of housing allowance from EUR 0 to EUR 100 per month, on average approximately EUR 30 per month. The provider's increase compensates most of the losses in the benefits. The maintenance allowance does not affect housing allowance, military assistance, early childhood education fees, home care allowance and private care support, so it will benefit the guardians as a whole. And here in particular it is good to take into account the reductions in early childhood education fees and then the new families that come under free early childhood education. Who will lose in this change? The combined effect of changes is often loss-making for university students and students with a reasonable income or if they are guaranteed. In the past, housing allowance was granted automatically. This automation is now disappearing, and this will be income-dependent, which is quite fair. The increase in the amount of the student loan replaces almost all income lost in financial aid, and this is always voluntary, of course. For these students, the student support system becomes more loan-oriented with changes, i.e. those who already have a lot of their own income will have a major impact on support under the general housing allowance. For university students, changes depend much on the form and cost of living. Persons who reasonably earn wages may lose housing subsidies, and when they have a cut in the study grant, i.e. between EUR 50 and EUR 85 minus, they end up losing out in monetary subsidies. However, the increase in the student loan provides an opportunity to compensate for the losses. However, for many university students, the amount of support will increase, especially when income is low and housing is expensive. This all reflects the fact that the student support system is precisely becoming fairer. If someone has their own income, or in their own family or household, the income of the spouse is so much higher that they can jointly assume more financial responsibility, is it not right that we should distribute the available state aid to those who do not have such support because of their own family circle or their own small wages? I think this is a very fair change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u198	Mr President! There has been a great deal of discussion about student loans in this whole area and also in this area. After all, we have had an active part of the student support system and it is voluntary and students can take it if they wish. Unfortunately, however, we have a situation in Finland where too few students seize this opportunity for loans, given that we have a state-guaranteed system, especially in these times when interest rates are very low, so it is reasonably affordable money for the student. And there is a point here that if we wanted to increase the income of students and the government has now cut student money, which will then force more students to raise the loan, we should consider how to make this student loan even more attractive. After all, in other Nordic countries there is a system whereby student loans are taken directly from the State Student Loan Fund, so that there is no longer a need to fear it if you are not employed or if you cannot pay off your own student loan in the future, and when it can be made more socially just and its repayment can be tied to employment and so on. And it would probably be worth considering — even in Finland, it seems that the trend is increasingly moving towards increasing student borrowing — how to make this student loan more attractive to students, and one option here would be to see how other Nordic countries have done it. They have built a student loan on the basis of a state student loan fund, which would make it completely safe to raise student loans for each student.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u199	Mr President! I do not deny at all the many difficult decisions that this government has taken when it is cutting, and I am sure no one will deny the unfortunate and many decisions that the previous government has taken when it is cutting off — in general, when it comes to joint tasks, it is necessary to ensure that the resources are sufficient, within the framework of the existing needs and with the framework conditions with which we are with them. But when savings have been made, it has also been tried to do something more profound, some kind of structural change, that at a time when the time is better — and in fact the time has already started to turn, so that the employment rate will rise, so that unemployment will decrease — of course it will all rain on a large scale into a nation’s lurch and will also be in the interests of students. But I would like to say once again about this general housing allowance that, yes, it was the line that it was intended to target those who most need it, and yes, it includes the fact that, then, some of the recipients of housing allowance, the students, it has decreased. However, in any case, the general housing allowance increases by more than 100,000 students, and these are students who are living alone, low incomes, and who pay high rents, that is, the students who have most of all needed the grants. And yes, I think it's also important that even though the student grant has been cut... Students are always in a very difficult situation because they are on low incomes, there is no way out of it. It is not nice to raise a loan, but when there is simply no money, the loan money is better than having to be completely without it. But it is good that our system is still based on support: that we have housing allowance, that we have student money, and that we have a guardian raise that is hopefully permanently embedded in that system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u200	Mr President! Representative My corner is quite right in saying that an increase in guardianship is welcome and a good structural change in student support. I fully agree with that, because this means that the next time we have a government with a social conscience, it will be possible, for example, to increase the level of this breed of custody so that the livelihood of even family students will be improved as a result of the decisions taken by the government, so this will then be put on the agenda of the next government. As far as the government's economic policy as a whole is concerned, I would like to repeat once again the explanations made of the decisions of the previous government on how they have affected the livelihoods of Finns in different income categories compared to what has been done during this government term: during the previous government, the disposable incomes of the most low-income Finns increased and the income differentials decreased despite the fact that the government adjusted more than what the Sipilä government is doing at the moment. This government will adjust less but will do so in a way that increases income inequality, and as a result, most of the spending savings are directly targeted at the livelihoods of the lowest-income Finns. And yes, this will cause some kind of brain short-circuit when you listen to this debate here in the Chamber today: This government is trying to act as a defender of the poor after major cuts have been made to the livelihoods of the most low-income Finns. Frankly, I can't think of any low-income population groups that this government hasn't cut off. It is true, as Mr Zyskowicz said, that the biggest cut in the individual benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u201	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u202	Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Law on Free Cultural Work in such a way as to facilitate the integration of activities carried out within the framework of liberal cultural work. In addition, the law would be amended in the case of training for disabled people in a way that would increase its share of the state. These are worthy proposals. No fees would be charged to students in so far as the education has been accepted in the student integration plan. The proposals would improve the whole of integration education in Finland. There's an order for this. Liberal civilised work is quite free according to its name, and, for example, local and regional variations in the provision of liberal civilised work are great. The services of liberal education contribute to the vitality of the regions, to the diverse activities of people, to lifelong learning and creativity — good everyday life. Although liberal education does not lead to a degree, it has a central place as part of our education system. Liberal education also contributes to strengthening people’s activity and participation. When talking about the integration of immigrants, it is essential that language training, for example, is available through as many paths as possible. The wider use of liberal education as a tool for integration is justified. Next, it is worth preparing best practices to be replicated on the whole of Finland's free cultural work, so that we can act as effectively as possible. Mr President! Free culture plays a very important role in the lives of many people. It inspires, it inspires hope, it brings new ideas. When we talk about immigrants and integration activities that come to Finland, we need all the hope we have to offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u203	Mr President! I welcome the fact that, in the model of education in the literacy of immigrants, a central government contribution of 100 per cent to education organised by the institution's administrator is granted to the administrator of the folk high school, the study centre, the adult education centre and the summer university, and to the student's integration plan. At the very least, this will avoid talking about the wrong kind of education and support for false education. Students could not be charged tuition fees to the extent that the education has been accepted in the student integration plan. The aim of the proposal is to create a training model for the literacy of immigrants, which will take advantage of the flexibility and diversity of education in liberal education and the characteristics of different types of educational institution. The new training model, based on the proposals of this working group on education and training for immigrants in liberal education, aims to diversify the study opportunities for literacy and to help accelerate immigrants' access to education and employment. This is exactly what we should aim for those immigrants who are allowed to study and live in Finland. I think it's a good show.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u204	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying the most important thing: this is a good government proposal. After all, it proposes to amend the law on free civilised work. The administrator of a folk high school, study centre, adult education centre or summer university would be granted 100 per cent of the central government's share in education organised by an institution's administrator and approved in the student integration plan. After all, the situation is progressing for an immigrant by making this initial assessment at the TE Office for an unemployed job seeker, in this case for an immigrant, and then making this integration plan. When I myself am, perhaps now I can say this, the growth of the liberal education work, when I myself have attended the folk high school, and I know the folk high school field very well, having been the principal of the folk high school and the metal training centre Murika for ten years, when I went through a lot of folk colleges in different contexts, I am very happy and satisfied, because it is precisely the folk college, which has this flexibility and diversity built in, which is at best suitable for individual and cooperative studies, and I might well think that it is best suited to the educational, study, study and study community of immigrants. When I went through this law, it has also been taken into account since such flexible study paths, such as part-time studies and the like. The bill also knows the concept of functional study and approaches this issue about things like this, which I understand so that it also carries out a certain type of work study and participation in it, which now the folk high schools have very diverse activities. That's the good part, too. Mr President! I will then be able to take a closer look at this matter myself in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, but this at this stage looks very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u205	Mr President! The importance of free cultural work in the rise of our people's level of civilisation has now been well highlighted in this debate. It has been very important and will probably continue to be so. According to this Government’s proposal, the main training task for the administrator of a folk high school for people with disabilities would in future be to grant a State contribution of up to 80% instead of the current 50%. In this respect, the government's proposal is well-founded and would improve the ability of people with disabilities to participate in education and training in folk high schools. This is also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's proposal. This would also make it possible for people with disabilities to study in much smaller educational groups and better teaching tools or teaching equipment for them. A little more thought will then be given to the second paragraph of the proposal, which would allow 100% state funding to be allocated to education organised by a folk college, a study centre, an adult education centre or a summer university approved in the integration plan of immigrants, within the limits of the budget allocated to the state budget. In this respect, it would therefore not be possible for the educational institution to charge student fees or the need to cover the missing share of the contribution, as will continue to be the case, for example, with regard to the training of people with disabilities, which is still difficult to include in the bill. In the name of equality, it could therefore be justified that at least some degree of ownership should also be maintained in relation to integration training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u206	Mr President! I listened carefully to Mr Savio's speech. I've come to feel and see that he's talking a lot around here. It is an interesting question now, for example, of this 100 % state aid and aid, and I am not going to go there and compare it with this state aid for people with severe disabilities. I personally see, however, that there is a fundamental issue of education and similarity. But this was a good point from Mr Savilo, and that is why this debate on referrals and lunch is now taking place here, and I am pleased to say that Mr Saviha is a new member of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and then, with the help of experts, we will tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u207	Mr President! To that extent, I would like to continue that, although we are talking here about resources for the integration of immigrants, the Finns of Finland would also note that integration is exactly what the Finns of Finland are talking about, which should be promoted in Finland. I would assume that if these figures are revised and the state shares are reviewed and we want to put the various parties on a single line here, then the right solution is probably not to reduce the proportion of immigrants, in other words to bring in the costs that would probably be paid for some integration money or whatever it would be in practice. In other words, I would like to ask the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, in this case, to consider whether there should then be an increase in the share of the state in the courses of people with disabilities, in order to reflect on this support for immigrant training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u208	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u209	Mr President! Let's be brief. In this regard, the Government proposes that the minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, such as sickness, maternity, parental and paternity allowances, be increased by EUR 23 per month. The increase would also apply to rehabilitation allowance, and the purpose of the increase is to reduce the need for last-place income support. The minimum amount would increase from just under EUR 600 per month to EUR 616. Another important and good thing is that in the case of hospice at the child’s home, special care allowance can be paid to both parents. Now special care allowance is paid to only one caring parent. This change aims to enable both parents to be present, to participate in care and to make a living. The cost implications here are rather small. This is a very warm hand extension for those in these hospice situations. And it might be said that hospice treatment at home is also likened to hospice treatment at a hospital other than special medical care, such as a service center. Thirdly, I welcome the fact that the retention period for entrepreneurs is now being reduced to one day of illness. At the moment, it was one day of sickness and three days of illness. This brings entrepreneurs to the same line with employees who are paid from the very first day, the day of sickness. Entrepreneurs insured under the Entrepreneur's Pensions Act would finance the additional costs of the proposed amendment themselves. The initial estimate is that the additional cost of the change to the health insurance scheme would be around EUR 7 million per year. The proposal creates a need for an increase in the contribution of entrepreneurs [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u210	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u211	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the penal provisions of the Vehicle Tax Act, the Fuel Fee Act and the Vehicle Act in such a way as to abolish criminal measures where an act which is punishable may also result in an additional tax on vehicle tax imposed as an administrative sanction. An additional tax would therefore be the only sanction for such an act. A provision would also be included in the Motor Vehicle Tax Act which would allow vehicle tax control to be carried out by means of a technical means. This government proposal is excellent and hopefully goes all the way to the finish line. On 15 November 2015, the possibility of removing the vehicle from service without the return of registration plates was extended to all motorised vehicles. Electronic services have facilitated the reporting of decommissioned traffic. At the moment, according to my information, the system has been operating in traffic control and elsewhere. However, removing registration plates from the vehicle does not remove the possibility that the vehicle cannot continue to drive. In order to avoid the use of a vehicle which has been decommissioned in the transport sector, an additional administrative penalty was introduced for vehicle taxation. When traffic control meets an unregistered or decommissioned vehicle under vehicle tax, The Finnish Transport Safety Agency has imposed an additional vehicle tax on the taxable person. Under current law, a person who carries a vehicle for which a vehicle tax has not been due must be fined for a vehicle tax infringement. Similarly, the owner or holder of the vehicle who has handed over such a vehicle for carriage shall be condemned. I believe that this has been a workable solution, although it does not in any way prevent you from driving a vehicle. The aim of the Government proposal is to enable, among other things, the automation of vehicle tax control. Control can be automated and enhanced by using the automatic traffic control cameras of the police and registration plate readers. The aim must be for the mobile surveillance authority's system to automatically send information to the Finnish Transport Safety Agency on a vehicle that has been removed from traffic. I know that this is already partly possible. This will free up the resources of the supervisory authorities for other tasks and allow for more extensive automation of the processing of control data. I believe that this can even be achieved as a whole if lessons are learnt from countries where technology is already advanced. A good example of these is Norway, which is ahead of Finland in many areas, especially in the field of automatic traffic control. We no longer have to invent the bike ourselves, because it is already invented in Norway, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u212	The 15th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 8/2017 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-17-ps-105.u213	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 16th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Education and Culture, on the basis of the SIVM 8/2017 vp report, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Framework Convention and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
