ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 21/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 8 December 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u2	Mr President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 2 to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u3	Mr President! I support Mr Östman's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u4	With the support of Päivi Räsänen, Peter Östman has proposed that the annexed tax table be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 22/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter was put on the table at this plenary session on 8 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u6	Mr President! After all, this bill is very important for the tens and hundreds of thousands of unemployed, and it also means quite a change of direction in our social policy thinking. We have already discussed this at the Friday sitting, Friday afternoon and also on Friday evening, and then there was a broad hope that it would be a good thing for the responsible ministers to be present when such an important proposal for the livelihood of the citizens is being discussed. And I'm glad that... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u19	Madam President! It is easy to support this whole speech by Mr Heinäluoma and also the fact that such a squatting law would not be adopted here. We had a very long debate in this Chamber on Friday evening, President. We were confused that the ministers responsible were not present. It is a good thing that they are now, and we will certainly hear more arguments. Let me be frank, I would have liked to have seen representatives of the government parties here arguing how they felt such a law could be adopted, but they did not see it. Three members of the coalition came in during the evening, but no defenders were found. I hope this means you have a bit of a bad conscience and it's a little bit of a knock. It is still possible to back down, to listen, among other things, to the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this law is not without problems. It is extraordinary, as Mr Heinäluoma described above, that we are creating a model — a completely new direction for the Nordic welfare society — in which, despite active search for the unemployed, unemployment benefit will be cut. I think it's outrageous. It is true, Mr President, that the money for the unemployed, every single euro, is important, and it will cause very serious problems if, once again, unemployment benefit is cut in this way and gnawed in addition to the changes that have been made. And yes, it is quite a fitting insight into this philosophy that the next thing will probably be done so that if you do not get well, the sickness allowance will be cut. The same logic, and I can't possibly understand it and I can't accept it. [Parliament :Asia! ] I have received a lot of citizen feedback on this, as I am sure we all have. I have spoken to the people who are destined for unemployment and to the experts who are actually involved in these matters of unemployment security, and this is considered totally unreasonable, and I have heard that even in committee it was not easy to find experts to support this law. So it would be reasonable for this Parliament, including the government parties in this Chamber, to listen to experts and feel a little hearted that this kind of legislation is not going to happen. President! It must be said that perhaps this represents the spirit that unfortunately exists in our society today and which, unfortunately, is also in the spirit of the government parties. This is an act of squatting on the unemployed, an ideological act of squatting on the unemployed. That's what I'm saying. I believe that this will reduce the way it is thought. Here last Thursday there was a long mid-term debate on inequality. It was felt in speeches throughout the hall as very unfair: society should not be discriminated against. On Thursday, we discussed this. The government parties felt that in the speeches, even in the strong ones, everything was fine. What happened? On Friday, government parties first cut pensions and then started to discuss this law on the misery and squatting of the unemployed. This is what happened. First they say everything's fine, and then they operate. Well, on Saturday, the chairman of the central parliamentary group made a public statement that inequality should be combated and that we still need to work for the disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u20	Mr President! This government has rightly been criticised for the fact that surgical decisions are being taken against the already disadvantaged people of all the hard people. The government has been prepared to use social funds to increase the disposable income of people with good income and working lives, but has cut back on those who already have the least of all: low-income pensioners, students and the unemployed. However, this proposal to reform the unemployment benefit system must be described as a bottom-up, even on the scale of this government. As has been said in previous speeches, in future the basic security of the unemployed can be reduced on the grounds that they are unemployed. The active model is called deeply misleading. This model has nothing to do with remuneration, and the problem with this model is, first of all, that it does not reward activity, only getting work. So you can send out any number of job applications and go to any number of job interviews, yet you will be cut unemployment benefit if you have not managed to get a job. You can spend any number of hours on voluntary activities, for example, but you will still be cut unemployment benefit if you have not managed to get a job trial place from anywhere. It is precisely for this reason that the model is so unfair and completely different from the measures generally referred to by active labour market policies or the Nordic model. In future, therefore, the unemployed will be punished on the basis of factors beyond their own control. If you live in a place of high unemployment, there may not be jobs that you can go to in order to avoid this unemployment benefit, and if the resources allocated to wage support and employment services are insufficient, or if they are being cut, as has also been done in this government, there may not be enough courses or places of paid employment to go in order to avoid this unemployment benefit. The model also treats the unemployed very unequally. The employment opportunities of all unemployed job seekers are not as good. The longer the unemployment continues, the more difficult it is to find employment, and the training background and work experience of an unemployed job seeker affect employment opportunities, as well as possible illnesses. Many localities simply do not have jobs in the same way as the capital region, and few unemployed job seekers have the opportunity to move here to a place where high housing costs are strictly necessary to avoid this cutter. The Left Alliance has proposed an increase in the protection component to EUR 500 in order to facilitate the reception of short-term works. Another way of genuinely promoting the active role of the unemployed would be to reform the system of sanctions for unemployment security. At present, fairs are automatically available for several months if you have not shown the required activity in job search. Instead of such a mechanical sanction system, which keeps people trapped in a income support trap, the system should be reformed so that the right to unemployment benefit is restored as soon as the unemployed person meets the conditions for receiving unemployment benefit. It would be a truly active system that would also dismantle incentive traps. Self-study of the unemployed should be facilitated and more resources allocated to pay support, so that services are also available to meet people's needs. Mr President! Unemployment is really hard when it comes to it. It easily affects one’s self - esteem, and prolonged unemployment makes many feel unsuccessful and frustrated. The last thing that Finnish unemployed people need is cutters such as this active model, which really do seem to be based on the government's view that there is a job for every unemployed job seeker if the unemployed would just bother to accept it. Rarely do you encounter legislative proposals that show that the government is so alienated from the reality in which hundreds of thousands of Finns live.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u21	Madam President! Here this government proposal has been severely criticised and developed with the most imaginative parallels to knock this out. There are many ways to activate the unemployed, and that is, of course, correct. One of the key ways is, of course, to reduce the tax burden on low-paid labour. In addition, we have a EUR 300 per month protection rate, i.e. the level of income does not yet reduce unemployment benefit. This EUR 300 contribution has led to thousands and tens of thousands of people who have been completely unemployed finding this sort of job job worth EUR 300, and that is a good thing. This is the same aim that thousands and tens of thousands of unemployed people should be activated and be able to find either active measures or, in practice, 18 hours of work in order to avoid this reduction. When we look at this in a few years' time, I am convinced that this has been quite a success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u22	Mr President! Indeed, this safeguard, to which Mr Zyskowicz refers, is a measure which rewards those who fail to do so, but does not punish them. In other words, the logic of this protective part is quite different from the model that the government is now proposing, which is also automatically punishing people who are active, who are seeking employment, but who may happen to live in a place where there are no job vacancies. In other words, if the government and Mrs Zyskowicz are of the opinion that this component of protection is a good approach and that in this way we want to encourage and activate unemployed job seekers, then I will indeed encourage the government to increase this component of protection, i.e. the already established practice, rather than to produce such models, which are widely criticised for not rewarding people and treating unemployed job seekers differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u24	Mr President! I was quite sure that, when Mr Zyskowicz asked for the floor, he would quote this position of the Constitutional Committee — since he has now returned to the Constitutional Committee again — and would support these reasonable proposals made by the Constitutional Committee that the State should at least take on an obligation to guarantee these active measures for workers, and not that if the State does not guarantee these measures and organise them, it will not help education or employment, then it will be cut off. This is a cruel system that you, Zyskowicz, are now driving. I also understand that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of this, although there will be difficulties at that point, but I do not understand that the Blue Ministers
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u25	Mr President! I am sure that Minister Lindström and the other government parties will also be here to justify this quite objectively. This is such a good show. It is now recalled in this debate that this does not weaken the economic value of unemployment security as a whole, but, in addition to this obligation to engage in activity, reduce the days at the beginning of the unemployment period. Representative Heinäluoma said that there has been a significant change in thinking here, and that is what we can be proud of in this government. Little by little, even in Finland, a change in thinking is being made in an activating direction, as we have had too common in recent years and for decades, that only care should be taken for income transfers, but since then there will be no contact with the unemployed. Now we bring these interviews and these activation models. After all, the main point here is that this will reduce the unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u26	Mr President! I really wish today the press were active and awake,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u30	Mr President! There is a big difference between the thinking of the government parties and the demarcations in this perspective. Our point of view is to give you the opportunity to make EUR 300 even if you are unemployed, and that is why you put the protective part there during the last parliamentary term. You are prepared to cut back on the safety of the unemployed if, despite the activity, the unemployed do not happen to get a job or training. This is a big difference that Mr Vartiainen seems to be proud of. I'd be ashamed of this model. In my opinion, this is a truly weak, miserable model that endangers the livelihoods of the unemployed, those people who are in the most vulnerable position in this society at the moment. Finland currently spends much less than Sweden and Denmark on wage support for active employment policy in kind, labour market policy. We should now invest in this situation, give people a chance to get a job, and that is the best thing in this situation. Minister Lindström, from the Vartiainen meeting, said that he was very proud of this model. What do you think of your friends there in Kuusankoski, unemployed, thinking about this situation, Minister Lindström?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u31	Mr President! However, this is a government proposal, not a presentation by individual ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who has asked for a reply will, in turn, receive one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u35	Madam President! There was so much noise, I couldn't even hear my own voice. But there is every reason to be and make noise about this. When it comes to encouraging the unemployed to work, activating them to work, if there is one job available for each of the ten unemployed, with what will you activate, encouraging the ten unemployed to work in that one job? Minister Lindström, you have experienced the misery and horror of being unemployed. You have said that you do not want the unemployed to ever blame this situation, but now this bill, this government proposal, in practice, makes the unemployed guilty of unemployment, even if they are active, seeking employment, trying to find it, as the vast majority do. Now it is a question of the government always being able to withdraw its proposal, and now you have the opportunity to show that the blue are not the turbulent party, but the party that stands behind its affairs. Are you going to go and pull this thing out of the House? Then you'll show me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u36	Mr President! Indeed, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am somewhat surprised by this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which very lightly ignores the statements made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There were several experts who were genuinely concerned that an individual unemployed person could not show that he did not receive an education service or work for reasons beyond his own control. This is very important for the legal protection of individuals. Now some people have the change in their minds that if some people are now victimized there, then nothing, it is huge and good, and I find it extremely worrying because fundamental rights are individual and we must ensure that everyone has basic security. Nor do I understand the idea here that there is a reward for not receiving punishment. I don't approve of it at all. It's good to activate people, but activation always means something positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u37	Mr President! The elimination of unemployment and poverty and the reduction of exclusion must be the top priority for every politician. However, the fact is that if poverty could be eradicated through unemployment and social security, Finland would have done so by now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u42	Mr President! This is actually not an active model. This is a passive model. Until now, we have thought that activity is the fact that the state offers either a job or an active labour policy measure, and if a person refuses to do so, it is quite right that there should be a degree of toughness. Our current Unemployment Protection Act and labour market policy conditions assume that people must actively seek employment in order to be able to receive unemployment benefit. That's not a new thing. But as a passive model, this is made by the whole way the government works. As far as labour market training is concerned, we can have funerals. It has been transferred into the so-called state aid system, and the financial criteria there actually oppress those people who would like unemployment or even one degree after having completed training. Support for the employment of organisations has been driven down and many other active actions have been taken. There are considerably fewer people in employment offices than, for example, in these countries of our control in Sweden and Denmark. This is what makes this passive. And, Mr Zyskowicz, the 300 euro free leg is suitable for them,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u43	Madam President! An important debate has been held here on employment services. At the moment, our main problem is the problem of matching labour and labour, and with this bill, the government is seeking to find ways of facilitating this problem. It is known that activation services and short-term employment are difficult to obtain. There are differences in the various parts of the country, but the committee also notes that these problems must be actively monitored and resolved so that we can get employment services in Finland that reduce unemployment and serve better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u44	Madam President! This was the subject of a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which I chair, and I personally agree with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this proposal should have been amended. The committee voted on this. This is a cold operating model. In this respect, responsibility is transferred to the unemployed and the unemployed are blamed. In its statement, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that this should be counterbalanced by active measures, education and so on. As Mr Filatov said, these have been cut and weakened, which means that access to these active measures is becoming weaker. That's why this is such a bad show. But I find this situation particularly problematic and dangerous because the position of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee was not taken into account here, i.e. the law was not agreed to change according to that position. This road is a dangerous road. The Constitutional Committee always evaluates
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u45	Mr President! I have once served in the worst unemployment municipality in Finland, during the worst recession as the head of the Employment Office. I say that Siberia taught, and I dare, against that background, to promise both ministers on the ground that you will receive a sign of parrots and public praise if you can be credible in demonstrating and telling us how this will activate the unemployed. This does not take into account the age of the unemployed, no education, no place of residence, whether you own a car or not, for example, whether you are in poor health. It does not take into account the labour market situation, the structure of the economy, the long distances, the availability of labour administration services in general, or even the existence of public transport. Because of all these problems, the active unemployed can also be punished. Now we must remember: what would be achieved by additional sanctions when an unemployed person can be denied unemployment benefit for an indefinite period if he is not available to the labour market?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u46	Madam President! What really makes the situation special is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs clearly stated how this law should be amended in order to be humane, reasonable from the point of view of the unemployed, but the representatives of the government parties in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not agree to this. We voted, and the opposition, of course, remained in a minority here. But it remains to be seen what happens when an unemployed person is cut unemployment security in a situation where, despite his own efforts, he has not found work or received services. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, if this unemployed person makes a complaint in this situation, what will happen? How is it possible to look at the law you have passed at different stages of court in such a situation, when the Constitutional Committee has already stated that such a law should not be enacted, which is inhumane and does not treat people who live across Finland equally under different circumstances?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u47	Madam President! Perhaps, however, we should take a closer look at what is truly the content of the law that fulfils the condition of activity. Normal going to work, going to part-time work, going to labour market training, experimenting with work, self-study or trying in such a way that 240 euros can be earned in 65 days, all fulfils the employment criterion. Should we consider whether this is a completely impossible obstacle to activity for those who meet those conditions? On the other hand, there are also those who do not have to fulfil the conditions: for example, if you receive another unemployment benefit, or because of illness, disability, if you have a family or family carer or have already applied for an unemployment pension. We should analyse whether these are completely impossible for an active condition. It is also linked to the fact that at all levels, whether earnings-related or basic daily allowance is paid,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u48	Mr President! It was said here that this will solve the problem of encounters. I think this is more about the problem of encounters. Instead of being punished, we need encounters. People who try to get out of barriers to employment need someone to help them. Now that at the same time officials have been taken, as it were, to make decisions there and to see who would be punished, whose benefit would be denied, the helpful face and hands taken away and people made to receive punishments. Another important point is that if, ladies and gentlemen, you are not concerned about the unemployed, then now be concerned about the people in your region. Regional inequality is increasing with this law. People are in an unequal position depending on where they live because of their unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u49	Mr President! The current situation in Finland is that we currently have a genuine shortage of labour in those regions where unemployment has been a long time, such as Kainuu, Lapland, Northern Ostrobothnia, in many areas where unemployment may have been a little too long with a number of concentration policies. Now that there is growth going on, export companies are doing well and there are also a lot of job vacancies on the public side, the biggest problem at the moment is that there is not enough labour. We have a genuine problem that our population has precisely run away from jobs, especially in the largest cities in Southern Finland. We also know this: we have had these various employment experiments. Among other things, in Paltamo, my municipality of residence, I chair the council so that it is a good experience to help the unemployed to find employment. The most important thing is the personal contact, the interviews have been a very good way. Thank you very much. The most important thing would be that we do not pass on the young people in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u50	Madam President! The weakest link in a human being is usually that you can't squat, but this government model is a squat model. This takes the unemployed to deep squat at their worst. We believe that this proposal should have been withdrawn completely, especially after the Constitutional Committee delivered its own opinion. It is therefore incredible that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is not taken into account. In my opinion, this is the kind of threshold that you, the good government, should consider and think about in that regard that what can really be done about this. This is quite incomprehensible that no matter how hard you try, you try to be active, you do everything you can, and yet your unemployment allowance can be cut if you have not received the job. Perhaps in the end, this proposal is intended to say straight away — here a representative said that we want to change our thinking — that you lazy, who are at home and you cannot find a job, it is your fault when you cannot find that job. This is how you want to activate. You want to change your thinking, you want to change your thinking, you want to think positive. Well, don't tell me you're going to yoga so your thinking changes. This model is incomprehensible. This should be pulled out. This is yet another performance among the many other performances that you have already withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u51	Madam President! This debate, which is now taking place in the light of day, proves that the table presentation made last Friday was justified. Last Friday we had the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the Government parties here, Mrs Zyskowicz, whom I acknowledge. He had the courage to come and defend this performance. Now that we are on the opposition side offering second hand to the government, it is very quiet, there are no defenders. Some of the speeches prepared in advance, yes, but not on this basic question. For the first time in the history of Finland, you are punishing people for unemployment by building a law that treats, as has already been said several times, very unequally unemployed people, depending on where they live. A representative from the city centre said this was a gift for the unemployed. In practice, this also focuses those unemployed people from remote regions to cities where there is still work or employment services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u52	Madam President! First of all, it is good to clarify that no one is being denied unemployment benefit in the form of toughness on the basis of this proposal, but that it will be reduced by around 4.5% over the next three months. [Heckling] Secondly, it is estimated that the proposal will increase employment by thousands of people, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has made a firm statement that this should be followed up. I would be happy to return to the debate with you in a few years' time, when we will see whether this has happened — as I believe — to thousands of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u53	Before Minister Mattila, representatives Viitanen, Hassi and Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u54	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, for example, the figures in Pirkanmaa indicate that there are around 27,000 unemployed and 4,000 job vacancies. This is telling the truth. And the truth is, as you yourself have just said, that unemployment benefit will be cut if, despite active measures, the unemployed cannot find a job. It is wrong, and this cannot be the case. President! Now that the ministers will be able to speak, I say now that here we shall see whose songs are being sung here, whether we are now going according to this co-operative squat idea, and others are singing in the background choir, while the co-operative baton is waving this ideological circus, which is currently under way in all government politics. I really hope, ladies and gentlemen of the blue ministers, that you will be wondering if you are seriously behind this clump of unemployed people. Is downtown for real, or are we going on Zyskowicz's and Vartiainen's terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u55	Mr President! I understand that one of the basic principles of the rule of law is that no one is punished for something that he cannot influence himself. This is exactly what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs refers to when the committee states that it is new if a person is to be sanctioned on an issue that he has not actually had a chance to influence. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed that services be provided to all those who need them, or that the unemployed be given the opportunity to show that they have done everything they can but have still not succeeded in either obtaining these services or in obtaining the necessary amount of job work. In the absence of this possibility, this is contrary to the general sense of law and, as I understand it, also to the fundamental principles of the rule of law, and I am not surprised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u56	Mr President! After all, this is an incomprehensible proposal that this model penalises an unemployed job seeker who has not managed to find employment. But a job seeker who has received a job no longer needs unemployment benefit! You are punishing those who fail to find a job, and, as has been said here, this puts people in a very unequal position, depending on the occupation, background or place of residence of a person. And when I read this statement from the Constitutional Committee, I really thought that the government was going to have to withdraw this proposal, but no. On the other hand, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the representatives of the government parties are crushing this motion. In my opinion, this is incomprehensible. If we look at Article 19 of the Constitution, it says that anyone who is unable to provide the security necessary for a decent life has the right to the necessary livelihood and care. Labour market support is part of the basic security of the unemployed and is now being cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u57	Minister Mattila, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u58	Madam President! This active model is based on a tripartite working group led by Government Secretary of State Martti Hetemäki in 2016, whose task was to draw up a joint proposal to increase employment and reduce the duration of unemployment, and indeed the employment target has been set at 10,000. In those respects, this has now been prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Thank you to the committees, firstly the report to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the opinions to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that, in addition to the methods of demonstrating the activity proposed in the government proposal, the activity can also be demonstrated by participating in other employment-enhancing services or activities in which the Employment and Economic Development Office would act as an organiser. This is precisely what I see as an addition, which has also been made after the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In other words, measures have been added after the opinion of the Constitutional Committee and these have expanded the range of services that Mr Jaskari has already mentioned, and I am sure that Minister Lindström will also tell us about TE services. What I also consider to be good here is the committee's proposal. This is good: "The Commission requires that the effects of the reform be carefully monitored and, if necessary, extended the means by which the conditions of activity can be met,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u63	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u64	Madam President! The government’s proposal is flagrantly unfair, demeaning, squatting, and attitudeal. I ask you, Minister Mattila: do you truly believe in this monitoring clause? Does monitoring eliminate the problems that this law brings?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u67	Mr President! It does now sound as though the government has now begun its hand-washing phase and is hiding behind these possible proposals for statements. That is what this is all about, listening to the Minister's reply. After all, the central question really is that, in general, when public authorities commit something, it also allows it to do so. If we have an obligation, then we will also give it a chance. In other words, before we can oblige people to do everything in their power to find employment, the public authorities must also give them the opportunity. Now that you look at what the government has done in this area, we have had fewer pay subsidies every year, for example, which offer these opportunities. That before, good government, you go to oblige the unemployed to do something, then now oblige the authorities to provide these services to the unemployed. That is the first thing that should be done at this stage so that we do not put people in such a unequal position as the government is now putting them in.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u68	Madam President! The most impressive speech would be if you kept a minute's silence. This is something quite inconceivably shocking, that how, then, can we truly convince ourselves, such as here the representatives of Zyskowicz, Jaskari, Vartiainen try to swear that this is good, this is genuine activity. I have to say, my values are so different in how people are inspired. Why, for example, has the government not put in place a bill to remove barriers to employment so that part-time workers in trade can accept small additional jobs without fear of losing their housing allowance? The obligations to provide additional work should be improved. Now the government is doing something I never thought this government would do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u69	Mr President! I can also say a few words about this when the Danish Bureau was here as a guest and Denmark is the country with the lowest inequality in the OECD countries, and Finland is the country with the second lowest. And how has Denmark achieved this? It has achieved it precisely through good employment management, where these interviews have played a very central role and, as has been said here, they are investing twice as much in active policy as we are, quite frankly, but they are paying 70% less passive support, as I recall. They have exactly the kind of activation system that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u72	Mr President! Congressman Satonen, I don't know which Danes he's met,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u76	Madam President! Now that Denmark has been mentioned, I do want to apologize to the Danes. Firstly, Denmark is a very different labour market area from Finland. There business trips are short, from one side of the country to the other side and everything between here and there. In addition, there are TE Offices, i.e. the group that provides various services, employment services and works for employment, 20 times the number in Finland, i.e. 20 times the number in Finland. Well, it's obvious that that group can do a lot of different things. The Danish model is very active, very supportive, very different from Finland, but it cannot even be compared to this activation model on a bad day. Danes, forgive me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u77	Madam President! I would still have liked to return to the original question of the opposition: do you feel that what fulfils the active condition is too big a matter for you when, for example, the active condition is met by being involved in self-study? Do you think that is far too big a question on that side? [ Requests for answers from the left] On the other hand, there would be the question of the Danish model again, that there is also the side of having an open labour market that operates differently. I hope that at some point we will also be able to make it easy to take up work and also easier to reduce, which means that there will be much more mobility than there is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u78	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has answered this question by Mr Jaskar. This proposal by the government is quite shockingly violating the rights of the unemployed, and that needs to change. Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz said that we already have active models here. Yes, there is a certain way in which we have legislation, but this government has cut off active money. From the beginning of this year, this government cut, if I remember correctly, 100 days of unemployment benefit for the unemployed. I find it terribly difficult to understand why this government wants to see the unemployed as lazy and inaccessible people who do not want to work. This is an incomprehensible policy. This leads to Finland’s development of inequality only becoming stronger and stronger as a result of your policy. I wonder how the blues and the downtown party could have been involved in this kind of thing. I can understand the consensus when I listen to these speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u79	Mr President! In the last couple of years, I've had a whole new kind of contact from the unemployed. They've come before, but now there's a lot of people who feel like they've done everything, tried everything, and still can't do it, still goes wrong. Yesterday I spoke on the phone with a man who asked me a question: ‘ Will you come up with a solution for my situation or will I shoot myself in the head? ’ The three of us spent 15 minutes on his support back and forth, and I was unable to give him the solution so that he could even reach the minimum income support level. The biggest problem with the activity of the unemployed is not laziness, but the biggest problem is that our system is so unpredictable and unfair that people cannot act rationally within it. Now this active model creates a new Sank-tioapparat on top of the already impossible system, and that is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u80	Mr President! The important thing, of course, is what is being decided here today, and I think that, in fact, a relatively small percentage of the people who decide on this have been unemployed themselves or in these recruitment situations where workers have been interviewed. I'm part of this last group. In my previous life, however, over the years, I have interviewed several hundred unemployed people. On this basis, I do not think that this government proposal is at all bad. There has been quite a dramatic talk here of violating the legal protection of the unemployed. "The penalty for the unemployed", these terms are used,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u81	Also representatives of Lehto, Gustafsson and Filatov and then Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u82	Madam President! You might think that the government's proposal for an active model has been prepared with EK smoke sauna boards. But when you look at the opinion of the EK, you are against this. The criticism is also given by all the workers' organisations, very much so. Yes, we are now squatting in a Finnish job, putting a slave in the position of being forced to go to a job, whatever it is and at any cost. And they're gonna throw more of that shit at me. In the news of the economy there is a headline in which the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said: "If there is a lack of knowledge, pay below the general wage level could be paid." So we'll keep squatting on the job. You don't get paid when you have to go to work for free. And what's more, we're gonna throw more dust at the job, put it on top of the stove when you think there's been a bill around here where it's proposed to give up the labour supply exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u83	Mr President! This record-breaking show by the government ran aground from Friday night to Friday night. [Department: Good, Kari! ] I have been working for myself for over 50 years, even as a Member of Parliament for quite a long time. I don't remember such a cowardly act. Seriously, I don't remember. And now that this situation in Denmark has been brought up, we are talking about figures: there are 15 to 20 unemployed workers per employee, that is, resources are from a whole other world. They must have created social democrats there, who have been strong for a long time and have made an active, genuine labour policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u84	Mr President! In both Denmark and Sweden, there are many times as many people in the service who help the unemployed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u89	Secretary Lindström, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u90	Madam President! Thank you for the active debate. I will start by answering Mrs Rinte when she asked me whether I know how the unemployed person in Kuusankoski feels. I can assure you, Mr Rinne, that I have received feedback on all the proposals I have been here to defend, even though I have not always liked them. And yes, I certainly know what that unemployed person thinks. That feedback comes to me right in the face, and that's a good thing. Such speeches have been made here, once again talking about the culpability of the unemployed, saying that this is a passive model and so on. If we start from the background, which is why this proposal is here in the first place: this is because, together with the social partners, we made no agreement, but the agreement that we have a list of ten points, and that is the first step, an active model. When it was presented, SAK opposed it and has resisted it from the beginning. I am fully aware of this. Nevertheless, good things were achieved for the unemployed, things that make the unemployed person’s daily life easier. For example, this week or at the latest next week, the rules of the zero-hour contract will come to Parliament. This was a package. This was a deal. And from the very beginning, it was also clear to the government that no raisins would be chosen from the bun. This model is now maybe the stone in the bun. [Left: Let's get it out of there!] — — — — It has been said that the measures taken by this list of ten are being taken and that we cannot pick up bad things and bring good things here. This has been decided by one government to promote these ten-list measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u94	Mr President! I understand that this issue is so difficult that no defender of this government proposal was found in the ministerial box on Friday and this would rather have been silenced to death. The good news is that now the ministers are here and we have answers here. It is difficult to understand this idea that unemployment benefit will be cut if the unemployed are unable to find work. The fact is that in this model, as unemployment is prolonged to full unemployment benefit, not only is active job search enough, but it must also lead to employment or participation in services. But we have different conditions in Finland, as has already been shown here. Employment is influenced by a number of factors: residence, age of the person, level of education or duration of unemployment, or even, as Mr Mustajärvi said, whether or not the unemployed have a car at their disposal. This model penalises those with lower employment opportunities more. Is it right, Minister Lindström, to force these people in this situation when conditions are in this long way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u95	Madam President! Instead of going behind explanations or packages, I would like an answer to just one question in the speeches from all the representatives and ministers of the government parties: is it right that the unemployed, every single morning trying to find a job, every single day fills in an application, every day going around the doors of the workplace asking if I could get to work for a while, or who actively monitors whether there are employment services, training or anything else in the local community, but all these efforts, all this activity — activity! — in spite of the failure to do so, to punish him and to cut his unemployment security, his security? Please answer this one at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u96	Madam President! I understand that the opposition here overdramatizes this issue and even competes with the fact that, as Minister Lindström said, who is the hardest to criticise this government proposal on the table, because it is quite unquestionable that there is also, as Minister Lindström has said, this element of impalement. No one's ever denied it. They said we need encounters, not encounters. I remember very well that when these interviews were planned in the government, they too on the left — I do not remember who, but some of you — were firmly opposed and considered to be a downgrade to the unemployed or to their dignity. And as far as this constitutional aspect is concerned, the Constitutional Committee, in its opinion, unanimously states that the draft law is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u97	Madam President! Yes, this law is a law that scratches the unemployed. There's no encouragement here. A job would be taken by an unemployed person if there was work available. Many unemployed people are seeking employment, applying for training, and even if they fail to receive them, this government proposal cuts and weakens the unemployment benefit of this person. The unemployed are already very difficult and scarce in their lives. It is truly unreasonable that today, today, you should produce such a proposal instead of introducing activating and genuinely encouraging measures, such as an increase in the element of protection that allows the unemployed to take up work, to bring proposals to improve social security, to suggest how small businesses could be better encouraged to employ. Pull out this inhumane proposal and bring better performances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u98	Madam Speaker! I asked for the floor, therefore, because this opinion of the Constitutional Committee has been quoted here quite rightly, and now Mr Zyskowicz here wanted to detract in a way from this opinion of the Constitutional Committee. I don't think that's true and it's not right. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the main problem with this draft government law is precisely that the unemployed are unable to influence whether or not they are getting a job or being able to take part in training, and in that way they will not be able to do so. This has been recorded unanimously, as Mrs Zyskowiczk knows, in this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a constitutional remark to be dealt with by the Committee on Budgets. In other words, it is a serious observation, and it is stated here that it is problematic from the point of view of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u99	Madam President! Now I would ask the chairman of the Constitutional Committee to be precise. I have not underestimated this statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have said the fact that you, Mr Lapintie, cannot change it here. The fact is that, according to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the Government’s proposal can be enacted in the order in which the ordinary law is enacted, i.e. the Government’s proposal is in accordance with the Finnish Constitution. This is reflected in the spirit of the committee's opinion, which the chairman of the committee subsequently explained cannot change. It is a different matter that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also contains the points that have rightly been cited here, and the points which are therefore not in the right direction, according to the parliamentary committee guide, it is also appropriate to comment on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that is what the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has just done. That is what I think we can agree on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u100	Madam President! This end result was in itself a good one from Mrs Zyskowicz, but I do not think it appropriate that, in view of the problems raised by experts following the consultations with experts, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs writes in its opinion the problems to which the relevant committee should draw attention, this is underestimated. It is precisely to say that something is problematic from the point of view of the Constitution that one cannot change by saying here in the Chamber or elsewhere that this is in accordance with the Constitution. The final result of the committee's opinion is, of course, as Mrs Zyskowicz rightly said, that this can be provided for under the ordinary legislative procedure. We agree on this. But with what seriousness the Committee on Budgets should always take on board the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I believe that its importance can never be emphasised enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u101	Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u102	Mr President! Let's go to the consensus, I understand. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the spirit of the opinion, states that the law can be enacted in the order in which ordinary law is adopted, unanimously. This means that the government's proposal, including Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, is in no way incompatible with the Constitution. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention in the text to the aspects that have been fully raised here in the speeches. It is at the discretion of the Committee on Budgets, in this case the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which it attaches great importance to these other aspects. The parliamentary committee guide states that it is appropriate that the constitutional aspects of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be taken into account and evaluated, and that is what the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has done. The position of the Constitutional Committee as a result is clear: the law does not conflict with the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u103	Mr President! It was a good thing that this statement by the Constitutional Committee became a debate. I myself have been there for a few years now, and I too have understood, as Mr Lapintie said, that these matters are important, because otherwise we would have a statement that only reads plus or minus — the plus can be dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure and the minus cannot be. Then we could leave these out altogether. Now Mr Zyskowicz, for example, gives the impression that these are just some sort of explanation and ritiratrampsa. Yes, there were very serious remarks here about this very fact that a person cannot escape this, even if he did everything he could to do it for reasons beyond his own control. I would have asked the Minister: how closely did you get into this, that could this have actually been added to force majeure? This is also a very long question: you do everything you can, you do not get those trainings and you still lose that money. That is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u104	Mr President! I too think, without going further into this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the points raised in it are very important. The first aspect is that everyone must be guaranteed effective access to measures to promote employment. Another aspect is that if a person does everything reasonably required of him, he will not be subject to a reduction in the benefit. As I understand it, this proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is actually partly withdrawn, and that is very good. Two other aspects: in the big picture, when you look at this situation, this proposal is not in any way dramatic and unreasonable, as has been claimed here about the opposition. The reduction is 4.65%, and without beinglittled at all the low level of unemployment benefit, I do not think this is unreasonable. However, I think we should bear in mind that, in the long term and in the short term, it is also in the interests of the unemployed, that we encourage activity rather than passivity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u105	Madam President! First of all, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in itself a good one, but, as I pointed out very well in my previous speech, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the opposition was precisely trying to point out that the current budget for these services for the unemployed is not sufficient. The opinion clearly states that the government has not increased the budget, which means that for the unemployed the services are not enough. It makes this law a savings law, such as the automatic cutting law, where there is no right or moderation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was right that this does not treat citizens equally and should be given serious attention, but the government parties in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not agree to it. As to whether this law is reasonable, consider now that the labour market support of the unemployed in Finland is currently 73 per cent of the minimum budget, and that is what the government is prepared to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u106	Mr President! The government is the government of change. The aim here is to look at new ways of working, and it was also well highlighted from 3000 to 30,000 by the employment services of Uusimaa — the change in the way they operate has provided these services and increased employment. In fact, this budget has provided additional funding of EUR 25 million for employment and economic development centres. In the same way, the Government has proposed and Parliament has approved the opening of studies and enterprise with unemployment benefit. So, at the moment, there are elements to how the unemployed can actively influence their own activities, and this is supported by the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u107	Mr President! This government's proposal in question makes the unemployed even poorer, and that is something that cannot be done by talking away from this proposal in any way. This is also a proposal that no citizen can understand — when there are contacts — this is so absurd or in some way incomprehensible that a government can actually be so cold that the unemployed are being made such a government proposal. This proposal has also received almost total disillusionment in committee work. It has already come up in this debate, and it seems rather strange that the government is still prepared to punish the unemployed for lack of work. Mr Government, there are seven times as many unemployed job seekers as there are job vacancies. If you think only of that number, how is such a presentation generally even born? This presentation is like the spirit that every unemployed person in the board thinks is so lazy to get a job that it is necessary to have this kind of passive activating law with its sanctions, so that they do it. Mr Government, Minister Lindström, I still have a little confidence in you, do something. You're gonna have to do this, too. There have been more of them during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u108	Mr President! This is where the opposition has been accused of being overly dramatic by the representatives of the government parties, but yes I would say that this dramatic tone in our speeches is directly linked to the citizens' feedback which the majority of the opposition has received from unemployed job seekers who really feel that this proposal is extremely unfair. And that is precisely what has been said in many speeches, i.e. the unemployed will not be able to influence the factors for which he may be punished as a result of this automatic cutter. When Mr Jaskari listed these various employment measures, which are included in this condition of activity, such as work experimentation, paid employment and self-employment, these are all services that the unemployed job seeker does not decide for himself, not even the self-employed study — it is not a subjective right. This has been suggested by some unemployed people, but such a system is not yet in Finland, but is at the discretion of the TE Office. This is the key problem here
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u109	It's pretty full! Representatives Mika Kari, Salonen and Mustajärvi before the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u110	Madam President! A lot of good speeches have now been heard here, on behalf and against, but I would like to return to that speech by Mr Hassi, which, in my opinion, is a good illustration of this point. We are now punishing a person, an individual who cannot influence what he is being punished for. If he happens to live outside the urban area or even in a city, such as Lahti, where the unemployment rate has moved between 15 and 18, or in an area where there are no employment services, this will be punished — the individual. I can't believe it. This is the background to the fact that, as you can see in this debate, this is a coalition project in a big jigsaw puzzle with zero-hour contracts,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u113	Mr President! I do not want to use any crayons now, because this issue is so important that I want it to be heard on the government side as well. In Finland, the decisions of the authorities are not based on arbitrariness. They are based on good governance, on a culture of good governance, on the fact that people themselves have the opportunity to be heard. And now there is no possibility of hearing about a person’s own affairs in this decision. So it is a matter of a situation in which a decision is essential to the livelihood of an unemployed job seeker — there is no opportunity to be heard and to explain the reasons and considerations that would affect this decision. Another important issue is these people in the disability pension queue. They are not subject to this decision. So now you should be on the disability pension line to avoid cutting your income security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u114	Mr President! I appreciate Minister Lindström for honestly acknowledging that this is a matter of necessity, as it is. But also in connection with PeV's statement: of course, man's ability to do what is expected of him should be viewed as the person's life situation and actual potential. When we talk about the Danish model, that is where the marching order is crucial. There is much more investment in tackling unemployment than is being done in Finland at the moment, and if the unemployed person is then inactive and does not work or go to education for reasons that are not acceptable — only then — the sanctions will come into effect. This is the marching order. And if you compare it with Denmark, for example, there have been periods when, in relation to GDP and unemployment rates, for example, eight times as many contributions have been spent on the employment of disabled people compared to what has been used in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u115	Then the ministers' speeches, two minutes from their seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u116	Madam President! First of all, when it has been said here many times that the government considers the unemployed to be lazy, I would like you to withdraw my name from that list. That is not true, it is not true. The unemployed is not lazy to me, but a citizen like us, anyone else. The issue of equality and equality must therefore be addressed. The current situation is not, in many respects, regionally equal, let alone demographically equal. Well, then it has been questioned whether the statement can be significant. Ladies and gentlemen, I do appreciate the statement made by Parliament by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This is good. This is good. This is good for further work. We need to improve our work. Then the question has been raised as to what the authority is doing in TE services. I also trust the Finnish authority. He is in charge of the task assigned to him by the expert organisation. Then, Mr Uotila, you asked and repeated that if you do not have a job, if you simply do not have a job. There are other services in this proposal too, aren't there? Sometimes when you don't have a job, you have to go to school. There are certainly many people who have had to do this, there are sector changers in different situations in the areas of restructuring. So there are other services besides looking for those job opportunities. Then, of course, measures to promote employment here over the years have been supported by the flowering government itself, and they have been done. I believe that last season there has been no opposition to the EUR 300 safeguard. At the moment, we are experiencing a basic income experiment which is about to come up with information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u117	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u118	Madam President! Thank you for the conversation. Thank you for the beating. We have earned this because, as I said, we have brought and defended this motion right here, even though, as I said, this work also involves defending unpleasant things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u121	Then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u122	Madam President! Now that the ministers are here and I have not just been able to speak on my question, I would have renewed the question to you. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very important. It is of exceptional importance in all matters compared to many other committees. That is why I would like to renew the question that relates to the content of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It required... — Excuse me, Mr Filatov, is it possible for me to put the questions to the ministers? — — — — It required the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to take account of the individual's situation when he was unable to influence whether he was receiving work or other active measures. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs called on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to take this into account in its own proposal. Among other things: In particular, Kela brought to us in the committee its own proposals on the subject, which it will have an impact on. This has been the case in the Committee on Legal Affairs a few years ago when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs brought to the attention of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which the Committee on Legal Affairs should have taken into account, but the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not take them into account and the motion then went as proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and this matter was then referred to the Court of Justice. This bill of the Committee on Legal Affairs changed in court and interpreted the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. How do you expect that this law will happen if we do not take account of the strict statement made by the Constitutional Committee and move forward in line with the government's proposal? If this matter is brought to court, what will happen in this law? I would like you to give me your own point of view on this. Do you have the opportunity to look at this issue from the point of view of the Constitution? This will give you a completely new dimension to the whole bill, because it will take account of the situation in each unemployed person's life on an individual basis. This will, of course, bring more governance to Kela and elsewhere, but then it will be fairer than the government's proposal now. Mr President! In this regard, it has to be said, unfortunately, that this government proposal is unfair, demeaning, squirming and attitudeal, as if unemployment were the own fault of the unemployed and the unemployed were lazy when they did not get the job, as has been said several times here today. In addition, the government treats unemployed people unequally, depending on where the unemployed live in Finland. There is no equal access to work and TE services throughout Finland, which means that the unemployed person must be treated in a grossly unequal way for reasons beyond his/her control. In addition, the key challenge and difficulty is the skills and training of the unemployed person. The well-educated are doing better, but the situation of people dependent on primary education is becoming even more difficult. In Finland, 613,000 people of working age depend on primary education alone. At the same time, we know that in a few years the share of primary jobs has fallen from 38% to 21%, as the share of higher education jobs has increased. In particular, the government proposal penalises unemployed people without training and those who are currently long-term unemployed and partially able to work. According to the active model proposed by the Government, the unemployed person must work five days in three months or in employment services in order to maintain unemployment security. If you do not find work or manage to get enough active measures from the TE administration, unemployment benefit will be cut by just under 5%. If work or active measures are not available despite hard-core efforts, the result is a reduction in income. The level of unemployment security is estimated every three months. It is technical and it cannot be considered, and that is what the Constitutional Committee has done. In practice, the introduction of an active model would be a direct cut from the long-term unemployed and part-time workers, and they could not complain about this either. The Government's proposal does not make any economic sense either, as the proposal transfers additional expenditure to other items. The Government itself estimates that this proposal will increase housing allowance expenditure by EUR 4 million and income support expenditure by EUR 10 million. This will lead to an increase in administrative bureaucracy and other expenditure. We know from many studies that when people move to income support, income support drives people into permanent poverty and makes it more difficult to find employment. The direction should be in the opposite direction, but even with this presentation, the government is again directing a large number of people into dependency on income support and poverty. This is inconceivable. Mr Lindström, I would like to ask you one more question here, because this affects both of us. In September 2017, we had 18,100 unemployed job seekers, 1380 job vacancies in the region. More than 90 per cent of these vacancies required training or work experience, less than 10 per cent did not require training. At that time it was mainly telephone sales or similar. This describes the fact that it is impossible for all of these more than 18,000 unemployed people in South-East Finland to find a job or get active services at the TE Office, even if they really want it and try to do it. They are simply not available. For this reason, it is also impossible for unemployed people in South-East Finland, Lappeenranta, Imatra, Kouvola, Kotka, Hamina to avoid unemployment benefit, no matter how hard they try. As a result of the government's decision, the majority of them will become less and less secure. The active model thus puts them in a corner and into an even greater economic and mental situation. Mr Lindström, what will you answer to our common South-East Finnish unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u123	We're not gonna start a new debut right after the last one. Let's get back to this a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u124	Mr President! Perhaps the main conclusion of the debate is that there is a great deal of difference between the parties. It could not be imagined that even the Social Democrats, hardly the Left Alliance, are making such a proposal. I agree with the assessment, which has been made that the trails do lead strongly towards the Coalition Party, and the aid parties in the Centre Party and the blues are now involved in this. I have to say, as such a sensitive emotional person, that it feels a little bad that the blue ministers are forced to stand up for a proposal which is hardly in the process of being accepted. Mr President! In my reply earlier, I thanked Mr Kari and the opposition, who had the eye and responsibility to call for this issue today, that is to say, it was postponed. I think it would have been a huge damage to democracy and democracy if this debate had been concluded at the late hours of Friday evening. I think that this debate has opened up our eyes here among colleagues, certainly also for the thousands of people, hopefully tens of thousands, who have followed this debate from different channels. I dare repeat this second key conclusion, which is very important to me personally, and it relates to the rule of law. When we think of the unemployed who are going into this situation — as far as this is progressing, for I still hope that this will be understood to pull the poies, but if this now comes into force — then the unemployed cannot actually affect it, and then there will be this kind of 5% unemployment benefit cut and weakening. Well, it's unreasonable. It is ugly, morally, ethically untenable, and once it has been established that there is not even a chance to be heard, this is an obscene, cowardly policy from the government, mainly towards the weakest. This was interesting, Mr Kiljunen, and thank you for saying on behalf of South-East Finland that there are 18,000 unemployed and 1380 job vacancies. For Pirkanmaa, the figures may not be quite as gloomy, but they are not much more. I think that in such places of structural unemployment, what now south-eastern Finland and especially Tampere are, the situation is just as difficult and unreasonable, and it can be said that the government cutter strikes thousands of unemployed in a merciless way if it is now voted through as such. During the debate, Mr Satonen also raised the Danish situation. I would now like to point out, once again, that, as regards Danish active labour policy, we can envy, in a way, the quality and effectiveness that Denmark has been able to create in terms of labour policy. Of course, there is little self-criticism in the various government periods, that we have not been able to recruit enough staff and employ the labour administration. But to be frank, even when the Social Democrats have tried to obtain these additional resources in the negotiations on the Government Programme, the bourgeois have beaten the leg that is not going to happen. Surely if the social democrats had been as powerful as it is in Sweden and, in the long term, in Denmark, the situation would be better. Mr President! I would like to conclude by protesting against the core idea of the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens. It is under the heading 'Active model is unequal': 'The big problem with the Active model is that the model puts unemployed job seekers in an unequal position. There are significant differences between regions as to whether even the shortest-term job is available or employment-friendly services are available. There are more than differences in employment opportunities for the unemployed than those related to their place of residence. The age, level of education and duration of unemployment also have an important impact on activity. The model penalises more those with less employment opportunities and access to services." So this government proposal must be rejected and we still hope that it will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u125	Mr President! That was where the previous speaker felt empathy for ministers now sitting in the box. I don't think you need to be a martyr here, but this proposal is about the government's value base, and it says, "If you fail, who will remain, or if you reject your value, what will remain?".. This is a value base issue. Mr President! Recently, it has been strongly advertised that every person should be allowed to squat. I'm sure you've seen this article. Yes, this performance does put the unemployed into a squat, a real deep squat. This is a squatting model, as I said in my previous speech. This model should have been pulled, the entire government proposal should have been withdrawn. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I also said it out loud, as we also proposed rejecting this proposal. The position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is so firm that it should have been taken into account with a special hearing ear, withdrawn the proposal and replaced a new, better model. Absolutely should have done that. This is a squat model, and this distinguishes people in Finland. Finland is a large, large country and there is no possibility of providing these employment services or finding work everywhere in Finland. It's a cold truth. Finland is a big country. Mr President! The so-called 'active model' proposed in the proposal means a reduction in benefits for the unemployed if there is not enough activity, and the Finns of Peru consider this problematic, starting with the fact that the proposal also states that it is very difficult to assess the impact of the proposed model on employment. There is also a contradiction in the section on the preparation of the proposal and the objectives of the proposal. Much of the commentators disagreed with the government’s proposal as to the means by which the active participation of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit should be supported. In particular, the opinions of non-governmental organisations highlighted the fact that among the beneficiaries of labour market support there are persons whose employment opportunities are not limited to the availability of jobs but whose ability to work and their employment opportunities may be affected, for example, by the long-term nature of unemployment, health-related issues and possible exclusion from the labour market. True Finns do not consider cuts related to unemployment security to be good. The measures now proposed have also failed in those cases where the unemployed cannot find work despite their activity. It is also necessary to consider issues such as the possibilities for employment in rural areas and how short-term employment relationships are linked to the proposed model. The preparation of the committee has also highlighted the right of every basic income guaranteed by the Constitution, including in the light of unemployment. This provision imposes an obligation on the legislator to guarantee every person in need of basic income protection subjective right to the security provided by the law for public authorities. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs justifies this obligation on the part of the public authorities in a broad sense, referring to the drafts of the reform of fundamental rights and to its earlier opinions. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs states: "As the unemployed, despite their efforts, for the various individual reasons mentioned above, may not necessarily be able to meet the legal requirement of activity, the proposal cannot be regarded as a constitutional problem. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consistently stressed that the refusal of benefits must be justified in relation to the types of employment promotion activities available and which can be attributed to the unemployed person. On the other hand, according to its arguments, the Government proposal currently being assessed is a ‘figure calculation rule’ without any individual consideration.’ And, among other things, these are precisely the arguments in which we believe that this proposal must be rejected. The government treats these people in an unreasonable way, and this proposal is unacceptable. We find it unreasonable that, despite your activeness and doing everything you can and indeed can rise out of that deep gap of unemployment and go looking for nothing and finding nothing, the detective will not find you, yet you will be punished. We'll punish you for not being able to make a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you have a heart, and I am sure you are thinking about things for the best, but it would certainly be desirable for the proposal to be withdrawn and perhaps even slightly more adapted in a more humane way, because in Finland's 100th year in particular people have earned humanity and that warmth and gentle hand, not squatting, not bullying, not being said lazy. It is the worst thing for an unemployed person, even in thoughts, to send such secret messages, silent messages that you are actually lazy when you can't find a job. We know it's a tragedy, it's a deep one, it's sad. We are all getting those messages, everyone is sure, as are the ministers in that box.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u126	Mr President! In the debatable speech, I went through some rather unpleasant memories of the recession of the 1990s. At the time, in Salla, where I was head of the Employment Office, unemployment was at its worst at 38 per cent. At that time I predicted publicly, and many people were surprised that in these regions, where unemployment is the worst, there could be a serious shortage of labour and, unfortunately, that forecast has already been partly fulfilled. If you look at Kolaria and Kittila, for example, who have previously been very weak employment communities throughout the time, there is at least a seasonal shortage of labour in both municipalities in the Tunturi-Lap region. And that is because employment policy in Finland through time has not gone by the terms of either regions or customers, but changes in employment policy have always been made on the terms of government, political decisions from top to bottom. Even the opposite has been done: for example, the duration of unemployment benefit has been increased and it has been said that it will activate the unemployed, and once the duration of unemployment benefit has been reduced, it has been said that it will activate the unemployed, and this has been said regardless of the labour market situation. This government solution is a very formal solution. It does not live in real time, there is no incentive, no prospects, no individuality. And when I said about that duration of unemployment benefit, this ideology, which has been practiced in Finland for a long time, not just for this government, has split up the number of unemployed people into many parts, and then there will be no united protest from the unemployed. Young people have been placed in an unequal position with regard to the duration of unemployment benefit, as have all those with limited work experience. Then sanctions have been imposed both at the beginning and at the end of the period of unemployment, and then the recipients of unemployment benefits have been divided into recipients of unemployment benefit and labour market support. Mr President! In view of the individual’s situation, how he can respond to these expectations set out in the government’s proposal, it is influenced by such basics as whether a person is unemployed, poorly educated, which is his place of residence, whether he is infirm — and infirm for very many reasons — what a person’s work history is, what is the availability of services, such as employment services, where the training units are and what forms of training are actually available. And yes, you have to remind the right side that quite a few things about these are any subjective rights. We must also take into account the current financial situation of the unemployed. I myself have seen that if a person is able to keep his own economy decent in any way, then such a person can actively act much better himself than an unemployed person who has been seriously exposed to the wall and has no prospects of the future. And then the situation in life, that too must be taken into account. In the past, when there were still independent employment offices at local level, the employment commissions were active, which were able to assess on the basis of local competence and knowledge whether these sanctions made sense. I have seen how the representatives of the workers' and employers' organisations together felt overturned the stupid decisions when they knew that there were very real reasons, which have not been mentioned in the Unemployment Protection Act but which are comparable reasons, and sanctions have been blocked. There is no such body now capable of using sound common sense. Then, on the hard part of sanctions: I simply do not understand what this weakening of unemployment security will do when, according to the current articles, unemployment benefit can be denied indefinitely if the person himself shows that he is not available to the labour market. Briefly, Mr President, on the Danish model: That's where the stakes always come before the sanctions. And if we talk about interviews, when the customer is really well faced, by the way that we go deep into his affairs and the customer gets the feeling that he has now been quoted, the interview is just as important a service as the employment budget. A person who feels that he is actually supported and not first punished will certainly become much more active.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u127	Mr President! This active model of unemployment security is part of a series of government measures aimed at improving employment. Improving employment, on the other hand, is the key to the fact that living as a government debt sometimes ends and that our welfare society remains something. This bill is estimated to bring from 5,000 to 12,000 new jobs. But, Mr President, perhaps the most important effect in this way is that it affects the attitudes of each of us. Work must always be sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u128	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u234	Secretary Mattila, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u421	Secretary Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u424	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Satonen for his overheating compliments. To quote Timo Jutila, this is the whole team's game, not one player.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u427	Madam President! This proposal for a statement, which is attached to this proposal, is handwashing. It is said that the effects of this law must be monitored, but this is always the case for everyone. The consequences, Madam President, are immediately hitting those active unemployed who are looking for a job, looking for a job, wanting to get a job. It seems to me that when you listen to this parliamentary debate, many people do not know the daily life that unemployed people have. Many do not seem to understand how humiliating it is to be unemployed, how humiliating it is to put one application after another, look for a job and not get it — it is a feeling that you are not necessarily able to control your own economy when the compensation is so low. Then, from many speeches, at least between the lines, unemployment was the fault of the unemployed person. And that's what this performance actually says. That unemployment is primarily the own fault of the unemployed, although the problem is that we do not have enough jobs. The very majority of the unemployed, screaming, would go to work the very next day if they had one, so this motion of lashes for the unemployed does not change anything about saying that we are following this and that the statements speak for it. Once again, I say that the government has the opportunity to withdraw the proposal from Parliament at any time. This is now an opportunity for the Ministers of Lindström and Mattila will show you that you have your own political will. You have told us that you have unemployment on your own or in the family, and you know how terrible that situation is. There is now a chance to show that blue people still have their own political will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u428	Madam President! The scope of this debate has quite fully covered this issue. In fact, this is an ideological choice that we are currently facing. I must say that when I myself have been through a lot of unemployment, I have sat for 500 days and sent hundreds of applications without getting a single answer, that I do not feel as an active measure that the hard work will then be punished. I can't see the equation between this activity right now. I am in favour of any activation measures that could encourage the job seeker to work: to go along with him, to help him, to think together about how to make even better applications, to be able to praise him enough that someone would even invite him to visit. But then, when it is punished for being really hardworking and day and night making these applications — many already receive them many times, oh, this is this guy again — then there is a problem with this government proposal. I understand that it takes a lot of humility to admit, but when this debate in this Chamber has clearly been such that the majority of representatives see and understand that this presentation did not go quite straight, it could be smart to pull it out, acknowledge its losses and bring something that would actually encourage the unemployed. I came from the unemployment card to this job, and I'm going back there, and I don't know what's gonna happen to me. Maybe I'll just fall into this trap that I'm going to vote on today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u429	Mr President! When it was said that this proposal has been widely discussed here, I actually feel that this has not been discussed very extensively. The possibility of a 4.6% cut has now been discussed here in a situation in which these active measures have not been brought up, but much less so in this debate it is precisely because this unemployment benefit is capable of training that it is able to start up business. And dignitaries: This is an impact assessment, however, to get around 10,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u432	The case shall be suspended. This plenary session will also be suspended and resumed at 9:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u433	We shall now resume today at 8.46 p.m. the adjourned session. A detailed examination of the 4th item of the order of business begins. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u434	Mr President! I propose that the first draft law be adopted as it stands, except for 6. Article 3a and 5a§ and Chapter 7, Chapter 5a§ deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u435	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. I'm screaming for a very good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u436	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has proposed that Chapter 6, Section 3a and 5a§ and 7. Chapter 5a§ deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u437	This plenary session will now be suspended due to the meeting of the Committee on Finance and will be resumed at 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u438	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 9:08 p.m. today. The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u439	Madam President! This government proposal is about raising a single-parent breed. The amendment was voted on last Friday, and the Finns of Peru suggested that the single parent increase would be even higher from this government proposal. But here I am going to present this objection, which relates to this matter, and at the same time I will make our proposal for a statement, which is to say that we are going to make a statement on this subject, which reads as follows: "It requires the government to ensure that the income of the parents Madam President! This proposal proposes an increase in the number of single-parent breeds. In the statement of income, child benefit is taken into account as income affecting the amount of income support. An increase in the level of the single parent-retirement pension would not affect disposable income in families receiving income support. The True Finns point out that child allowance cutbacks made in 2014 were evened out. From the point of view of the absolute value of income distribution and fair taxation, maintaining the child reduction at 2017 level in 2018 would be justified. The current provision on child allowance is provisionally in force from 2015 to 2017. Since there will be no child reduction in 2018, the proposed increases are not sufficient to improve the position of the target group. For that reason, too, we suggested that child allowance for a single parent’s child be increased by EUR 58 to 30 cents. But as I said, the section was voted on. Unfortunately, our presentation did not go through this time, so I will make this statement here so that in future, however, the single parents will be well cared for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u440	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the article on the amount of child allowance in the Child Welfare Act to increase the single parent increase of child benefit by EUR 4.75 per child, thereby increasing the single parent increase from EUR 48.55 to EUR 53.30 per month. This proposal is acceptable in itself, but the situation of single parents is in many ways more challenging than that of two parents and it is justified that they are entitled to higher child benefit. In single-parent families, the low income ratio is more than three times that of two-parent families. At the same time, however, it should be noted that improving the livelihood of single-parent households and, more generally, families with children would require much bigger changes, as has also been evident from the committee's consultations. In families receiving income support, the increase in the single-parent distribution rate would not even affect the disposable income. The abolition of the tax deduction for children also has a different effect from the increase and its negative impact in most single-parent households is greater than the increase that is now being proposed. Clearly, in order for a single parent race to have a genuine improvement in income, this increase should be greater than this one. It should also be borne in mind that child supplements have been changed several times in recent years. During the Sipilä government, the changes have been detrimental to the livelihood of families with children, with the exception of the single parent increase now presented. In the beginning of 2016, the indexation of the child benefit was abolished and in 2017 the child supplement levels were lowered by 0.91 per cent. At present, the real value of the average child benefit is 30% lower than in 1994. We believe that the deterioration in the level of child supplements should be immediately reversed and that child supplements should in future be increased according to the index. In addition, many other government decisions have made it difficult to make a living, especially for low - income families with children, and also for everyday life. Public services have been weakened and benefits and transfers have been cut. For example, subjective day care is restricted. According to a calculation made by the Parliamentary Information Service in September, the government's decisions have had an increasing impact on the poverty rate of persons under 18 years of age. The government has done the weakening one by one without an assessment of their overall impact. However, a good family policy and the promotion of children's rights would require a holistic approach. Mr President! That is why I would like to make two statements of objection 3 to the House for approval. The statements read as follows: "1.The Parliament requires the Board of Directors to consider the combined effects of the reforms it 2. Parliament requires that the government withdraws the impairments of child supplements made during its term of office and restores the indexation of child supplements."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u441	Madam Speaker! I support Mr Pekonen's well-founded proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u442	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mrs Juvose. Indeed, the reason for this is that after the vote, Parliament decided to raise this single parent increase in child benefit by EUR 4.75 per month. This decision to raise the single parent race was a step in the right direction, but in the opinion of the Finns-based society it was not enough, given that the government had already decided to waive the tax deduction on children, as has already been shown in previous speeches. This waiving of child allowance makes the purse of many single parents as much as EUR 400, which is a great deal for many single-parent families. Indeed, at the first reading of this law, we, the Finns of Peru, proposed a much larger increase of EUR 9.75 in this single parenting breed, but this fell in the vote, and that is why this statement by Mrs Juvose is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u443	Madam President! This is a good proposal and I wanted to take the floor because it was stated here that there has been nothing more than cuts in families with children. This is not the truth; the lowest care allowance is being increased, the minimum daily allowance is on the way, the entrepreneur's own day has been reduced and reduced, then this single parent increase is now coming, and the removal of early childhood education contributions from the lowest incomes has been made. There are many positive reforms, regardless of the difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u444	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u445	Mr President! The amendments tabled by the opposition to the law implementing this bill were voted in this Chamber last Friday, and unfortunately the representatives of the government parties were not then prepared to vote in favour of transitional solutions which would have better protected the voice and influence of the university community, which would also have been better in line with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee and also with the existing university law. Unfortunately, at the same time, this Tampere 3 project, which is in itself a positive reform and a positive cooperation project, is now becoming an example of the problems which university communities warned about when this new university law was adopted. The method chosen in Tampere also reflects the results of national evaluations of the university law adopted in 2009. It is crystallistic to say that the management of universities is satisfied with the new operating models, but otherwise the university community feels very broadly that the opportunities for influence within the university have deteriorated quite significantly, and it has also been shown that well-being at work has deteriorated quite significantly for the university community. Thus, these assessments have shown that the university community feels that the concentration of competence and decision-making has distanced the university community from the internal decision-making process of universities and has also exacerbated differences of opinion within universities. Community decision-making and internal democracy in higher education institutions have decreased significantly due, among other things, to the weak and unclear position of multi-member institutions. I believe that the restoration of democracy to higher education institutions and the improvement of the well-being of the university community are also, to the greatest extent, a science policy, and the correction of these shortcomings should be taken much more seriously. The fact that there is an appeal to improve practices within universities is not an adequate answer when there are clear legislative shortcomings behind the loss of these influences and therefore the legislation should be amended in this respect. For this reason, I shall make the following statements in response to the objection: "1.The Commission requires that the law of the University be amended to add to the tasks of the administrative bodies of a wide range 2. Parliament requires that the impact of extending the possibilities of teaching cooperation on staff be assessed during the planning, implementation and follow-up phase of the change."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u446	Mr President! Indeed, the university and scientific community has a lot of characteristics that lie at the heart of ensuring good research and scientific education, and one of these features we have had in the past, in fact, a decision-making model before other societies, an inclusive decision-making and administrative culture that has identified student representation, employee representation and within staff a number of groups such as professors, research and teaching staff and administrative staff. Now that this Tampere 3 project, which we absolutely all wanted to take forward in committee, we are dealing with, there was a great deal of pain during this new university law in terms of university democracy, and that has also been the pain in this process. The fundamental question raised by the committee, which we voted on in this Chamber last week, was how these transitional arrangements are to be made. However, I still find it incomprehensible and extremely regrettable that we did not form a government made up of current governments and that the principal was chosen not by the actual government but by a temporary government. It is quite unusual to choose a principal who, in a few months’ time, the actual government can, in principle, even terminate. Well, this vote has passed, but since these questions have been raised here, I support Mr Andersson's proposals for statements — certainly in the light of the fact that we in this committee were not able to deal with the whole problem, which relates to the role of strategy and management rules and consort, but it is obvious that these should be reviewed and looked at, and if this law had perhaps been a little clearer at this point, it would not have been possible to come to such a grey area, which was perhaps now where we were going to end up and, in part, in this preparation for Tampere 3. So, Mr President, I support these proposals for statements. After all, the second is obviously the role of the staff to ensure in this rather uncertain situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u447	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u448	Mr President, Talman! Regeringens förslag om språkförsöken är obefogat både utbildningspolitiskt och med tanke på hur man på basta jott kan utveckla tvåspråkigheten. Regeringens linje works mest vara att avveckla, inte utveckla. Styrkan i den finländska skolan har variantt ambitionen att skapa löjligheter för alla barn och unga oavsett bakgrund. Pisa-undersökningen för 2015 Blottar oroveckande trender som tycks förstarkas. Skillnaderna mellan skolor är ännu rätt små i Finland, men daremot växer skillnaderna mellan regioner. Föräldrarnas utbildning och socioekonomiska bakgrund inverkar också allt mer på barnets skolframgångar. Därför brode man satsa mer på Jämlikheten i undervisningen, inte mindre, Vilket regeringen nu gör med sitt språkexperiment. Grundlagsutskottet har i sitt uttalande påpekat att det med valfriheten finns risker för snedvridning relaxerad till sociala orsaker, kön och region. Också i kulturutskottet fäste man bland flera sakkunniga uppmärksamhet vid precis mosma sak. Man kan ju förstås tycka att 2200 elevator i det bull experiments inte är mycket. Men för dem som berörs, dessa 2200, kan det innebära consevenser för resten av livet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u449	Värderade Talman! Regeringens förslag till lag om språkförsök är ett dåligt motiverat lagförslag som behandlar unga finländare på ett ojämlikt sätt och som dessutom kommer att ha långtgående och mycket sannolikt negativa consekvenser för de unga finländare som deltar i det taus försöket. Lagförslaget har motiverats med att man vill göra språkundervisningen mer mångsidig. Men flera expertlåtanden och instanser, som bland you give OAJ, också det finska förbundet för språklärare, har tvärtom varnat för att det här försöket antgligen kommenter att ha en motsatt effekt, det vill säga mängden främmande språk som studeras i finskspråkiga skolor kommenter att minska i och med att A2- och B1-språken i princip i fortsättningen komner att bli alternativ till varandra. I practicen innebär det alltså att de finländare som för tilfället Studerar tre främmande språk: engelska, svenska och något tredje, i fortsättningen enbart kommenter att studera två: engelska och det andra främmande språket. Ifall regeringens målsättning skulle att öka språkutbudet och göra språkstudierna mer mångsidiga brode man i stället satsa på att öka utbudet av frivilliga främmmande språk och också satsa på mer resorter så att kommunerna har öjlighet att erbjuda dem. Enligt OAJ är situationen för tilfället den att man i cirka reserve kommun inte kan läja att studera ett A2-språk på grund av bristande resurser och bristande utbud. Lagförslaget om språkförsök har också motiverats med att man vil öka motitiionen för språkstudier. Men det finns inte belägg som skulle tyda på att det finns ett samband mellan huruvida ett amne är obligatoriskt och hur mycket motitation studentanden känner för att studera just det språket. Ett tydligt exempel på det är det beslut man gjorde gällande svenskan i studentskrivningarna, som alltså inte har lett till att man studentar mer svenska än tidigare. Ett gives the gott exempel är engelska, som för tilfället är obligatorisk i finländska grundskolor, och som många studentanden är väldigt välmotiverade att studera enligt de utredningar man har gjort i Finland. Problemmet med det rauh förslaget är alltså också att det försätter unga finländare i en problemmatisk location då man i practiceken har öjlighet att läja bnt vis alternativ vad gäller fortsätningsstudier och vis alternativ vad gäller framtida sysselsätningsmöjligheter. Jag tycker också att de förslag som man nu har gjort om hur man kan komensera för bristande kunskaper i svenska inte är sådana som tillräckligt tar i beaktande de negativa consekenserna som det högst antagligen komper att ha för de rai studerandena. Utöver det arv finns det också en ironi i att de Svenskspråkiga finländarna inte kommer att kunna delta i det arv språkförsöket, det är alltså enbart riktat till finskspråkiga finländare som kan llija brt undervisning i det ena inhemska språket.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u450	Värderade Talman! Etter två valdigt goda tal, ricksdagsledamot Wallin och ricksdagsledamot Andersson, vill jag ändå fortsätta och kanske bygga på. Jag förenar mig faktiskt med allt som ni rain. Det är ju en märklig situation att regeringen just nu i den ärlden, i det rauta Norden, i det rauta Europa alltså värjer att göra en strategist för att utveckla vår grundskola, vår grundutbildning på det viset att eleverna lär sig mindre än vad man gjorde förut, att man har mindre färdigheter att klara sig i världen och klara sig till och med inom vårt eget land. Det säger sig nästan av sig självt, men tydligen är det inte självklart, att i Finland som är ett litet land brode vi fortsättingsvis activt satsa mycket mera på att lära oss många språk, så många som möjligt, och inte fundera på att vi vill minska inlärnningen av språk och språkkunskaperna. Vi borde hellre satsa på att fundera på vilket sätt vi skulle bli bättre, hur det skulle konna vara lattare, hur vi kände göra det tidigare och få ett naturligt förhållande till olika språk. Ordspråket om att man i Finland tiger på två språk blir ju faktiskt inte ens sant, utan vi kommer i framtiden att tiga bara på ett språk. Vi måste alltså göra någonting för att finländarra också när de deltar i oika möten, i internationalellt samarbete, när man jobbar internationalellt, också ska lära sig att våga tala många språk, och svenskan är ett av de allra viktigaste språken i arbetslivet både i Norden och också antars. När man tänker på Norden är det ganska naturligt att vi i många andra sammanhang i dag i politiken diskuterar hur viktigt det är både ur säkerhetspolitisk synvinkel, men också ur andra politiska synvinklar när vi tittar på EU:s framtid, att Finland ska vaa en activ del av Norden och att vi i Norden har mycket att ge till exempel i Olika internationalella sammang. Men för att vi inte bara ska vara ett släp på det övriga Norden så måste vi också kunna delta i den nordiska debatten och den nordiska disussionen. Regeringens förslag om språkförsök är som ox sagt också märkligt ur den synvinkelnn att det är valddigt icke-finländskt på det viset att man helt enkelt satsar på att försätta barn i oika situationer, specieellt när det visar sig att det riktar sig — såsom också grundlagsutskottet säger att det finns risker att det riktar sig — snävt till grupper, kanske pojkar, kanske barn som har svagare utgångsläge, kanske barn som inte harfare harfaberter, sämänger ska viglararer, sämängert ärter, sämistäminen ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärt ärmien Man anser alltså att det att utveckla skolan är att man ska få läja bort ämnen i stället för att läja till. Grundlagsutskottet talar värdigt intressant, tycker jag, när man diskaterar att det ska vara en accepterad grund att man kan göra sådana ai begränsade försök för att utveckla grundutbildningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u451	Mr President, Herr Talman! Undervisningsminister Sanni Grahn-Laasonen avlägsnade sig genast då behandlingen av det ärendet inleddes ox för en stand sedan. Beklagligt, men samtidigt kan man kanske förstå det, för det au handlar ju inte om Bildning utan det au handlar om en profilesringsfråga för sannfinländarna och de blåa. Det är det som det ox handlar om, inte alltså en undervisningsfråga.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u452	Irade the Talman! Det har variantt många goda inlägg koh tidigare i debatten från ledamöterna Wallin, Andersson, Biaudet och Feldt-Ranta, och jag ska fortsätta att öppna upp några aspekter som jag ser på det raj lagförslaget. Förra veckan firade vi att vårt land phyllde undra år, Together — Tillsammans. Finlands TVå språk är en alldeles fundamental del av Finlands history och identityt. Det auri förslaget om ett språkförsök kommenter dock att göra att det svenska språket får en mer undanträngd roll i den finländska skolan. Det gör mig både ledsen och konfunderad, för varför vill man minska svenska språkets ställning i vårt land, då det inte entbart är en kontaktlänk till en stor del av vårt lands history utan också är en bro och kontttyta till övriga Norden, precis det som ledamot Biaudet tog upp. Vill Finland vara en activ medlem av den nordiska arbets-, utbildnings- och kulturmarknaden så går det inte att bortse från den språkliga kometensen och svenskakunskaperna i landet. Irade the Talman! SvenskaKunskaperna i statsförvaltningen och hos statliga myndigheter har försämrats om man blickar tillbaka i ett 10 to 15års perspectiv. Det har också constatats i tidigare utlåtanden från grundlagsutskottet. Inget pekar på att den ox utvecklingen håller på att avstanna i dag. Av den anledningen borde vi i stället diskutera hur vi kan vända på den ar utvecklingen, hur Svenskundervisningen kan utvecklas och förstarkas, inte avvecklas och försvagas. De försämrade svenskakunskaperna i statsförvaltningen och myndigheterna märks också på Åland. För Hundra år sedan drev ålänningarna en kamp för att få bli återförenat med Sverige för att svenska språkets ställning skulle tryggas på Åland också i framtiden. Nationernas förbund beslöt att Åland ska förbli en del av Finland men bli en självstyrd autonomi för att trygga den Svenskspråkiga culturen, traditionerna och språket. Som en del av den internationella överenskommelsen förband sig Finland att upprätthålla förbindelser och åtaganden för och på Åland på svenska. Det ox har riket under Hundra år scött på ett för det mesta föredömligt och oklanderligt jätt. De Senaste åren har vi dock märkt en försämring i svenskakunskaperna i kontakterna med Åland, och därför är det skäl att också i detta heisende påminna om den internationalella överenskommelsen och de förpliktelser Finland gett det internationalella samfundet att kunna sköta kontakterna med Åland på svenska. Om färre läser och lär sig svenska i skolan så blir det nämligen på sikt svårare att också trygga de språkliga rättigheterna enligt grundlagen och de av Finland internationalellt avgivna förpliktelserna om att kommunikationen med Åland ska kunna ske på svenska också i practiceken. Vissa kapadar att den valfria svenska ger mer platsåt andra språk på dagordningen. Det finns dock absolut ingenting som säger att det stämmer, något som också ledamot Andersson var inne på, för mosma argumentation användes då svenskan gjordes frivillig i studenttexamen och nu, tio år senare, vet vi hur det gick. Efter att svenskan blev frivillig i studentexamen har antlet studentande som skriver svenskan i studenten i finska scolor minskat med 50 percent. Samtidigt har annat som skriver lång tyska minskat med 70 percent och kort tyska med 60 percent. Lång franska har minskat med 40 percent och kort franska med 60 percent. Italienskan har minskat med 60 percent. Sedan svenska blev frivillig i studentskrivningarna har alltså andra språk också minskat dramatiskt i popuriritet. Det finns också stora skillnader mellan könen, något som ledamot Wallin var inne på. Språkkunskaper öppnar dörrar och är inte tunga att bara med sig. Av den anledningen brode vi i stället diskutera hur vi kan utveckla Svenskundervisningen och språkutvecklingen i skolan, inte som detta förslag att börja med en avveckling av den.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u453	Mr President, ärade talman! Finland is a bilingual country. We are now living in the 21st century, soon we have already lived in a quarter of it, and this is the stage when we should turn bilingualism into richness in this country. Versatile language skills are in everyone's interest and could be promoted in Finland, through the use of natural language baths as well as Finnish language skills in Swedish-speaking areas. Children in Finnish and Swedish could very well be in the same day-care centre and school, even if the reading materials were always taught in their own mother tongue. Intermissions, ball games, lunch hours and so on could be shared. That would be the coming of nature’s language skills. It is incredibly easy for children to learn more languages under school age, and if the language is still supported at school age by teaching another language, this learning will be more easily done. Of course, we must also ensure that the Minority, the Finnish Swedes, learns the language of good mayoralism, or Finnish. Unfortunately, this is not always possible in all localities, for example in Swedish-speaking Ostrobothnia. This is an accident for Finnish-Swedish children and young people. It is also an obstacle for them to study at Finnish universities and Finnish-speaking schools. That's another language we need. I would also like — and I am well aware of the law of Åland and Åland, as I have also sat on the Committee to change it — to have more Finnish language studied voluntarily in Åland than is currently being studied. However, if it is our autonomous territory, it would be good to know how to speak that language when you come here on the mainland. Mr President! Now it is worth burying the idea of "svenska Talande battre folk", because that is not true. In Vaasa, the system works so that one can speak Finnish and the other can speak Swedish, we get along very well. Sometimes we even mix the language across: I speak Swedish and my Swedish-speaking friend speaks Finnish to me, it is good practice for both of us. Sometimes it does cause confusion in other people, that why do they talk like that, but most of them understand it. Finnish and Swedish speakers can work side by side, work side by side and support each other in the language. As an adult student myself, I have noticed that the fact that I have sometimes studied Swedish at school or perhaps read Swedish better has also been useful in learning other languages. In my opinion, a step towards bilingualism becoming a rich one is to support language skills from childhood and from infancy. Besides, it's kind of nice for a Finnish-speaking person in Stockholm to even say a little "svenska". It feels so great then to be like abroad, just like English is spoken in England, it feels just like it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u454	Mr President! With this Government proposal, a regional language experiment will be launched in accordance with Parliament’s commitment in 2014. There are many challenges to this experiment, as has already been well described here today. In its report, the committee stressed the need for the teacher to ensure that the student and his or her guardians or other legal representatives are aware of the language requirements of the legislation in force, for example the importance of knowledge in both national languages for further studies and admission to office. The student taking part in the experiment will be guaranteed the opportunity to cancel the language selection he has previously made and to start studying another Finnish language in the seventh grade. There are also a number of challenges to this, which are clearly emerging. After all, the result of the suspension can be very modest language skills in the language chosen but despite support, even in the case of enhanced support, weak skills in Swedish. I believe that this experiment is particularly challenging when it comes to drawing up a curriculum for new languages, but, above all, it will be a challenge to have a teacher in that rarer language. Especially in small municipalities, a small number of hours does not tempt anyone to come and teach a rare language. One problem, in my opinion, is that we are talking here about a short trial, but it is not a short experiment for four to five years in primary school, and the effects are also on the second stage and the higher level. And if we are to be honest, the costs may fall on the party that is not involved in the experiment at all. However, an ex ante evaluation of the impact of pilot projects is very challenging and if all the results were known in advance,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u455	Mr President! I took the floor after Mrs Parviainen because I thought there was a strong defence from the government party on behalf of this experiment, but you put forward such good arguments as to what all the concerns in this proposal are that I can only agree with Mrs Parviainen's good speech. For myself, I see bilingualism as a genuine asset and I fear that this proposal will now put a number of young people in a position of inequality. They lose the opportunity for bilingualism altogether. While civil servants and many other demands remain in society, these young people are in an unequal position. I am also afraid that the choice of who goes along with this can have an impact on the family background, which can affect the possibilities of making choices in their own lives at the moment. It may be that this attracts those who may have the most challenging school at the moment. I think that the most important thing is that the school prepares us all for the widest possible and good language skills, and I do think that, as the OAJ or EK have pointed out, this may actually lead to a loss of general language skills. That is what we saw when the compulsory Swedish language was removed from the matriculation exams. As a bilingual person, I find it difficult to understand that anyone would feel burdened by this fact, that he knows two languages. I believe that the main problem is that too few learn the Swedish language well and vividly at the school, when I see for myself that the solution is that we are developing the Swedish language. We are developing how it is studied and we are speeding up that study, because we know that young children are learning in an incredible way. The older you get, the harder it gets. I would like to make that point again when it is here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u456	Mr President! I would like to take this opportunity to make one contribution in defence of the government's proposal. Of course, I understand your concern and I hope that these concerns will not come true if, for example, the civil servant Swedish is still in force in 15 years' time, when there are students at that stage. Of course, there are many countries that are bilingual, such as Canada, where there is no compulsory language learning in both languages, and yet both languages are widely studied and valued and widely used. But what I wanted to take the floor for, and what I wanted to point out when it was raised here, how studies are becoming more difficult and students are becoming unequal: Students can be unequal even so that in schools where, for example, a Chinese language or a Russian language is chosen, students will in the future have absolutely superior opportunities to move forward in working life because they learn this language at a young age. On this point, I fully agree that language learning should start as early as possible, and of course I would like us all in Parliament to encourage young people to study both Swedish and other languages. Just as Mr Löfström said: språkkunskaper öppnar dörrar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u457	Mr President! When Mr Kalmari promised to defend this government proposal but did not do so, you raised one instance in a way and gave the impression that these young people, who then choose this Swedish language away, would study Chinese or Russian. Unfortunately, however, all the information available indicates that their language skills will be further reduced, not at all to improve their language skills. I'm asking you how you'd advise your own children to do it. Would you advise your own children to do: Choose this away, close doors for yourself in the future, complicate your own learning path, close doors in advance decades after the tasks you need? I believe that every one of us here are conscious people, we know how to advise our children. Unfortunately, this experiment will lead to children and young people who may already be in need of support and who may not always have the best advisers at their disposal to choose out this Swedish language.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u458	Mr President! As a person who has attended school in Swedish and studied both Finnish and Russian as foreign languages in comprehensive school, I question this theory that this language experiment would automatically lead to a significant increase in studying Russian in Finland. So I see it as desirable and desirable in itself, but I do see that in the case of students who find it difficult to motivate themselves to study Swedish, a foreign language in which to learn the new alphabet and whose grammar is at least significantly more difficult for verbs than, for example, Swedish grammar, I personally do not consider it very likely. If the aim is to increase the learning of, for example, Russian or even Chinese, for which I find this even more unlikely to lead to this, then it should be addressed precisely through resources, that there are foreign languages of choice available, and above all through attitude education, that is to say, by highlighting the importance of language competence and the importance of a wide variety of languages also in working life. I can tell you that in Varsinais-Suomi, both Finnish and Russian skills have been very useful in finding jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u459	Mr President, ärade talman! Det är ju så att ett språk ofta brukar öppna fler språk, och det är är väldigt ällan en människa som är är rädd för att lära sig ett nätt språk, till exempel svenska om man är finskspråkig, har lät för att lära sig andra språk, utan det är ju tvärtom, det ena öppnar det andra och man lär sig tänka på ett ötttttt tättt. Man kan dessutom tänka att effectsom engelskan är ganska populär så är ju svenskan inte så långt ifrån, det finns många ord som man får helt automatiskt. Det är egentligen ett ganska litet steg. Jag tycker också att det är intressant att man inte har tänkt på, då man tittar på de Svenskspråkiga skolorna där man faktiskt lär sig finska betydligt tidigare, varför det är så att man i de finskspråkiga skolorna har upplevt att man inte till exempel ska tröva på att börja lasa svenska betydligt tidigare i skola. And, till och med att vi på dagis skulle kunna börja lära oss mycket fler lekar och sådant på båda inhemska språken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u460	It's about choosing away. It may as well be thought that it allows for the choice of a language that is not possible at least in smaller localities at present. In Eastern Finland, for example, I believe that Russian is the language for which there will be quite a lot of additional use, as long as tourism continues to develop and export relations with the lifting of sanctions will increase significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u461	Mr President! To Mr Kalmar's speech: it cannot be denied that this choice will produce a new language and new skills that may have more benefit in the future from the point of view of employment and career opportunities in that place than it would have in that Swedish language study. But I personally think that all language learning is ahead, and the increase in the range of languages could be done by other means, as has been said here. The experiment is an experiment, and it is now moving forward. I am going to follow the results very closely, and then I will be interested in those results later, not just after primary school. I think that the family that is now making this choice of languages is very committed to the place where they live at that moment, because moving to another place can be quite difficult after this, or at least it will require a tremendous amount of effort from both that child and his parents. There could then be one positive idea that this might make it possible to learn a language with quite different methods, for example, even if a company might be interested in organising language teaching in a different way. But here we must remember that the cost may then fall on the one who is now taking part in this language experiment. There was someone there who suggested that the principal thought of it this way, but the principal really does not think this way. To be honest, I would not dare anyone to present this experiment in my own school.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u462	Mr President! As Mr Kalmari has said a little earlier, I myself would say that, when we talked about opting out, I myself would rather see this as an opportunity for the students to have access to this experiment. These concerns have been raised here, mainly in relation to this legal protection for students and students. In fact, there was a debate in the Education Committee that the role of the Finnish National Board of Education is very important as regards information. In other words, the Finnish National Board of Education must continue to invest in information and teaching providers who apply for this experiment, and later, of course, in these students and their parents. Of course, in terms of both the rights of these students and their subsequent responsibilities, it must be clear that all the relevant facts are known to the students and their parents when applying for this experiment. But as a whole, I really welcome this experiment. It could have been wider, in fact, because many opinions pointed out that such a small experiment might not achieve very precise results. That is why we proposed at first reading that the scope should have been 5000 pupils, but then it will not be so large, so this 2200 will come, and I hope that a good follow-up study will then be carried out in order to make this experiment truly useful. Let me add that there has been talk here of Russian and Chinese languages. Yes, they do have different alphabets. It may be that a lot of work is needed if and when they go to study, but of course there are other languages that the student can choose — German, French, Italian, Spanish, many major world languages — and I believe and hope that this experiment will produce good results.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u464	Mr President! Alphabets is still the easy part of these two languages. — Once again, I should like to thank Mrs Parvia for her excellent speech. Professionals know what they're talking about. It has been pointed out here that young people would now choose, for example, Russian or Chinese. I hope that a lot of people will choose very useful languages, but unfortunately when all the statistics and all the signs show something quite different. In Eastern Finland, we had a separate budget in place to create Russian groups for willing students. It wasn't used because there was no interest. I don't know what's changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u465	Mr President! The fact that children study Swedish does not prevent them from studying other languages. I think I already mentioned that I was quite lazy there in Swedish class, so I was also in German class and later in English class. But in any of these languages I will not be sold to Bedouins today. I do well with them when I have to cope with those languages, and all the languages have helped one another. It just works that the more languages you know, the easier it will be to learn the next language even if we go to a different language line. When you get those gray brain buds moving, you learn other languages much easier. I would be much more concerned if this kind of language experiment is done, whether we have enough Chinese teachers, whether we have enough Russian teachers or whether we have enough Arabic teachers, which is what we need today in Finland. Where do we get those teachers? If the situation is that there will not then be this other domestic study, then what will be done if you cannot form these groups? What happens to Swedish teachers? Do you think they'll be there waiting for me if it happens that no other groups are coming here now, then maybe I'll get a job? I don't think this is gonna happen. I'm sure we'll have to look at these things a little more broadly. The fact that a child learns a language in school or in the yard, of course, in the yard rather than in school, because it is easier and it is playful and that is how it is learned, I think it is worth supporting rather than resisting. This culture of opposition in Finland is a little strange. However, anything that comes through a language or culture is rich to the very person who is studying it and who can internalize it. It gives more than it takes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u466	Mr President! The whole picture of this reform will be covered by the last speech by Mrs Parviainen. He has been on the subject both in the Constitutional Committee and in the Committee on Culture and Education, and when he says here that he could not recommend this to any child as a principal, then the whole reform and what this is all about will be covered. It is irresponsible and, just like you, we will follow this very closely. But the only concern is that, unfortunately for 2,200 children, an adult makes this choice away, and it is a sad thing because of these children, especially when it comes to tying that child to the locality, the local school system, the culture we live in, the millennium of globalisation in which children are certainly moving away from their homeland, quite certainly also from Finland to other parts of the world, and against that background I find this extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u467	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Mrs Parviai. I find this very interesting that if this proposal is dealt with in detail by the experience of the principal, it is not even recommended as an experiment. I understand that, and I believe that these reasons were very reasonable and revealed that this experiment is certainly not aimed at developing comprehensive school or basic education. I do find it very problematic that there is a whole other agenda here, which is probably from somewhere around the Nuiva Manifesto. I find it sad that someone feels that due to their personal problems or experience, bilingualism in Finland is such a difficult issue. Perhaps we should now consider this relationship with each other and build it here in Parliament. I have often wondered why, for example, MPs have so little interest in language learning. We have a huge opportunity in this Parliament to study Swedish, Chinese, whichever, but very few use this. And it can be seen when you sit at international meetings or when committees travel. Very few speak fluently and dare to speak many languages, and note that we could be much more active in international situations and stronger negotiators if we had stronger languages. So maybe now we'll all start learning a little more languages and show that it's great to study languages, and then we'll follow up on this sad, sad political vendetta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u469	Mr President! I had to ask for this speech, and I am sure I have to apologize to the gym for my rash language when I know that in this country we are so upset and want to be misunderstood. I told you I wouldn't be sold to Bedouins. Well, I will not be sold to Finns or Swedes, nor to anyone else in these languages, English, German, Swedish or Finnish. It's just a saying. Don't be upset.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u470	Mr President! Let me also say that Parliament, in its great wisdom in 2014, has increased such an effort, and that is something that is now being taken forward, and, as I said in that first speech, if all things were known in advance about the experiment, then it would be pointless to try it. But it is being followed with interest, and I really think that we should follow it to higher education too, so hopefully one of the younger people will still be sitting in Parliament, while the final results of this experiment will then be followed up. I hope at least Andersson will report later on what has happened with this language experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u471	Mr President! I have no choice but to respond to Mr Biaudet's throwing about why MPs do not study languages, and I would also like to answer this from the point of view of a small locality. I myself wanted to study French at primary school. I didn't have a chance. I read German back then. I started studying French in high school, but when I was a long-term student of mathematics and a resource-oriented mind, it was a very difficult or quite impossible equation to continue studying German and still take a new language, and then I had to give up this study of French. "Parcequecen'estpassible" uses it, studying in a small community. And I would hope that this experiment will now provide opportunities for a variety of new learning paths, that it will also be able to develop it. If this experiment does not carry on, then it is not worth continuing. In my opinion, from the point of view of Finland's development, it is worth experimenting with these things, because there are different employment routes, and I am constantly in need of that French language at the Council of Europe meetings. I'm studying it here now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u472	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u473	Mr President! This government proposal has the problems that affect the finances of municipalities, and it is a question of the lack of money that has been caused by municipalities, for example, the kiky agreement and these other cuts that have been made. That is why I shall make a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u474	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Sem's performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u475	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u476	President! Unfortunately, the freezing and binding of the maximum housing expenditure envisaged in the Government proposal under discussion in the cost index instead of the rent index will increase income support expenditure and the need for income support. Savings measures for general housing support are particularly problematic as they affect the most low-income part of the population, and these problems are also reflected in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The changes now being made by the government do not reflect the concept of good and affordable housing, especially when the general housing allowance has already been cut in the previous two years. Adding to this the general increase in housing expenditure and the percentage increases in rent levels, especially in the non-subsidised rental market, is a poor trend. It would now be important to try to ensure that housing costs for both rented and owner-occupied residents, without forgetting possible special groups, remain reasonable. In this situation, this government proposal does not improve, so, Mr President, I propose that this government bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u477	Mr President! I asked for the floor to propose that this government proposal be rejected, but when the motion for rejection was tabled, I support this motion for rejection. This is an extraordinary government proposal that the explanatory statement of the government's proposal actually explains why this proposal should not be adopted. The explanatory statement of the Government proposal states that an estimated 40% of the savings expected to be made on the housing allowance side will result in an increase in the need for income support. Here we discussed for a long time the issue of unemployment security, how people are encouraged or discouraged. In that debate, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, among other things, pointed out that many social security researchers have pointed out that income support is the least encouraging form of social security, a form of social security which least encourages people to increase their own earnings through their own work and thus improve their own situation, because income support is the cruelest way to cut it if they manage to increase their own income. Consequently, this reduction in housing allowance proposed by the government also undermines the incentive of our social security system to work and the ability of people to improve their own situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u478	Mr President! In practice, the amendment of the general housing allowance law is about the reduction of housing allowance. As presented, the change in the law undermines the general level of housing allowance, thus making the situation of the already most vulnerable citizens more difficult. Moreover, there is no clear evidence that the level of housing allowance directly affects the rent level, whereas the effects on beneficiaries are beyond doubt. This change will exacerbate inequalities by reducing the livelihoods of the most vulnerable groups in the economy. It will also become worse over time if housing expenditure increases more than the cost-of-living index. There is a risk, as the committee has also shown, that an increasing number of recipients of general housing allowance will become long-term users of income support through progressive deterioration. Income support is intended as a last resort form of support, but now the government is using the housing allowance to cut people to income support, and this will certainly not result in savings, but in additional costs. We Social Democrats consider it important to curb the increase in housing costs, but it is wrong to seek it by reducing the daily income of housing allowance. In committee work, we tabled a piece of legislation and, in the interests of consistency, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u479	Mr President! The government has repeatedly spoken about how important it is to reduce housing allowance expenditure. Yes, but the only sustainable way to do this is to reduce the need for housing allowance. This means that we need more affordable housing. Increasing the volume is one way, but it cannot be forgotten about quality either. Municipalities need to make strong land and land policies to ensure that the housing they create is also affordable. I have always suspected, and I can say that I know that the weakening of housing allowance will certainly be passed to some extent on to income support, but it was only from this government proposal that I learned that it is up to 40 per cent, which is transferred directly from the savings of housing allowance to income support expenditure. And we know that income support is intended as a last resort protection and temporary protection; it is a very passive form of support that deprives people of opportunities in their own lives, and it is not desirable that anyone should be permanently involved in it. Already a large number of people, especially in growing urban areas, where housing costs are a particular problem, have to rely on income support permanently to cover housing costs. This is a completely unsustainable solution, and I hope that the government will now take stronger action on what really solves this situation: how we will get more production at affordable prices. I have many ideas for this, and I hope that Mr Tiilikainen will at some point introduce them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u480	Mr President! I am also in favour of the representative. Immonen's motion for rejection. Indeed, in this initial government proposal to amend the general housing allowance law, there was a share in part-time housing and the maximum housing cost of less than 20 square metres, but it has now been removed during committee procedure. Removing it was definitely the right solution, as the impact could have been significant, especially on the income of students. It is already so limited that the planned change to housing allowance in this respect could have further weakened it and still significantly. However, tying the maximum cost of general housing allowance to the cost index instead of the rent index remained in this government proposal, which I do not consider to be a good thing at all. Government measures, such as tax increases in heating fuels, have raised the price of living elsewhere. Even the increase in the lower limit of the property tax was planned by the government, but fortunately it was cancelled. From this point of view, this change in general housing allowance is not to be welcomed. In general, efforts should be made to reduce the price of housing. Instead of this bill, the cost of living should indeed be reduced, and the cost of housing allowance would also be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u481	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. General discussion — the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u482	Mr President! We are dealing here with the amendment of the Forest Information System Act of the Centre for Forests. This legislation is based on the Government Programme's record of our top project "Puu on the move and new products from the forest". In the Government negotiations, we already wanted to increase the use of forest information and electronic services, and this project has been pursued with determination. Another reason for this legislation is that, according to the directive on public access to European environmental information, environmental information must be open to all. Finland received a letter of formal notice in 2015, and the Commission also issued an opinion on the same matter to Finland in 2016. In the future, it would have been possible for the Commission to bring an action against Finland if this matter had not been brought into legislation under the Directive. So that is how legislation has now been brought forward. By facilitating the use of forest information, we can increase the value of publicly produced information, create opportunities for new business, develop better services and improve decision-making related to forests and increase transparency in administration. This will enable us to improve forestry efficiency and improve the acceptability of sustainable forestry. In fact, this can also better take into account the diversity and environmental aspects of harvesting sites, as well as reducing harvesting damage and the impact of forestry on water bodies. That's where Mr. Hakkarainen spoke before the session began. I'm sure I meant to stay here, but I didn't. It is precisely the kind of thing that, this year, when the harvesting conditions have been very poor, it would be easier to combine all the information about forest resources so that it would then be better to find just the right type of summer dressers, and this is of course the benefit of the whole forestry sector from the owner to the industry. The Committee considers it important that more transparent distribution of forest information which is considered to be environmental information is made possible at the same time as more extensive digitisation of forestry harvesting and transport and administration. The committee actually had a rather hard time dealing with it. This legislation was reasonably easy to do because the whole forestry sector was united in this matter and I would continue to hope that, if changes to forest legislation were needed, the sector could jointly consider its wisest route to take the matter forward, so that it would then be easier to do so here in the legislation. However, we had some concerns raised by the Data Protection Supervisor in particular in our committee, even though this proposal was, by the way, very unanimous on the basis of expert consultations. So we put them in this report, and we also have a proposal for a statement. We wanted to avoid the wrong use of personal data, and when, in practice, forest data without the personal data of a natural person related to them are now available to everyone specifically for these environmental data, we implemented this in such a way that they cannot be linked to personal data. The new provisions do not release the name, address and other personal data of the landowner for public use. Access to them will continue to require the basis laid down in the Personal Data Act or other law, as well as a written request for information and a decision taken by Metsäkeskus on the basis thereof. For example, the Metsäkeskus metsä.fi service, which is about the transfer method that is now changing, such as the execution of a contract or the execution of a mandate, for example, a proxy transaction, could have such a basis on which information could be obtained in the future on the basis of personal data. However, each forest owner will continue to be able to ban the use of data, for example, for direct marketing, but if there is a direct marketing possibility, it can be used more closely, for example, by using the average volume of the farm or other area, location, main tree species or trees. Then we had a debate on data collection. In the future, the possibility of collecting information with the help of personnel other than Metsäkeskus is possible, and this is quite wise, because today such openness and transparency and crowding are the things that can take things forward. However, Metsäkeskus must be responsible for the accuracy of this information, and Metsäkeskus will then deposit this information and both the source and the data collection method and the date of the information. For example, it may be thought that the correct coverage of storm data, such as the amount of decayed wood or the number of trees fallen into the forest, is much easier to estimate when it can be done by people other than those hired by the Forest Center. Forest machines, for example, are able to collect a huge amount of data that has not yet been utilised today. However, quality assurance is very important. We must be able to continue to rely on the information that Metsäkeskus then gives to the public. Metsäkeskus will update forest reserve data on a pattern-specific basis only with data estimated to be reliable. Since we were concerned that this information was certainly correct, we made minor changes to the legal text, and also because we were concerned that this information would not be misused, we then made a statement on these two points, which reads: 'The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is required to have a report by the end of 2020 on the impact of the legislation now being adopted.'
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u483	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Forest Information System of the Finnish Forest Centre. The aim is to amend the law so that information on forest information systems considered to be public environmental information can be disclosed without existing data disclosure procedures. The Forest Information and Electronic Services project is part of the main project of the Government’s Government Programme “Puu to Move and New Products from the Forest”. The aim of this project is to improve the use of forest resource information by improving the quality and mobility of information and by developing electronic services. As the use of forests is increasing, it is also important to improve the availability of information necessary for the management and monitoring of activities. This will help both improve the efficiency of forestry and improve the acceptability of sustainable forestry. I think it is important that satellite monitoring is also involved in the monitoring of forest use. Images can be used to determine illegal logging. In North Karelia, for example, there has already been a pilot experiment involving regions from several municipalities. Metsäkeskus compared satellite imaging data to forest use reports, and a total of 73 felled forest stands were found in four pilot areas in Finland, which had not been reported for forest use. This rate of non-compliance is around 0.3% of the annual forest use declarations arriving in the areas described by the satellite. New methods can be used to better demonstrate how well things are on the forest side of the care. This will allow advice, training and adequate information to respond to needs more quickly. The utilisation and processing of forest data for the benefit of industry and forest owners is already progressing globally in Finland. I would also like to see forestry as a subject in upper secondary school education. Finland is a country of forests, and forest know-how should be basic when graduating from upper secondary school. This bill, which is now being discussed, strengthens the position of Finnish forestry as a master of sustainable forestry. Currently, the main rule is that the disclosure of personal data in the forest.fi service requires consent. In the future, such disclosure could be based on other grounds laid down in the Personal Data Act or other law, such as the execution of a contract or the execution of an order. The transfer shall be subject to the right of the recipient to deposit and use such personal data under the provisions on personal data. Personal data would only be disclosed to the extent necessary for the intended use indicated, and this is precisely where it should be accurate. Personal data may not be disclosed for direct marketing purposes, for example, if prohibited by the landowner. The authorisation allows the disclosure of information only to the extent that the information is necessary for the stated marketing purpose. Mr President! I welcome the draft law and also the fact that the committee made a proposal for a statement in the report that a report on the impact of the legislation now being adopted will be sent to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry by the end of 2020. Let us hope that this proposal for a statement does not remain a mere sarcasm.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u484	Mr President! As was the case with Mr Kulmala, we had a very good discussion in committee. What we really raised was that personal data should not be registered. That is not what happens when we use this grid-shaped information, 16 x 16 square meters that are not connected to the personal data register, and forest plans do not open up, but this brings that tree data and environmental information to good common use. After all, we have made a great deal of progress in the forestry sector, for example by facilitating the generational exchange of the forest side, and entrepreneurship reduction will help to create timber trades and the forest owner will then be left with a little less money. Kemera was started after long difficulties and will then be renewed in the long run. This legislation was a continuum in the chain with which we want to take forestry forward. Of course, the most important thing is the investments that we hope will be made in different parts of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u485	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u486	Mr President! Let's be brief. This amendment to the driving licence law briefly means that those coming from outside the EU and the EEA will be able to drive here on Finland's roads under certain conditions in the future. This is particularly relevant for tourism and tourism-related services in Northern Finland. For example, the proposal would make it easier to participate in snowmobile safaris and contribute to the accessibility of smaller tourist destinations. We in the committee drew attention to the fact that, in part, the increase in the number of foreign drivers from different transport cultures and conditions can increase road safety risks to some extent, and this could easily happen with the increase in the number of transport performances. We stressed the need for clear written instructions for foreign drivers or, for example, sufficiently graphic video material, and for information and guidance on the specific characteristics of driving in Finland and the rules of transport — all of this, not only on the basis of expert consultations, but also on the need that arose in this Chamber during the referral debate, because a lot of representatives were concerned about the safety aspects of traffic in this bill. What else was highlighted? It was stressed that the Ministry of Transport and Communications should closely monitor and assess the impact of regulation during the coming tourist season and, if necessary, it will be possible to review the regulation in the context of a larger draft amendment to the driving licence law in 2018, for example. Mr President! All in all, the Northern Finland in particular has been looking forward to this amendment of the law, and that is why it is now intended to enter into force in the tourist season of this winter. All in all, a bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u487	Mr President! Representative Taimela actually went over that bill quite well and also the discussion which was held in the Committee on Transport and Communications on this matter. After all, in the Committee on Transport and Communications there is now also a bigger reform of driving licence legislation, and this government proposal is actually part of it, but it is precisely this bill that has been sought to move forward quickly and quickly, because it is precisely in Lapland that tourism entrepreneurs have wanted such a proposal to be taken forward. This really will diversify tourism in the north. Visitors outside the EU and the EEA also have access to more places in Lapland. When this debate was held in committee and experts were consulted, it actually came up with what kind of driving licence is needed and what vehicles can be driven in the north with this bill of law. The debate on heavy-duty vehicles was the most important, and I personally hope that this government proposal will now lead to passenger cars and also snowmobiles and aviators being used there by tourists. Just like the representative. Taimela pointed out that there was also quite a lot of discussion about road safety and the guidance given to the foreigners. All in all, this government proposal has received a unanimous report in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and hopefully this will also go smoothly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u488	Mr President! Here is another bill that needs to be considered before road safety, and fortunately, since this referral debate, this has changed somewhat. There is no longer such danger that China, for example, will come to Finland and drive a truck here on summer tyres under winter conditions. But, of course, there are still a number of problems, if that is what you want to think. If the forthcoming reform of the Road Traffic Act allows a passenger car to drive a light trailer at 100 km/h, then there are similar horror scenarios here, but of course they apply to all of us. But, Mr President, this bill is almost acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u489	Oh, Mr Torniainen seems to have made it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-11-ps-135.u490	Mr President! Just a few minutes later, which has not come up in this debate, but the Committee on Transport and Communications has come up, and it has also come into the report, and the government's proposal has been clarified. It's the language of the driver's license. If, for example, travelers from China, the Chinese licence must be converted into a Finnish, Swedish, English, Danish or French card and its card must be translated through an expert translator. There was a debate on this and there was a desire to go into the almost joint Nordic procedure that the same languages then have no problems with possible border crossings.
