ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u2	Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u3	Mr President! Yesterday, in the debate on the mid-term issue, this Chamber shared the concern for vocational training. The cuts in vocational education and training will inevitably lead to fewer start-up places, fewer local education, less quality of education, fewer offices and as many as 3,000 professional teachers. In the name of Reform, you will take the money, but at the same time you will not let the instruments of control make sense. In yesterday's debate, the use of the centre's group address, Mr Honkonen, called for the situation of vocational education and training to be eased in the middle of the government's debate, because many training providers are already in difficulty. Since yesterday in this Chamber we were left without answers, the question is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u4	Mr President! Our common concern about the situation in vocational education and training was expressed in the centre's group speech, and the Minister has also said so here in front of us. There was no call to cancel the cuts in the central group statement, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u6	Mr President! Finland has become known around the world as a model country for education, but because of the cuts we are losing this crown jewel. We have 80,000 young people in this society, in this country, who are ignorant of you. They're not in training, they're not at work, they're not in military service. Their employment is weakened by prolonged unemployment, low education and low work experience. The SDP wants to keep all the kids involved. The SDP is the only party that, under the leadership of Mr Ihalainen, has made a comprehensive, new youth guarantee programme. The programme extends from early childhood to first job. The guarantee strengthens the support network for young people so that no young people will be left without secondary education, post-graduate education or work in the future. Will you, Prime Minister Sipilä, take seriously the plight of young people,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u7	Mr President! It is clear that the government takes the situation of young people seriously. As far as this vocational training situation is concerned, this is one of the difficult and painful cuts that have been decided by one government: EUR 190 million. From the beginning of the 21st century, the financing of vocational education and training has risen from around EUR 1 billion to around EUR 2 billion, and now comes 190 million back. We still have training places about one and a half times the number of applicants. Which means every kid can find his own study trail there. That is also where this reform starts. This reform has long been expected, it is well prepared and it is now going to be a good one. It takes into account many, many of the concerns that have come from that field, both students and teachers along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u8	Mr President! In yesterday's debate, the Minister for Education needed constructive proposals for the development of secondary education. I propose that the government carry out a mid-term review of the benefits of raising compulsory school age. Only Turkey has a shorter compulsory education than Finland. In Germany and the Netherlands, compulsory education takes up to four years longer than ours. Professors Roope Uusitalo and Juho Saari have also drawn attention to this issue, and according to Uusitalo, for example, in the USA, raising the compulsory school age has increased school attendance among 16 to 17-year-olds. It has also increased people's income and employment and reduced unemployment, even the risk of dying in the next ten years. During the last term of government, raising the compulsory education age fell on the question of the cost of free education. In the longer term, however, it will be much cheaper for society to keep all people involved in education and, therefore, in working life. Will you, Minister, clarify this matter in the middle of the debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u9	Mr President! Thank you for raising an important point for the opposition. Yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss the future of vocational education and training. I would like to reassure you in that way by saying that we have enough places to start vocational training to secure the training guarantee. In other words, everyone who has completed comprehensive school will be secured from secondary school or vocational education, including in the future. Similarly, in addition to the measures already in place, the government is also looking for new effective measures to prevent the exclusion of young people. There was a lot of good business during the previous government term, but the results may not have spoken for themselves, as the number of young people not in employment and education increased. Now we need to take more effective action. We need to make services for young people work better together, looking ahead to earlier years, as is the case with key government projects, and the reform of vocational education and training is one of the most important ways in which we can prevent the exclusion of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u10	Mr President, Minister for Education! However, the fact is that in the previous government, thanks to the Ihainen Youth Guarantee, the long-term unemployment rate among Finnish young people was the lowest in Europe, was hardly there. And at the moment, the Ministry of Finance's review states that Finland has become a new phenomenon: there are currently 4,000 young people in Finland who are long-term unemployed. This is a new phenomenon and that is why we are now proposing that the Youth Guarantee should be updated and developed. Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, you did give a slightly wrong impression in that group speech in the centre. It was not only a matter of concern, but also a clear statement: 'The Centre has a desire to find solutions in the mid-term debate to facilitate the situation in vocational education and training'. I mean, to make things easier, and you knocked this out yesterday. We've never seen two wheels like this before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u11	Mr President! A good government can also be supported by the opposition. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] What we discussed here yesterday was whether the cuts that came into force from the beginning of this year would be cancelled. The answer is we're not canceling. What are we dealing with in the middle row? We deal with many, many issues in the mid-term debate, training issues, reform issues, employment issues, and we have a long, long list of issues to deal with, and then we will get answers in the mid-term debate. There's a lot of trouble going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u12	Mr. Speaker! Just as the Prime Minister has just said, last night's group speech did not refer to cuts, but more generally to facilitating the situation in vocational education and training. This cancellation has mainly taken place in the speeches of the Social Democrats during yesterday's debate and now during this Question Time. I am also surprised to hear this speech that the instruments of intervention are lacking in this new proposal on vocational education and training. The starting point here is that there is a local awareness of the needs of young people and businesses in the region, and this is a good thing. I also wonder about this increase in compulsory school age as a miraculous measure. Do the Social Democrats really think that there is no need for reform, but that raising the compulsory school age is enough? I believe that a reform of vocational training is needed and that all attention should now be focused on it. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: is this reform of vocational education and training really on schedule, and how could we parliamentarians be more supportive of its implementation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u13	Mr President! It is also the important message to that field of vocational education and training that Parliament too should look ahead now and focus on making vocational education and training reform as good as possible. I also got a lot of good things to do in yesterday's debate here, and the reform of vocational education and training is progressing as planned. It is at this stage when translation is already being carried out, at that final stage of the legislative review. So very soon it will be possible to discuss it also in this Chamber. It contains a number of good reforms and improvements to move forward. This is also a theme of exclusion: it is a big thing to reduce suspensions. The second is the changing skills needs of the future, which we need to be more flexible in responding to. Vocational education serves a wide range of needs, considering that there are young people who come directly from primary school with very different objectives, and there are also many who need more support for their learning. Then on the other hand, there are low-level changers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u14	I would ask that we stick to the one-minute response time so that as many questions as possible can be taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u15	Mr President! What did the conversation last night say? Mr Grahn-Laasonen said that he was concerned about the lack of local education. [Department : All concerned! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u16	Mr President! Yes, I am concerned about the reduced hours in vocational education and training, and when we looked at this in the preparation of civil servants, it was precisely those hours in local education that started to decline at a time when the funding of vocational education and training increased. I asked you in yesterday's debate where the money went. The purpose of the vocational education reform, which will soon come to Parliament, is to provide training providers with new tools to carry out vocational training so that a greater proportion of the funding can be channelled into this particular education to support students. The key idea of reform is that when a student comes to vocational education, he will be made a personal plan to build that learning path when we understand that everyone learns a little differently and needs a different amount of support for that learning path. It is the idea of a knowledge-based system to define the competence objectives and then reach them in each case on its own path defined in the plan,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u17	Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training is, of course, a good thing, but it is not a good thing to reform in such a way that the money is taken and then reform is carried out. The question is: How and by what funding does the government guarantee the starting places for vocational education and the adequate amount of local education in the whole of Finland? Is it intended to leave responsibility for organising vocational education and training on the shoulders of the various regions and to see what happens next, or will the government, through its own decisions, ensure in the spending limits debate that no young person will be left without a place of education or adequate contact teaching?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u18	Mr President! We'll do it together. Together with vocational education and training is done. Not only will the Ministry of Education and Culture carry out its steering role — and legislation is currently being implemented together with the field — will also closely monitor that the education guarantee takes place throughout the country, i.e. every person who has completed comprehensive school receives a place of education either from vocational education or from upper secondary school. In other words, the objective cannot be less than that of everyone completing its secondary education, and unfortunately, at the moment, we are far from achieving this objective. Although the education moon works in Finland, it is still a big problem, for example, when vocational education is interrupted, and this reform responds to it with a wide range of measures, some of which I have already listed and one example to mention: it is an increase in workplace learning, which can be a major motivation factor, especially for those who come from comprehensive school and would like to be able to make a practical contribution in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u19	Mr President! It is self-evident that the number of local education is very important, especially for young people who start their first year of vocational education. As the Minister said here and wondered where the increased money was being spent, whether it went to the walls instead of teaching, so we need to ask ourselves how our education money is being spent. We must strive to ensure that the most important part of the money is devoted to the education that is most important for young people. What is also very important is the work we do in primary school classes and the way we get all children and young people involved and find their paths, and the fact that basic skills are strong enough. So I ask the Minister what kind of ideas you have, what can we do more in primary school classes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u20	Mr President! This was a very important point of view. Yes, we must look at this education system, the whole path from early childhood education through preschool to primary school and secondary school and beyond. And there are now new curricula in comprehensive school starting last autumn and they will enter into force gradually. They are currently doing a very good job, basic education for the future and a whole new kind of comprehensive school today. We do have such a challenge, as can be seen in these learning illustrations, that some of the students are very far removed from the goals set in basic education, and we have turned the learning results down. In addition, we have three types of equality challenges: We have a special concern for boys who are easily lost. We need to be able to find solutions to keep the boys involved. Then there are the differences between regions and the growing impact of the socio-economic background. We are trying to meet all these challenges by ensuring that education and training:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u21	President! This is really a major reform that compares with comprehensive school reform, building the polytechnic system [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u22	Mr President! Just as the representative said, Finnish vocational education is also of international interest, and our professional competence in Finland is very admirable. This is visible internationally, and has in fact also opened up new opportunities for our education providers to export education to the world, which, in turn, will make it possible to obtain additional euros for the development of education here in Finland. The strengths of Finnish vocational education and training are not only that quality but also this system, which is built on the fact that we also have strong basic skills, that is, these general skills — mathematics, interaction skills, languages, mother tongues — included in vocational qualifications, and thus we are built on vocational education and training so that it also provides further qualifications for higher education. It is a key attraction factor for Finnish vocational education and training, and we insist on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u23	Mr President! When I read through the government's draft legislation on vocational education and training, I came across an interesting issue. It introduced systems in different countries, and it is a practice in Denmark for 60% of young people to continue in such an additional class after comprehensive school, note. 60 percent. This is actually from the donkeys to this basic age of compulsory education. I would like to talk about compulsory education myself, because it would be excellent for boys in particular to complete their studies, reading, writing, mathematics and at the same time mature to make that choice between vocational education and upper secondary school. I see this increase in compulsory school age against this background, and that is why Professor Juho Saari and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u24	Mr President! The starting point, of course, is that we need to be able to strengthen comprehensive school and that everyone achieves those primary school goals already there during comprehensive school. It is precisely these boys' problems that we need to be able to pay particular attention to, because we see that we have one of the biggest learning differences between girls and boys in Finland in the OECD countries. We also have preparatory education in Finland, we have so-called tenth grade classes, and these are good ways of offering paths to those who have not achieved these goals, and that may also give us a year of time to improve results and improve learning, and then perhaps grow up and get them to move to the next level of education. I consider them to be good alternatives, and I am also absolutely prepared to look at how they can be strengthened in order to give more opportunities to young people. But the starting point must be that this whole training path would guarantee learning, and vocational education and training reform that knowledge-based approach
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u25	Let us turn to the following question: Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u26	Mr President! The government’s education cutter has also been hit hard by early childhood education. Fortunately, the opposition has led the government to withdraw some of its bad decisions. The last time the government withdrew from early childhood education cuts after I raised the matter with a written question, a week ago we discussed these plans here during the oral Question Time. Replacement of early childhood education with part of club activities would have meant scrapping the quality of early childhood education. At its worst, the day would have been broken in three parts: in the morning the child would have been in the club, then in preschool and in the afternoon again in the club. This would have weakened the achievement of the objectives of the early childhood education law and it is very good that the government withdrew from this plan. My concern, however, is whether the savings target of EUR 25 million for early childhood education will be:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u27	Mr President! When legislation is adopted, only solutions can be found that guarantee the safety of children. Similarly, a model cannot be built where a child is bounced from one place to another many times during the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u32	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u33	Mr President! We have heard once again that the Minister of Education refuses to answer the question put directly to him. It is quite clear that you cannot put forward proposals which destroy the quality and objectives of early childhood education, but you did not answer the question I put directly to you: Where are you going to target these savings of EUR 25 million, which are obviously still going to be maintained? What are you going to do again if you cut off your education? Please answer directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u34	Mr President! The government's getting ready for a midwayer, and we're gonna have a big break there. We must stick to the objective of balancing public finances, which is essentially accompanied by the EUR 4 billion savings programme that has already been agreed in the Government Programme negotiations. We're gonna make sure this whole class stays. However, if there is something like this that cannot be done, then care must be taken to ensure that the whole is preserved. But now you do not want to get up next and say that it means some new savings in early childhood education, because we take care of the whole. We insist that debt can be broken as a whole, as defined by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u35	Mr President! First of all, I think it is important that you have taken a strong stance, Prime Minister, to increase Finnish competitiveness by raising the employment rate. But after that, after this solemn talk, these acts are in some way still rusty. I wonder why it is not stated in what way, for example, this early childhood education could go forward. Now that we know that, due to the deep pressure of the opposition and the concerns of experts, Minister Grahn-Laasonen has come to the only correct conclusion, namely that this club activity will not be extended to the whole field in the name of a bit of standards, we do not know what this savings will be made from. I think it would be fair for you to tell me where it is being carried out. Yesterday we did not know whether there was a cut in vocational training of 190 million, 260 million or perhaps more than 300 million after the spending limits line. Now it's important that we know,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u36	Mr President! The questioner had a long introduction which criticised the failure of employment measures. Last season, 100,000 new unemployed. There has been a turning point this season. The trend of the long-term unemployed has also started to decline. We have just received preliminary figures on central government finances, with the deficit in public finances falling from 5.7 billion to around 4.1 billion. For a long time, the deficit ratio to GDP is below 2%. Unemployment is decreasing all the time. The employment rate is rising. The government is constantly taking steps to strengthen this good trend, which has now been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u37	Mr President! The government has made it possible to weaken early childhood education by interfering with subjective day care law, and you have also allowed larger groups for children who have reached the age of three. Early childhood education is, of course, a very important theme now in municipal elections and municipalities, as it remains the responsibility of municipalities in the future. In view of these weakenings, which the government has made possible, I wonder when the government is going to assess these weakenings, what has happened in the de facto field in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u38	Mr President! Evaluation and monitoring are, as it were, part of day-to-day work and good preparation. As far as early childhood education is concerned, it is quite true that savings have also been made, but I would also like to point out that this month, among other things, we are calculating early childhood education fees, which is precisely what makes the daily lives of families with low incomes, single-parent families very much easier. Similarly, early childhood education is becoming the basis for early childhood education plans, the first, as it were, of its own curricula for early childhood education. It's a big change. For the first time in early childhood education, we have a development fund that can be used to make various fine development projects that can improve the quality of early childhood education. The number of university-educated kindergarten teachers has been increased, and so on. In other words, these development activities are being carried out all the time, and at the moment three rapporteurs are working on their work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u39	Mr President! These development activities, as described by the Minister, such as the early childhood education curriculum, are in themselves great things,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u44	Mr President! Every child in Finland is entitled to at least 20 hours of pedagogically strong, high-quality early childhood education and its content has been very much developed in recent years. In international comparison, Finnish early childhood education is also exemplary, and our group sizes are reasonable compared to the international level. But I am well aware that it will be a lot of feedback from families and that everyday life will also be hard for early childhood education professionals, and it is precisely through the provision of staff skills and training opportunities that we must support it. The basis for early childhood education plans is one big step in developing the quality of early childhood education. When asked about families and parents, they very much appreciate this service, that is, early childhood education is one of the public services that becomes very good feedback from customers, i.e. families and also children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u45	Mr President! The fact is that the government has severely undermined the right of children to early childhood education and day care and by increasing group sizes has made it more difficult for them to take care of day care and for kindergarten teachers and carers to provide support for the very children most in need. Many municipalities have rejected these cuts when it has been established that the limitation of the right to day care would only cause more problems and would not generate financial savings. But in the municipalities where these cuts have been made, it has weakened the position of many families and the very children most in need of support. Now the government should assess its own mistakes, correct these issues, increase funding for early childhood education and restore smaller groups. Instead, you are planning additional cuts of EUR 25 million for preschoolers. This debate has shown that this operation has not been removed. The Minister of Education has little to do with Hesar's journalist and said that a certain method of implementation is not being done. But now I would like to hear the answer from the Prime Minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u46	Well, this question is answered by the Minister of Finance Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u47	Mr President! I repeat that the government is sticking to its economic programme, the big fiscal consolidation plan that we have. With regard to this savings target, which has come in the negotiations on the Government Programme, it is both very difficult to make it work and it is also questionable whether it will have positive effects. Like this. That is why this is a normal process between the ministries and the Ministry of Finance, and then finally in the middle row, and then when we make decisions, we take care of our economic programme, that is the most important thing about this. And if there's someone inside who's changing, let's get alternative targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u48	Let us turn to the following question: Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u49	Mr President! Today I visited Myllypuro in the bread line to meet people and talked to many [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u50	Mr President! The question of the price of living where there is a shortage of housing is extremely topical, and Mr Arhinmäki well described that situation, that is, if living takes up most of the income, then live there. Well, the situation in housing markets, the fact that there is much less supply than demand, has led to this, and unfortunately during the last parliamentary term that construction went downhill. Now the Government’s top project is to increase housing construction, and in two years compared to 2014, i.e. from then to 2016, the number of start-ups in housing construction has increased by one and a half times, i.e. results are generated. But more housing is needed and the affordable housing is also needed, and that is why I have also started this long-term reform of interest subsidies to make it a re-attractive tool for housing production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u51	Now is the opportunity to press the V button to ask for further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u52	Mr President! Last year, the state had to pay some EUR 2 billion in housing subsidies, which is far too much. This is influenced by the fact that, for example, SATO and VVO, which have previously acted as an operator of general interest, have completely moved away and unduly raised rents. A large part of the rent paid to SATO still flows to foreign venture investors. [Department : Where else? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u53	Mr President! Of course, housing aid is provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but the concern that housing allowance expenditure has increased is our common concern, because taxpayers ultimately pay that housing allowance, which unfortunately rarely remains in the interests of the resident, but then goes to the landlord, as the questioner described here. In particular, those rents for small dwellings have risen. Why has this happened?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u56	Mr President! It is very good that these measures have been taken to provide affordable housing. On the other hand, while the EUR 1.8 billion in housing aid goes and housing is supported — as much as 300 million in affordable housing — VVO is making a net contribution of 50 million in dividends. And in the previous year it distributed 100 million dividends to trade unions mainly, which are these owners. Minister, you have also done a great deal to reduce homelessness. Finland is probably the only country in Europe where this has happened last year. Could you also tell the Finnish citizens about these activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u57	Mr President! In the fight against homelessness, Finland has certainly done well: the only country where homelessness decreased. At this point, we can be happy together with the opposition, because there is a long-term work to combat homelessness in Finland and a housing-first approach was introduced, where people first want to provide housing and then, together with social workers, to see if that life can be put on track anyway, if there is a need to repair it, and this has been the same work done with previous government parties. On the other hand, we have brought something new: when many times homelessness begins, for example, when a young person, after falling into short-term debt, receives no insurance, can't rent a dwelling, so here we are going to reform, and together with some insurance companies, we are now offering such assurances that, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u58	Mr President! Indeed, nothing has been done to reduce the rent level, as was said here. On the contrary, the government's actions have been such as to raise the overall rent level. Already, rents in the capital region have risen by 30 per cent, while in the rest of the country by 18 per cent. One would have imagined that this would have meant that the inputs that society has to make to housing policy would be used specifically for housing production, which is cost-effective, where all the aid goes to the tenant and does not go anywhere else. I would now like to ask the Minister: how do you ensure that all the social support that is being directed towards housing production actually goes to the tenant?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u59	Mr President! The argument that the government has done nothing to curb the increase in rents is wrong. That's the wrong argument. The rent level is determined mainly by demand and supply. So when after the previous government was down to the bottom, it is no wonder that the rents have risen. Now the direction has been reversed: more homes are being produced and it helps to keep the rents from rising at such a fast pace. In addition, in this subsidised housing production, this government carried out a previously planned matter: putting a stop to the rent increases. Limit how much rent can be raised in subsidised housing production — it is done. For example, we have increased the start-up grants for student housing, which is a housing of general interest. Here are a few actions for the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u60	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen and the government have done a good job in the housing sector. We have more new apartments and houses to build than in a long time. Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen. However, for example, we should further streamline planning in the direction of e.g. rolling planning and seek flexibility in construction, lightening and harmonising construction regulations. For example, Minister Orpo's suggestion that a late permit has been accepted could be a reason and a strong incentive for them to arrive on time. We've got billions of projects waiting for warrants. The cost of construction plays a major role in the cost of living, and I would ask, Minister Tiilikainen, you and the whole government: while there is still half of the government's term, could we take another round of deregulation into this building so that we can get more buses for construction?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u61	Mr President! The idea put forward by Mr Heinonen is a good one, that is to say, that the dismantling of standards, which is one of the government's leading projects in the reform of operating practices, is continuous and must be continued. We cannot stop and say that we have now dismantled 300 standards and that is where we are, but there is still a parliamentary term, and we must continue to dismantle standards. For example, building regulations are constantly being reformed, and that is where the demolition work that can reduce the cost of construction is carried out, and it is hoped that this cost benefit will go all the way to the citizen. In order to streamline planning, to which the representative referred, I am very pleased that Parliament has dealt swiftly with the reform of the Land Use and Building Act which I brought here to Parliament. This will speed up, for example, in-service construction. As the formula procedures can be speeded up, it will be faster to hit the ground and housing will be created. We need homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u62	Värderade Talman! The debate on the price of construction is an important debate. It is, of course, partly related to the planning reserve that there are enough plotted plots, but when you ask the builders, many people bring up the parking requirements, i.e. that it is easy not to sell part of it, so that they burden the housing company's balance sheet, or that part of the price is granulated on the prices of the dwellings, so that those who do not need it will pay for it in practice. I would ask the Minister: would it be possible to impose an obligation to build only 50 % of the places required by the formula immediately, even if they were not to burden the price of the dwellings, or by some other mechanism, and then the other half would be allocated in the formula to another plot where the outside company would then build at the point when the demand is in the need of the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u63	Mr President! Where public transport operates and there is easy access to the bus or rails, the need for your own car is certainly not so great that everyone needs so many of these parking spaces. When the government is considering this reform of the Land Use and Building Act, we are also considering this issue, but in fact the requirements for parking and the need for parking places are the decision-making powers of the municipalities. And when the government’s goal is not to increase standards but to reduce them, we did not want to leave the municipal affairs to decide and advise at this point, but we trust that municipalities will make sensible decisions based on local knowledge. Where public transport works, there is no need for so many parking places, and this is in the hands of the municipalities. I hope that municipal decision-makers will take this into account when making their zoning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u64	Mr President! After all, the capital region is now planning as if it were the last day. At the moment, at the rate of 7,000 homes are being completed in Helsinki — a rise of 5,000 has been achieved. During the previous government board, a land use and transport infrastructure solution was made in which the government committed itself to certain transport and infrastructure solutions and municipalities undertook to plan housing. With these coals, Mr Tiilikainen is now able to warm up. I would now like to ask: what makes this price level lower? You mentioned that it would be planned now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u65	Mr President! Yes, the coals of the previous government were sadly cold, so that not much heat could be gained by blowing into it. [Windhunter call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u66	Mr President! It is a positive thing that this year it appears that some 38,000 dwellings will be completed instead of the normal 30,000. But according to experts, it is not due to the actions of this current government, but is very much market-driven. Market-driven? Why? Rent income is a good way to get rich. International funds, investors, institutional investors are interested in it. It is a question of supply-demand mismatch. How will the government now ensure that this supply will continue? Already there are indications that some are beginning to doubt the return of its large money with those high rents and may even stop the planned construction sites so that the imbalance between supply and demand remains tight enough and the rents are high enough. And you did not answer Mr Arhinmäki's question as to whether the rental brake should be used to block these constantly rising rents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u67	Mr President! There are a number of ways to keep the volume of that construction adequate to ensure that housing is completed so that the market does not become more balanced and the rent does not rise. One way is to speed up planning and licensing. As I have said, we have already made some improvements to this in order to speed up the planning process and, for example, to speed up the construction process. Another means is to make state-subsidised rental housing production more attractive. We have created a new short model of interest rate support, which has attracted a great deal of interest. [Riitta Myller’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u68	We still have time to take a few more questions briefly. Congressman Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u69	Värderade Talman! Den Senaste tiden har det diskuterats ganska mycket om annat ministrar och behovet att öka annat ministrar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u70	Mr President! The government has an appropriate number of ministers, 14 is an appropriate number. Now, since September, we have been discussing the excessive workload of one minister, and we must, of course, respond to it. Even then, in September, we opened the debate and accepted the principle that, if necessary, we could increase the number of ministers from one to three, but only because the workload of one minister was considered too high. This debate will then take its decision in the mid-term debate in which the final decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u71	Next question: Mr Ruoho.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u72	Mr President! Finland will be 100 years old this year, the first parliamentary elections will be 110 years today, and the municipal elections will be held in April — we are living in the centenary of Finnish democracy. A functioning democracy needs people who are interested in social influence. Even harsh criticism is part of a politician's work, but sadly many are also familiar with being threatened or slandered. For example, no one’s desire to participate in the decision-making process of his municipality must be undermined because he fears that he will be subjected to illegal threats. The attempt to suppress legitimate political action by threatening it is reprehensible and threatens Finnish democracy. What does the government intend to do to secure the municipal elections free of threats and to intervene in the threats that politicians have already experienced?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u73	Mr President! That's a very good question. Yes, we are celebrating the anniversary of independence and we can be proud of it. We now also have municipal elections, so again we can rejoice that we have a democratic society, and that must also be safeguarded. This, which the representative raised, certainly affects many of us, and that is not a good thing. Threatening is always reprehensible, as is hate speech, because hate speech is a very short distance from violence. All of them are reprehensible. How do you solve them? Surely everyone can influence it too. But above all, if you consider what the Ministry of the Interior sector can do, we have given the police more resources to what you decided here in Parliament when you made the budget: online surveillance, but also to eradicate hate speech. We are doing everything we can to eradicate this, but of course there are always things that happen at the local level and which the police may not be able to deal with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u74	Next question: Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u75	Mr President! Unemployment and exclusion are the most serious problems in our country. A serious example of this is that we have about 80,000 men of working age permanently outside the labour market. It is good that the government worked to tackle these problems, but new, effective means are needed. The participation income recommended by Professor Hiilamo's working group is a recent means of preventing exclusion and long-term unemployment. With that inclusive social security system, the unemployed would have the opportunity not only to seek employment but also to find a suitable way to participate in society. The unemployed could choose their own way of promoting their skills and employment. My question is: how does the government intend to promote inclusive social security, and would this income from participation not be a good way to prevent the exclusion of young people? Minister Lindström is not here, but could the Prime Minister, for example, answer this question?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u76	Mr President! The Government is preparing for its mid-term debate, which aims to find concrete ways of better employment. Secondly, with regard to the last parliamentary term, we can thank the previous government for the fact that we have a so-called'safeguard' for unemployment benefit and housing support, which allows you to do small-scale work, EUR 300 per month. This is one example of the fact that the border fence between work and unemployment has been lowered. This Professor Hiilamo's presentation is one of the concrete presentations of a policy where there is the possibility of finding such a border fence to lower the activity between unemployment and work, and the government has several options on its table to try to lower these employment thresholds. There's one way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u77	We will take one more question: Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u78	Mr President! Project leader of the Sote reform Tuomas Pöysti has told us that the laws on freedom of choice reform currently in the consultation will be changed and changed even though the consultation is still ongoing. This is of course good news because there has been a lot of criticism from experts and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. For example, the realisation of equality between different regions, as well as the problems of timetables in the order in which they are implemented, has come up and has also been raised here in last week's debate on social security. I ask you, Minister Ruhula: What changes are now planned, and how will statements be taken into account? Is a new consultation in the run-up to this consultation, if significant changes are already being made?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u79	Mr President! The process of preparing legislation, even if there is a bigger issue, must be kept as normal as possible. In this context, there is a consultation which ends on 28 March in the area of freedom of choice legislation. Opinions have begun to come, are currently being read in order to keep a tight timetable in itself but, on the other hand, to make possible changes that may arise from the consultation. The basic solution on which the freedom of choice legislation is on the path is the one that will move forward. What will happen in the next few weeks, in the coming months: the day will come when the government will submit its proposal to Parliament, and then we will see what is the whole package in which freedom of choice will be implemented in Finland from the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u80	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2017 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected. The general debate on this issue begins. Chairman of the committee, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u84	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Haatainen, presented the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to the citizens' initiative. The report was well-founded as to why the change in the employment pension index so that it only follows the development of earnings is not a sustainable solution. These criteria include, in particular, ensuring the financial sustainability of the system, fairness between generations, a fair relationship of payments to the pension received, trust and reducing the challenges to the sustainability of public finances. The committee's report also shares the concerns expressed in the citizens' initiative regarding the status of pensioners with the lowest occupational pensions. According to the report, the most effective way to improve the position of the most vulnerable pensioners is to increase the national pension or guarantee pension, since smaller pensions are not revised by the index of employment but by the national pension. The report also states that the change in the index would increase the size of large pensions more significantly, while the situation of those receiving a small pension will be improved more effectively by other measures, such as ensuring that social and health care charges, medicines and travel expenses are reasonable and adequate housing support. Mr President! We share the committee's view that an index change is not a viable solution for improving the position of low-income pensioners, but we have protested because we believe that the report does not adequately address pensioner poverty and the livelihood of low-income pensioners. We therefore made a statement, an impetus in which Parliament would require a programme of measures from the government to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. However, this was not shared by the government parties. That is why we have lodged an objection on this matter, which I shall now present. Mr President! Poverty and low income for pensioners must be recognised, and solutions are needed to facilitate the position of pensioners in order to secure a reasonable income. We call for an action programme to be drawn up quickly by the government to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. It is regrettable that the government parties could not agree with this view. It is also regrettable for the people who signed the citizens' initiative, who, through their determined work, managed to raise the income of poor pensioners and pensioners receiving a small pension to a strong public debate. It is also regrettable for all those low-income pensioners who have expected more from this parliamentary debate on the citizens' initiative. Therefore, while an index change under the citizens' initiative is not a solution to the livelihood of low-income pensioners, we believe it is very important that we consider ways and can take joint decisions to facilitate the daily livelihood of low-income pensioners. Mr President! The income of pensioners varies greatly according to individual life situations. For many pensioners, a guarantee pension or national pension or a small earnings-related pension is not sufficient to secure daily income. People also need housing allowance and even income support to pay for daily living, housing, service fees, medicines and so on. Pensioners also have to compromise their spending a lot and wonder whether, for example, medicines that cannot be replaced can be bought at all. There are also many pensioners in bread lines. In January, while this citizens' initiative was still waiting for the reading of Parliament, the Finnish Centre for Pensions published a study entitled Pensions and Pensioners' Income 1995-2015. The main news from the survey was that the income of pensioners has developed positively over the last 20 years. This is indeed true when we look at statistics and compare averages — a fine thing. [EeroHeinäluoto] Mr President! The daily income of pensioners is made up of a whole, including pension and other income, other benefits, taxation, various contributions and services. Income can be influenced by political decisions. In 2016, benefits linked to the pension index decreased by 0.4 per cent due to the minus-mark index. The Social Democrats' alternative budget required the national pension index to be frozen in order not to reduce the level of benefits. In this year's budget, the government continued to cut benefits linked to the National Pensions Index by 0.85% and frozen the National Pensions Index to this lower level until 2019. The Social Democrats also proposed cancelling these cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u93	We will take the floor again, and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u94	Mr President! The folded index introduced as a panic solution was only supposed to be a temporary solution, but here we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u97	It is now possible to use the replies that are reserved with the V button and they will start with Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u98	Mr President! The committee fully agreed that this citizens' initiative before us is not justified in order to improve the situation of low-income pensioners, not from the point of view of future generations and justice, nor from the point of view of the sustainability of the pension system. We were in complete agreement. We also fully agreed on the need for other means of facilitating the situation of low-income pensioners. But we disagreed as to whether, as the opposition said, the programme should be carried out, or whether it should be done as the government is doing, that is to say, that action should be taken to improve the situation of low-income pensioners. The guarantee pension has been increased, it will also be increased next year. Has the SDP been raising the guarantee pension? What has also been done: the minimum fees for family and family carers have been increased and their support services and the right to leave have been improved. This work must be carried out with tenacity. The government must take action to get us out of retirement poverty and improve care services for the elderly. That is not enough for the opposition's programmes alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u99	Mr President! It is quite true that we were in complete agreement that the employment pension index should not be changed, and I think that we also had a very constructive and good debate on pensioner poverty. For these very reasons, we were very sorry that the government did not have the will to go into the operational programme, because it would have been a natural consequence of all that discussion and doing — we discussed that together, with the strength of the Parliament, we would have called for a reduction in pensioner poverty and the livelihood of people receiving a small pension. This would have been a strong will from the Parliament if it had left in a united way, but unfortunately this did not happen now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u100	Mr President! It has become clear here that the citizens' initiative was not the right instrument, something that would have benefited pensioners on low incomes, especially those women who have taken care of the home and whose incomes and working hours have been low. They're typical pension-poor people. The Government has taken measures to increase the guarantee pension and to reduce pensioner poverty through various other forms of support. The government will continue to work in this direction so that the specific aim of this proposal is to prevent poverty among low-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u101	Mr President! The objective of this citizens' initiative to improve the financial position of low-income pensioners is a good one, and I think it is very important that we discuss it here. After all, the citizens' initiative works at its best to stimulate social debate and raise different issues. Indeed, this initiative was thoroughly discussed in committee, as has been said here, and the experts have been widely consulted. The objective is very good, but it is the wrong way. Restoring the employment pension index to the wage level index will not benefit the lowest-income and most vulnerable pensioners. On the other hand, there would be effective ways of addressing pensioner poverty immediately, such as an increase in the level of national pensions and guaranteed pensions, and the abolition of central health contributions would also be one way of alleviating the plight of low-income pensioners. However, it is somewhat confusing that, when we have been in agreement in committee on this matter, there is concern
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u102	Mr President! Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed. The government should therefore start preparing a programme to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners immediately and cancel the decisions that have been taken to reduce the livelihoods of older people, which have been accumulated quite a lot. After all, this year the government cut its national pension index by 0.85% and has also frozen this index for the next three years. This is precisely the case for those smallest benefits, including national pensions. Indeed, as early as last year, benefits fell by 0.4 per cent when the national pension index went down and now that you have still frozen the index for the next three years, even if prices go up, the position of pensioners is getting weaker or worse. I really wonder why such a statement by the opposition to tackle pensioner poverty cannot be made. I think that would really be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u103	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative, because this is a very important issue, but in the case of a folded index, it would not improve for these very small pensioners. In other words, the guarantee pension has been increased, and the Finns have done a lot of work in the government to raise it even a little. National pension should be increased. Small employment pensions are far too small. I was wondering whether it might be possible to make a statement on how the mid-term index, 50-50, would affect pension funds and the pension system in general. Would it even be possible to think about it, at least make a statement? I am also surprised that when Lipponen’s government introduced this folded index, why have the parties that have been in this government for 20 years not intervened in this at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u104	Mr President! Pension poverty is an issue which, of course, needs to be resolved. If that is what this citizens' initiative was trying to do, it will not succeed, as the committee's opinion will make very clear. I also believe that any such index changes will not be the solution if they only raise the largest pensions and leave the lowest pensions so small that those increases will not help there. I myself have followed these contributions from the background that I have paid occupational pensions from the beginning of the 1980s and, if you think of the history — that it started in the 1960s when 5% of the employer's earnings-related pension contributions were collected, and then in the 1980s when I started it was 11%, and now it has risen to 20% for the employer and employee to just under 5% — it shows that it has hit on this Finnish job. So I wouldn't recommend an index change that would raise the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u105	Mr President! This is a very interesting question, which is why these earnings-related pension contributions have been constantly increased and increased as the output of large funds could have been slightly increased and not increased. There are a number of these questions that have not been answered. It is good to remember that if the folded index had not come when it came, we would not have so many pensioners poor today. Regarding the sustainability of this system for this mid-term index: As I said there, the Finnish Centre for Pensions has also made calculations in relation to the mid-term index, but they have not been published very widely. And as Dr. Olli Pusa wrote in his statement, the mid-term index as a long-term average would in no way jeopardise the financing of private sector occupational pensions. The number of pension funds would increase and remain at almost the current level of pension expenditure. The situation in the public sector is also similar. So there are already figures available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u106	Mr President! First of all, it is worth saying that here former MP Kimmo Kiljunen and hundreds and thousands of other people have done the necessary and necessary work. I very much regret the fact that the Centre for Pensions, which I highly appreciate, when it spoke about its own research into the development of income in pensioner households, was a serious source of miscalculation and misinterpretation. After all, they first said in their press release that the income of pensioners' households has developed positively. It was based on the fact that in the last few years, people with higher incomes and longer pension contributions have become increasingly retired. Then the development of capital income was taken into account. This observation does not correspond to the reality of the people with these EUR 1000 occupational pensions, a little on top, a little under, and it has provoked a lot of bitterness. I am therefore pleased that the committee has raised this problem, but I am disappointed that nothing is being done about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u107	Mr President! The committee has done some serious work on this citizens' initiative. As has been pointed out in this debate, this is an important issue, but the poverty of the most low-income pensioners cannot be addressed by this folded index, but, on the contrary, it would improve the situation of middle-income and high-income pensioners. Of course, it is not wrong either, but our concern is how to ease the situation of the least-incomed. It has always been important for the city centre to improve basic security. In due course, the national pension was created in this country, and it has been possible to increase the guarantee pension twice. And when a competitiveness pact was concluded and it was also opposed to tax reductions, the government made sure that the taxation of pensioners was also reduced. Now that the opposition is slandering this freezing of indices, I must remind you that I think we have found the same freezing of indexes in all of your electoral programs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u108	Mr President! The committee has unanimously taken a responsible position and is proposing to reject this initiative. As the chairman of the committee said, it would be of the greatest benefit to the highest-income pensioners. I also believe that the impetus proposed and supported by the opposition party representatives in the committee for an action programme to reduce pensioner poverty is justified. I would like to say to Mr Tanus when he claimed that no decision will be considered and counted 50 years from now, that, for example, decisions on climate protection will be considered and will have to be considered in the longer term. And it is not up to any matter which can be calculated over several decades to base decisions now on wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u109	Mr President! The citizens' initiative raises important issues and the committee has adopted a responsible and sustainable position on this initiative in its report. Against this background and consensus, it is somewhat difficult to understand this objection made by the SDP and the rest of the opposition, because the committee notes that these problems exist. The committee also points out a number of very concrete ways of remedying these problems. So what is there to find out? Is it absolutely necessary to copy the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party Assembly on this issue as it stands and simply change the government instead of the party government? Does that make any sense at the end of the day? Rather, I would like to see proposals that take the money sustainably to correct these already known shortcomings by means already known.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u110	Mr President! It is true that the Social Democrats are now actually saving this citizens' initiative. Our protest, thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, is an excellent position on this pensioner poverty, and there is also a desire to take on the status of those receiving a small pension. In my opinion, we have almost 900,000 people who receive a small pension who deserve better. In my speech, I will be the first to present this model that offsets the income differentials of the Pensioners' Confederation, which would certainly improve the position of those receiving a small pension and would be mutually supportive in terms of income development. If it wasn't for this demo thing, this would be a lifeless and poor story.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u111	Mr President! The Finnish pension system has always been developed in a very responsible way and has taken care of this intergenerational pension promise. If this index were to be changed now, it would mean that the pension promise made to young people would be betrayed at the same time. We therefore need other means than restoring the index if and when we want to put in place the correction of the level of these smaller pensions, and this is also the issue of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u112	Mr President! There are many levels of justice that are needed. It is needed among the income groups, and the authors of the initiative have been right to seek to secure the income level of pensioners, to monitor the income level of employees, but the comparisons are always averages and are confused, among other things, by the fact that, at present, some 400,000 employees are without wage income due to unemployment, and we always have a lot of unemployment. Fairness must then be sought among the income groups and, quite rightly, the report, but above all the protest, has drawn attention to the issue of pensioner poverty. If 200,000 pensioners are below the poverty line defined by the EU, that is a real problem. Of course, the central solidarity of the generations is also at stake when we talk about this pension index and pension policy. That is why I believe that this objection best responds to all three challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u113	Mr President! Just as this report states, a change in the index would significantly increase large pensions. In the short term, the change in the employment pension index would have no sayable effects for those receiving a small earnings-related pension. Just as this report rightly states, it is a fact. I am very surprised that many demersals here have spoken out loud about the fact that this problem should now be resolved. For little pensioners, this job is of no use. The great will benefit. When I have been around the municipal election campaign in many, many places lately, people have been disappointed when they are only now finding out that it does not affect small pensions. The same goes for the desk. They're complaining about small pensions. How do those little pensions come about? With low-paid people, income policy always agrees on a percentage basis, high-paid people benefit most, low-paid people get little. That's where the core of the whole system is. The Demars here complain loudly to us that when this is our fault and our fault. At the house table, if you would bear the side of that low-paying person,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u114	Mr President! I think this citizens' initiative is valuable and important, and I think it is very important that we can improve the status of people receiving a small pension and a national pension. The purchasing power of pensioners must be safeguarded. It is now the case, ladies and gentlemen, that according to the data service's calculations, even this year, the purchasing power of low- and medium-income pensioners will be reduced. Purchasing power is dropping. That is why it was very unfortunate that the government parties now finally turned their backs on the small pensioners when they did not accept this important Social Democrats proposal. And I was very surprised to see that today there has been an announcement from the members of the Committee of Government who said that the assessment of the financial situation of pensioners would in future become part of the budget proposal. Well, that's a good show! The Social Democrats have wanted these to be evaluated in this way, but if the government had now done so and had done so, the government parties, for example, would certainly have supported it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u115	Mr President! What pain and cry is there for the opposition when we agree! Can't you say that we agree now? This initiative was not the answer for low-income pensioners. Can you not admit that we agreed with the report, which contains black and white, that other measures must address the issue of low-income pensioners? But when you are going to do analysis and analysis — the government has already done so. We know there are low-income pensioners. That is why we have increased the guarantee pension, which is why we will increase it next year, which is important to us. We no longer need clarification; perhaps it has been unclear to you. We want to act. It is good that support for informal care is developed, family carers are supported, care services are provided. And what is important to us is that the Ministry of Finance has taken action, that in the future there will be an assessment of how all the budgetary measures will affect pensioners, for example. This will allow us to better deal with the budget. This job is going on. You may have figured it out, but it wasn't moved forward. When will you be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u116	Mr President! This concern for the citizens' initiative is justified and I therefore support the proposal for a statement of objection 1. When drawing up the operational programme referred to in the statement, all possible options can be examined in depth and comprehensively. Congressman Sarkomaa called for action here. Well, the government has done things, but the government's actions have increased pensioner poverty. The freezing of the pension index, the increase in service charges, the weakening of medical and travel allowances are all acts that have weakened the situation of low-income pensioners. The small increase in the guarantee pension, which has now been greatly acclaimed on behalf of the government, has been taken up very quickly by these government savings decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u117	Mr President! Even in the context of the referral debate, there was a strong consensus in this Chamber on two points: The first was that in these pension issues the right of the generations will be realised, and this committee's report does very well to say so. Thank you to the committee for that. Another consensus was that there was a desire to tackle pensioner poverty on a broad front. That is why it is now surprising that when the opposition proposes to create a programme of measures to tackle pensioner poverty here and now, this is not good enough for the government. When there was a strong consensus in the whole room, on every side of the debate, that this pensioner poverty should now be tackled, and the opposition is proposing a programme of measures, why is this not happening to the government? Are there only reasons behind this that you cannot agree with the opposition?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u118	Mr President! This citizens' initiative stems from the frustration that many pensioners feel. Kimmo Kiljunen is a skilled speaker, and the title of his book is addressed as "the broken self-esteem of the living." After all, older people feel that society treats them only as a burden and an expense and does not value experience, so this index requirement is not just about money, it is about treating pensioners not as full citizens, with whom they are consulted and respected. Here, a social attitude requires correction. Solidarity between generations is particularly valuable in Finland. No age group thinks best of its own interests, but always of its future knees. So older people help their children and grandchildren, and we in work have agreed to weaken our own pension benefits in order to ease the future sustainability gap. Let this debate, instead of confrontation, remain a strong reminder that Finland's special strength is:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u119	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. However, in the opposition, I would also say to the demars that you have talked a lot and asked questions after the mid-term index: there would have been a proposal here, however, which would have made it possible to tackle it in concrete terms, not just to talk about the mid-term index, but to support it. The Finnish Centre for Pensions makes estimates every few years — in practice three years — on various markers and indicators. When we go into this kind of index change, it is obvious, as Dr. Pusa also suggested, that it would be evaluated every few years, perhaps every five to ten years. But as has been said, the Finnish Centre for Pensions automatically imports this estimate every three years. It is important to make rapid changes to pensioner poverty
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u120	Mr President! Pensioner poverty is the thing I would like to discuss. With regard to this index change, I would not go any further than to say that, if it is changed, it automatically increases the pension contributions of employees and employers, and it reduces Finnish work. That is quite clear. According to the Finnish Centre for Pensions, which is now proposed in the citizens' initiative, this increases occupational pension contributions by 6%. When we just did a pension reform last season, which then made it reasonable for this growth not to occur, this would once again break down the employers' pension contributions on the path of growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u121	Mr President! Each elderly person has earned a decent income, well enough for both food and medicine. Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems for which solutions must be found. Of course, the best way to improve the status of the most low-income pensioners is to mention increases in guaranteed pensions and improvements in the level of national pensions, but they alone are not enough. Reducing taxation is also an effective means of improving income, although it does not help the least-incomed. A good way of doing this is also to reduce service charges and caps, improve the level of reimbursement of medicines, develop housing allowance and support for the pensioner. These are exactly the opposite of what the government has done. Here again, there are new reasons why such a program that is lacking in pensioner poverty should be brought about. Then I wonder a little about these cries of the True Finns. We Social Democrats are, of course, implementing the policy that we set out at the convention. So, for example, are the suggestions of the Finns of Peruvian origin rising out of a hat? This is kind of weird. I, for one, respect party democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u122	Allow me to add the following answers: Elomaa, Sarkomaa and Kiljunen. And then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u123	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health raised the issue of measures that would make things easier for pensioners: a reasonable cost of social and health care for small pensioners, a reasonable burden on medicines and travel costs. These are very good things and we really need to think about them. As soon as the economic situation improves even a little — as the light is already visible — these things really need to be put into practice. If you think of the over 80s, then the pension system did not exist, for them there has been little pension or for those who, at the age of 15, went to work and were already working for almost ten years before the pension began to accumulate. I must say that when I read in a set of statistics that 40% of those on bread lines are pensioners, I am quite shocked by this and I think that the government must take this seriously now,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u124	Mr President! It is excellent that this initiative raised the issue of pensioner poverty, which is strongly on the government agenda. We need more action, we don't have enough. It is good that we agree with this initiative and also that action is needed to eliminate this pensioner poverty, that is to say, there is agreement. In particular, I am concerned here in the capital region about the most low-income pensioners, including those receiving a small pension — often women living alone. We have very high housing costs in Helsinki and the service charges will come on. I very much welcome the fact that the government has started the work of providing home care services. They were supposed to come when the Old People Service Act came in. There was then a Social Democratic Minister, that payment law was not made, and now it is very important. It must not be the case that when an elderly person lives at home, the purse is emptied
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u125	Mr President! I myself am also very pleased with this consideration of the citizens' initiative in committee. We carried out a very good and comprehensive study in which we also examined the various index solutions and other options involved in this matter. In that regard, we can probably all be pleased with this, which also gave us a common perspective on this issue. But the other side of this is this programme of measures, in which we actually want to describe the fact that, both during this term of government and in the past, but especially during this period, the poverty of pensioners has increased and the incomes have deteriorated. This has been influenced, among other things, by cuts in the National Pensions Index and increases in service charges and similar factors. It has also contributed to the fact that even if the guarantee pension has been increased, the actual purchasing power will still fall by 2%. It's good to make all those things visible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u126	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u127	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to transform the Employment Pensions Index into a full wage index suggests that pensions fully reflect wage developments. The initiative in itself only concerns occupational pensions and therefore does not, as such, improve the situation of beneficiaries of national pension or guarantee pension. It is a good thing that this matter, which has been raised for a long time, has now been dealt with in detail in Parliament and the possibilities for its implementation have been clarified. Poverty among the elderly is a real problem. Thirteen per cent of pensioners are low incomes, equal to the average for the whole population. However, there is very much poverty among pensioners and most among those living alone. The highest number of low-income pensioners is among persons aged over 75 living alone, of which one in four, 25 per cent, is low-income. Up to 27 per cent of women living alone are low incomes. Statistical data that, on average, the purchasing power of pensioners is slightly higher than the European average or that the income gap between pensioners is lower than the EU average, does not give much comfort to the situation of a low-income pensioner. This year the government has cut the national pension index by 0.85% and has also frozen the index for the next three years. This cut is targeted at the lowest benefits linked to the national pension index, such as national pension and housing allowance for the pensioner. As early as last year, the government allowed the level of benefits to fall by 0.4 per cent as the national pension index went down. The situation will now deteriorate after the government has even frozen the index for the next three years. Thus, even if costs increase, national pensions, for example, do not increase. This cutting from the lowest incomes is unacceptable for us Social Democrats. Poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed. The best way to improve the status of the most low-income pensioners is to increase the guarantee pension and improve the level of national pension. Reducing taxation is also an effective means of improving income, although it does not help the most low incomes. A good way to improve the position of a low-income pensioner is also to reduce service charges and caps, improve the level of medical benefits, develop housing allowance and support for the pensioner — quite the opposite of what the government has done. Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes a significant improvement in the purchasing power of people receiving an occupational pension. According to the Finnish Centre for Pensions survey, labour pensions would increase even faster than the contractual wages of those in employment. The rise in earnings-related pensions faster than contract wages is not likely to be considered appropriate. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore proposes in its report that the initiative be rejected. We Social Democrats agree with the committee's report by the way, but we believe that it does not sufficiently address the issue of pensioners' poverty and the livelihood of low-income pensioners. Poverty and low income for pensioners must be recognised, and solutions are needed to facilitate the position of pensioners in order to secure a reasonable income. As has already been heard here, we Social Democrats will be submitting our own objection to this, in which we make a statement that the government should rapidly draw up a programme of measures to resolve the low income of pensioners and the poverty of pensioners. According to the statement, Parliament would require the Government to draw up a programme of measures quickly to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners. It should pay particular attention to the position of older women and those receiving small occupational pensions. As part of the package, options for raising the level of national pension and changing taxation would also be explored, as well as the impact of housing allowance, services and service charges for pensioners. The programme should be submitted to Parliament in the autumn of this year. Mr President! When considering pension policy, we need to look at it in a long-term perspective, both in history and in the future. All generations receive more pensions than their contributions. Those born in the 1940s receive an occupational pension of about five times the amount they pay themselves, those born in the 1990s — the age group of my own children — receive a double amount. In the 70s, the share of occupational pension contributions was around 5 per cent of salary, compared with nearly 25 per cent today. In the 60s, there were eight times the number of people of working age compared to the number of retirement age, whereas today there are only three times the number of working age, less than twice the number in the future. So our children and their children have a lot of pension responsibilities. It is therefore extremely important that pension funds should then be sufficient. The citizens' initiative is justified by the fact that pension funds would have overfunded future pension liabilities. In recent years, the Finnish Centre for Pensions' projections have been based on a return of 3.5 per cent, but the funds have often produced more, up to 5.2 per cent in 2015. However, there are dark clouds in the sky of pension fund returns. Economists predict that the period of low investment returns will become permanent. Pension funds may not grow as expected. We also examined the dynamic impact of the initiative on the economy, which has been very much called for. There are dynamic effects, but there will soon be a situation in which, however, pension contributions will have to be increased or pensions cut. The same applies to estimates if the employment pension index were to be changed slightly in a more wage-oriented direction, for example to the 70-30 model instead of the current 80-20 model or to the mid-term index. Before long, there would be an increase in pension contributions or a reduction in pensions. We cannot use pension funds rashly, so that they do not become sufficient for pension liabilities, but that future pensions will have to be cut or pension contributions raised briskly. However, the growth of the funds must be monitored and decisions taken accordingly. We must act fairly for both current and future pensioners: if the funds produce more than the estimate, will the pension index be changed in a more wage-oriented direction or will pension contributions be reduced? However, poverty and low income for pensioners are real problems that need to be addressed. Therefore, the government should start drawing up a programme to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners immediately and cancel its decisions, which are so numerous, which undermine the livelihoods of older people. Each elderly person has earned a decent living so that he does not have to worry about whether to buy food or medicine.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u128	The general discussion and the proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after examination of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u129	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. Let's get back to the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u130	Mr President! On the initiative to change the pension index, it was said in committee that it would significantly increase large pensions. The initiative therefore does not improve the position of those receiving smaller pensions. Pensioners who rely mainly on national pensions or guaranteed pensions will not benefit from the initiative at all. Whose interest is it, then? The Committee also notes that the status of pensioners in the most difficult situations will be improved more effectively by raising national pension or guarantee pension. In the view of the Committee, only those receiving a small pension can be improved by, for example, ensuring that customer charges, medicines and travel expenses are reasonable and adequate housing support is provided. In general, as in this citizens' initiative, it is believed that pensioners themselves have paid their pensions. However, this is not exactly the case. Three-quarters of today's pensioners' earnings-related pensions are funded by the earnings-related pension contributions of those who are currently employed or employed. The rest, or one quarter of the pension contributions, are covered by the investment income of pension funds and by the transfer of capital itself to the payment of pensions. The employer's employment pension contribution was in the 60s, at the beginning of the pension, about 5 per cent of the wages and salaries sum. When I myself started as an employer in 83 C.E., I paid an employment pension of around 11 per cent of the wages and salaries of employees. Nothing was inherited from the employee at the time. Almost every year since then, there has been a new increase in payments. Now the employer pays pensions closer to 20% and the employee is charged a round 5%. Those contributions were paid to a greater extent by retired persons at the time and were funded to a lesser extent. This is still the case, as I said earlier. There is little to be done on the basis of funding, even though the funds themselves appear to be large. We need more jobs and more people to work. Mr President! According to the Finnish Centre for Pensions, for example, those born in the 40s — like Kiljunen himself — receive about five times as many pensions as their employers or themselves have actually paid. We already have a significant difference between pensions paid and pensions received between different generations. When the pension system was created, payments were small and apparently people were expected to have a constant life expectancy, a high birth rate and a steady increase in jobs. However, this did not continue. It was agreed that occupational pension contributions would be increased as planned. The intention is good for all parties involved. We must have a fair understanding between generations that decisions affecting pensions are made in a fair and particularly long-term way. Mr President! In terms of competitiveness, there was relief from excessive upward pressure during the last period when it was decided not to allow the earnings-related pension scheme to scrap Finnish work with continuous increases. Instead, it was decided that more work should be done, while life expectancy and retirement periods would increase. If we adopt the citizens' initiative, the Finnish Centre for Pensions would again threaten pension contributions with an increase of more than 6%. In such a situation, the benefits of last season's pension agreements would be wiped out at once. It would be noteworthy that in Finland’s main competitor countries pension contributions are significantly lower or entirely voluntary. Mr President! Pensions are designed to protect old age. They pay for the necessary living standards and consumption of old age. The current earnings-related pension has been agreed in such a way that the indices reasonably secure income. Much worse is the situation for those who do not have a long career behind them. The smallest pensions are for entrepreneurs and for those who receive a national or guaranteed pension. But if there are too many fund contributions from companies and employees, I think it must be returned to those who have paid it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u131	Mr President! Thanks to Kimmo Kiljunen and the citizens' initiative makers. I do see that this outcome is a partial victory for those who take the initiative. Why? Because it brought pensioner poverty and low income into the social debate. Secondly, because, thanks to the Social Democrats, this initiative is also leading to results. Let me be frank: without the protest of the Social Democrats, this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health would have been, and I think it is inanimate and incomplete. I believe that the citizens' initiative will leave a big mark on future pension debates. The last page is still waiting for its author and decision makers. I can see there's one round going on right now. I would have liked the views of Director-General Tarmo Pukkila and the actuarialian Olli Pusa on this transition to the mid-term index to be taken more seriously. I spoke in the referral debate about the fact that I have been talking for years and writing for years about the need to move gradually towards the mid-term index. I have therefore supported the Pensioners' Confederation's view that the transition to the 30-70, 40-60 mid-term index should be gradual. Then it is still about one third of this full wage index, i.e. approximately EUR 100 million, is estimated to have cost implications. Now, in the last quarter of last year, pension companies had a return of EUR 4 billion, which surprised everyone. I say this only because these profit estimates, the percentages of returns, are such a movement of growth and decline, but as Thomas Piketty, who is therefore a future Nobel Prize winner in economics, wrote in his book, these rates of return will probably be at a global level of 3, 4, even 5%, because they are invested in real estate, and we know what the rates of return and expectations are there. [Standard Call] Well, I am pleased that this protest by the Social Democrats has strongly highlighted the situation of those receiving a small pension. Propose coordination between national pension and occupational pension, which can be mitigated. In addition to this, this small amount of earnings-related pension would receive some more national pension. [Call for the Cape]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u134	Madam President! However, this citizens' initiative to restore the employment pension index does not contain much of a view of the overgeneration. In Finland, when we know that the birth rate is low and today the age groups are smaller than the retirement age groups, we cannot support this citizens' initiative on these grounds, even with common sense. It must be remembered that in Finland the pension fund system is part of public finances and is therefore linked to all the sustainability of public finances and to that debate. If we start using pension funds as set out in the initiative, it would, according to the Ministry of Finance, lead to an increase of 1.7 percentage points in the deficit of our public finances. This would lead to savings in public finances. It should also be noted that, as has been pointed out in the debate, the initiative does not, in fact, best deal with the status of the lowest-income pensioners, the status of those who do not have an earnings-related pension but who rely on national and guaranteed pensions, the lowest of all pensions. The city centre has always played a historic role in these basic security subsidies, both in the construction of national pensions and in the construction of guaranteed pensions, after all, by a centre-led government, and it has been raised twice again in a very difficult economic situation. In fact, the citizens' initiative would improve the position of pensioners with high and middle incomes the most, and I am sure that not even the smallest pensioners who were the aim of the initiative. Moreover, it is problematic in terms of intergenerational justice, and the position of low-income pensioners must be improved by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u135	Madam President! There is nothing I can do about it, but I am disturbed by the debate that is taking place here, that on the one hand there is a terrible list of the need to improve the status of pensioners and to take action here and now and then when the SDP presents,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u136	Madam President! In previous speeches, the government has on many occasions reported on the concrete measures taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u139	I have quoted all the requests for answers, and they are all granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u140	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson and Mr Viitanen have been in Parliament since the 1990s and will certainly remember how, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, the index has been folded and the base of the national pension cut and so on, but I always voted against it, and this is the case. In this period, this government has indeed increased the guarantee pension, once more by more than EUR 20 per month. The second raise has been decided and is on its way. During the last parliamentary term, when you were in power, no one was made:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u141	Mr President! This is very interesting if the government parties seriously believe that they are doing a good policy for pensioners in history. You should come to Tammelantori or Hervanta and listen to what the people think and what the pensioners think about the policy of this government. I mentioned that tax differential just now, in complete violation of the electoral promises, the taxation of pensioners was unequaled against the employee. Even if there are increases in the guarantee pension, the calculations indicate that they will be cut off because the indexes will be cut at the same time and the purchasing power will be reduced. Cutbacks have been made for medical expenses, there have been more customer fees. Seriously, even more pensioners are coming to me to tell me what has often been repeated here that you have to choose which of the bargains, the food or the medicines. Here, then, is the historicity of your policy, which you are proud of here, and I find that extraordinary. Yes, you have the opportunity to act here and now. Representative Kankaanniemi, you and your partners, you could sometimes take responsibility for yourself, for yourself to do things, for yourself to do here and now,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u142	Madam President! Indeed, the government has made a policy that has had a positive impact. When Pia Viitanen’s party was in the government during the last period, unemployment increased by over 100,000 people and people’s economic situation deteriorated dramatically and government debt grew. Now we've turned the gear in the other direction. There has been more work for people, unemployment is slowly falling. It is clear that there is no trick, that everything turns from black to white in a moment, of course not. For example, the situation in the low-wage sector in this country, just as in the case of small pensions, is quite clear that a person who works in the low-wage sector also has a small pension. When the representatives of the party you represent sit there on the tables of the social partners, what is the guarantee that you do not manage this low-wage sector? You manage it by means that the high-paid always get more and the low-paid always loses out, a few pence. You yourself will then update the situation as to why this is the case. What do you not do when you have to? You're just updating the situation that this is what happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u144	Mr President! Why don't you take a look at our alternative budget? There are, among other things, calculations of how the income differentials narrowed during the last period as a result of the government's political decisions and how they grow during this period due, among other things, to the fact that the government has, well, affords, for example, to reduce the taxation of the most well-off. If you can afford to reduce taxation for the most well-off, can you not afford to take care of a slightly weaker and smaller person now? No, you are making cuts to basic safety, for example, and I think that is indeed wrong. I ask you one question — I cannot get an answer to it now, but I still ask: when you can act here and now, why can you not agree with the SDP's demand that we now improve the status of people receiving a small pension and a national pension, and that such a programme be put in place to reduce pensioners' poverty? Please answer: what prevents you from joining in when you are able to afford tax reductions for well-paid people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u145	Mr President! Normally I am not going to argue, because it does not really lead anywhere in this Chamber very often, but now I have to say that the Social Democrats, you are being very self-righteous. The folded index has been valid with the Lipponen Board for over 20 years. You have not changed it, even though you have been in the government many times during that time. But we haven't moved anywhere. In addition, these things that we have listed by the government here, which must be changed as soon as this economic situation improves, are precisely these: the cap on medicines, travel costs must be addressed... In other words, these guaranteed pensioners and national pensioners, the small pensioners in general, we will intervene as soon as we have the opportunity. The guarantee pension has been increased, twice increased during this government. It's not enough, but it's a small change. The mid-term index should be analysed and seen how it might be possible to reach it and whether it would be good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u146	Madam President! The Social Democrats have come to this sitting today constructively, just as they have also come to committee on this matter. We have agreed with this citizens' initiative, the ultimate question, namely that there will be no change to the employment pension index. We have wanted to address pensioner poverty and the livelihood of people receiving a small pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u153	Madam President! Yes, I must say that the demarcation line is absolutely incomprehensible. Let's talk about indices that might have an impact on your pension... I do not know the exact amount, but we are talking about EUR 1 to 2. When the guarantee pension is increased by 40, it is guaranteed to be a plus. In this case, when this initiative is being discussed, there is a little similar taste: you have given people the impression that this is the way to deal with the problems of small pensioners. I'm sure we won't. And your many supporters in municipal elections will be surprised that this does not raise their pension. I'm sure he won't. This serves the interests of the large pensioners, the interests of the big people who already have money. That's what you've always been driving. Why haven't you been working on that small-time employee's case? That's where it has to be done, not in this room. Income policy is quite clearly part of the labour market tables, it is where it should be, and I warmly support it as a worker's organisation itself. That's where it belongs, but what are you guys complaining about when you've had all the keys in your hands for decades?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u154	Mr President! When listening to this debate, it becomes rather sad: I will return to the fact that, when the referral debate was held, there was a sweetly deep consensus in this Chamber that we now need a programme of measures in Finland on how we can facilitate the daily lives of low-income pensioners — a sweetly hard consensus. Now that it is proposed that a programme of measures of this kind be drawn up, it will not happen to the government, so that it is not worth accusing the opposition of holding the same words that we also said in the referral debate. The fact is that when you look at the daily lives of pensioners, the purchasing power of people on low incomes — pensioners and also workers — is weakened by the decision of this government. The fact that there will be another $40 guarantee pension does not take much comfort at the time when customer fees have been raised by 33%, where the $40 went quite often.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u155	Mr President! It is important that the Social Democrats are in a responsible line with this citizens' initiative and that the parties in the committee have done a good job side by side to ensure that such a difference in generations cannot be achieved in Finland. However, there are some fundamental differences of opinion in this debate as to who are the smallest pensioners of all, the lowest-income pensioners — yes, they are the people's pensioners, the guaranteed pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u158	Madam President! The guarantee pension has been increased, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u161	All right, next up, Congressman Kankaanniemi, and then let's go back to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u162	Mr President! The Prime Minister has just announced here that the government is working on these issues of exclusion and the poor, and I trust that, but unfortunately I do not trust the Social Democrats at all, because your actions are so gloomy for pensioners. Last season, you cut the employment pension index. It should have gone up by 1.5%, you cut 1.2 percentage points off.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u164	Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u165	Mr President! I do not know how to say it politely, but I do feel that after these two years, the Finns of Peru are perhaps the last person to blame for being spoken and done differently. It's a legend out there, listening to the people, that how on earth are the Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u168	And back on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u169	Mr President! I would say to Mrs Viitanen that although she is concerned about Greek pensions, we are talking here about Finnish pensions. As I said in the referral debate, it must be possible to maintain confidence in the payment of pensions in all situations, including confidence in those pensions that will be paid after 30 years. This confidence is already being tested without any change in the indexes. The consideration of this initiative was valuable in the sense that it becomes clear to the public that pension funds are in fact just a buffer which, as such, is not sufficient to pay for pension liabilities, but a pension contribution for those who are now and will be in employment. Pension funds are only part of that pension contribution reserve. In its report, the committee has noted the problems of the adequacy of the income of different groups of pensioners in relation to the cost of living. This is what I was hoping for in the referral debate, and now it has been done. It is also clear that an index change would in fact be of greatest benefit to middle and high incomes and that the means to help low-income pensioners can be much more effective. The means have been put forward, and now it is only a matter of finding the money for them. It would be honest to present the money to make these repairs. Government finances are at a disadvantage. The government is seeking to improve employment and the economy of this country; it has concrete means instead of empty speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u173	Mr President! I thought in my own speech that I would address two issues, the same issues that I have already addressed in the referral debate. The first point is that whenever we deal with this issue of pensions, the issue of what affects generations and more than ten years from now, the key principle must be that intergenerational justice takes place in the final drawing. That is also why it is important that future generations are not in this Chamber to defend their rights. But there may be those in this hall who would be happy to make decisions that would be easy to make in this day — to benefit others, and the payers will come later. There is also the fact that these forecasts have often been discussed here. It is true that there are always question marks in the forecasts, whether they are being implemented exactly as predicted, but if we start to do so in each case so that we do not take longer-term forecasts into account, then we would certainly be on the road to destruction if we did so in general economic policy or if we did so when we were dealing with climate change, for example, and this is the same thing — things that will affect more than ten years from now, so we will be forced to assess them, and it will be even safer in general if we assess them with some pessimism. For the younger generation, as in this initiative, which the committee has rightly gone through, it is still essential that this report states that it cannot be the case that an increasing burden is being placed on an increasing number of people. There are actually two factors to this: one is that younger age groups are now smaller than older age groups, and the other is that there are unfortunate examples and research data from the world that it may be that for the first time in history this generation, the young generation, will be poorer than the previous generation. For the first time in world history, wealth from generation to generation may not rise. The younger generation will be poorer, and everyone will understand that there is no greater burden to be paid for smaller incomes. When dealing with this initiative, perhaps the most illustrative and opening point can be found in this report on page 4. I thought this would be a direct quote: "Expenditure increase", i.e. an increase in pension expenditure, "will be financed either by using funded pension funds or by increasing pension contributions. The use of funded pension funds would reduce their return and gradually consume the funded funds and force a significant increase in payments. The increase in pension contributions would increase the tax rate and increase secondary labour costs, i.e. increase the employment threshold. The increase in contributions would be directed at working age groups, especially younger ones, who would face an increase in the burden of payment during their working lives. Index changes would be of greatest benefit to those born in the 1940s and 1960s. It should not be acceptable for the committee to impose a greater burden of payment on younger age groups." The problem of this paragraph is very much linked to this citizens' initiative. Mr President! The second thing I was thinking about is the same thing that I raised in the referral debate, which was then very unanimous in the referral debate in this Chamber. It has to do with this retirement poverty. It is true that we have a huge number of pensioners who live on very strict terms. It would be important for us here together to consider the ways in which we can make their daily lives easier. It is now a great wonder that, in the debate on referrals, both the representatives of the government party and the representatives of the opposition parties had a common will to draw up a programme of measures, to tackle this pensioner poverty, so now that the programme of measures is being presented, it suddenly does not happen to the government. It is very sad that, in the spirit of Finland's centenary year, we cannot work together to solve this problem. And it goes without saying that the solution to this problem will not only be dealt with by the power of this government, but will also require the input of the next governments. It would now have been essential, in the spirit of the centenary, as I have just said, that, together, we should have addressed this problem and gone out to find solutions to overcome pensioner poverty. It has already put forward key measures here, but they are also related to many of the decisions we make here in Parliament: how much medicines cost, what is the cost of food, what is the cost of various services, which is the level of taxation and so on. Many of the things that are right here for us to decide, we could go together and think about and do a programme of measures that would actually address this problem. It is a great pity that this is not acceptable to the government parties. Especially when here a representative of the Finns Party felt that an explanation of this mid-term index was needed. These are the reports that have been made on the world page, and this too is the subject of this report and the expert opinions that the committee has received. More so, if there were to be any clarifications, I would think that an explanation of what Mr Gustafsson has said here in connection with this proposal from the Pensioners' Confederation would allow us to move from this full percentage amendment to a partial euro-denominated amendment. Now, if the Finns are really of the opinion that some new clarifications should be obtained, could you not now shake hands with Mr Gustafsson and the Confederation of Pensioners and have a study carried out as to whether some of this index could be changed to a model in which a percentage but a larger part of it would be checked in euros? This model, at least according to preliminary studies, has been very supportive and would indeed reduce the income gap. Now that you have the minister responsible for this matter, if you are now in your word, I would assume that now you will order a brief explanation of this kind. That is where Mr Gustafsson raised the right point. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that I hope that these pension issues will always respect the principle of intergenerational justice. It is also hoped that we will be able to work together on this pensioner poverty and find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u174	Madam President! Representative Jonah Mr Räsänen has given excellent speeches in this Chamber both in the referral debate and in this first reading. Of course, there are no unnecessary speeches in this Chamber, but if I wanted to hear only two speeches, these are the speeches I would like to hear on this subject that have just been mentioned. The aim of the citizens' initiative has been a good one. In Finland, pensioner poverty is a particular problem that needs to be addressed, but the means of this initiative to achieve it are unfortunately wrong and would not be fair. It has also been noted by the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health who have rejected the citizens' initiative. As a result of demographic change, pension expenditure will continue to rise in the coming years, as the number of pensioners will increase and, as the life expectancy rises, the pension will be paid longer and the start-up pensions will also be higher. At the same time, working age groups are decreasing and the birth rate is lower than before. A weak old-age dependency ratio will be a permanent phenomenon and not just a transient phase related to the large age groups. Of the approximately 1.4 million pensioners in Finland, nearly 200,000 live below the poverty line used in the EU. I believe that in the fight against pensioner poverty, the most important ones are increases in national pensions and guaranteed pensions. Adequate housing allowance, tax relief, consideration of different customer charges and levels of travel expenses and other benefits are also key, as we have heard many times today. If this initiative were adopted or had also been adopted in committee, it would lead to very far-reaching consequences. They would still be in our pension system for decades to come. The committee has heard different experts in its work, and it is no wonder that almost all the experts in pension systems have rejected this citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative would benefit those born before 1970, and those born after that would pay for it. No matter how selfish we may be, we certainly do not want to give such an inheritance to our children. When we talk about our pension system, it is essential to understand the intergenerational situation and, above all, justice. Uncertainty has increased in the employment of young people, and it is estimated that they are going into a much more precarious economic and social employment than we were in the old age. Many studies have reported that the so-called generation Y is becoming the first generation in history to be poorer than its predecessors. At the same time, the burden on young people of the cost of ageing will increase further. This has been achieved by the decisions of previous governments. In any case, young people must no longer be allowed to increase the burden of paying for pensions. The current system guarantees young people sustainable development, which also guarantees their pensions. If the citizens' initiative were to be adopted, it would be in sharp conflict with the fairness of the various generations, and at least I cannot accept it. The pension contribution is collected continuously while the pension liability accumulates. The majority of the contributions to be collected, or 86 per cent, are used for the payment of pensions that are already retired and some are funded for future pensions. At present, the funds funded for occupational pensions cover around 28% of the pension liabilities accumulated so far. Since the 1990s, pension contributions have risen well, by more than a third. This is a significant difference in pension expenditure paid by current pensioners. The median income of persons aged under 25 has also fallen by 6 percentage points between 2010 and 2014. At the same time, the median income of pensioners has risen clearly. When we note the impact of pension contributions on this, we can see that young people are currently paying a higher pension debt than they are paying for their declining income. If the citizens' initiative were to be adopted, youth pension contributions should be increased by 6 percentage points or pensions cut in the future. At least I don't want this for my own kids, no matter how selfish I am. I know that young people will continue to be willing to pay for old age and services for older people and pensions for pensioners, but they understand very well what is fair and what is not. This is precisely the issue of justice. Madam President! As I said at the beginning, we should focus on measures that actually affect pensioner poverty and improve the position of low-income pensioners. In addition to the speeches, we must really ensure that we are able to combat the poverty of pensioners, which is a real problem in our society, regardless of the composition of the governments. However, decisions must always be humane and fair and based on facts. The low income of pensioners is particularly common among pensioners under the age of 55 who are receiving disability pensions and who are receiving an old-age pension who live alone. Poverty has been accumulated especially for older women over 70 years of age, living alone, who have taken care of children at home, who have low pensions and whose main pension income is national and guaranteed pension. Their conditions should be improved by the means I have mentioned above. I also think it would be a good idea to find out whether it would be worth moving to the mid-term index and who would benefit from it. I have already spoken about this in my own parliamentary election campaign years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u175	Madam President! This citizens' initiative to restore the employment pension index to the wage index is, in my view, a rather strange initiative, because there is so much hindsight in this matter that my soul is really stinging, but once again the politician has to stretch his soul. In any case, Madam President, the Finnish pension scheme is based on the fact that employers pay most of the pension contributions and employees pay a little less. 24.4 per cent is the total amount of the pension insurance contribution, of which the employer accounts for 17.95 per cent. That is what our pension system has always been based on, and I think it is a good system. This system has ensured that our pension insurance system has been stable and predictable, and it has also been reasonably easy on the negotiating tables of the social partners when it has continuity, i.e. it has not had to doubt that it will continue, nor has it brought any surprises in the negotiations. People must have strong credit for this system of ours working. It itself already has a significant intrinsic value. At present, pension funds cover around 28% of total pension liabilities, i.e. we are not on the move at 100%, which is where we are still on the way. We represent the European pension insurance field in such a way that we are not quite at the average level, but we are a little below the average level there, so let us not yet beat and proud to play, because we are not the best, but at a good level. I very much appreciate the fact that this committee's report was unanimous. The Demari have tabled this initiative to make another report. There will probably be more and less studies in this house, but I do not think they are of any greater value than the ironing of political conscience as to why we did not do the work in due course. The fact is, as this report says, that the change in the index would lead to the most significant increase in large pensions, the change in the employment pension index would have no effect in the short term for those receiving a small earnings-related pension. This is one thing, as is the case with the negotiations on income policy, i.e. the negotiations on incomes, at the table of employers and workers: After decades of negotiations by the demars there, this has just caused this situation, which is currently the case in Finland. When a low-paid person receives a low salary, it is obvious that he also receives a small pension. It's not two words, it's just like this. And then you here, ladies and gentlemen, crying when the situation of small pensions is like this in Finland. For decades you have had the opportunity to make a difference, but nothing has been done. Here we are. The fact that the situation of Finnish pensioners has become very difficult financially is quite largely due to the fact that we have concentrated and done everything we can to get people to move to growth centres, to take advantage of the great capitalist you fear, who will certainly pick up a lion's share of this berry harvest. Let us take two examples: VVO is a rental entity under your control,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u180	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen's speech also contained a lot of this kind of embryol tone when you were concerned about a small person's cause and thought that it was wrong that there should be such horde owners who then exploit their rents citizens. I would like to say that I know that most of these almost 100,000 people who signed this citizens' initiative are those whose shoes have been chafed for years, decades, by stone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u183	Madam President! I would now like to add a little bit to the objection, and I also thought to open up a little bit of the content of this initiative for action, when it has been called for here to say nothing but nonsense about this programme of measures. We have also clearly thought about, thought about, what could be in this operational programme, but it is not the intention that the Social Democrats should do this programme, but the government, and that was our aim. Let's see what happens with this. Mr President! A few suggestions on what could be included in this operational programme: Deteriorations and freezings made to the National Pensions Index have a direct impact on purchasing power, as benefits no longer follow price developments. This cannot be compensated by taxation, especially since no taxes are paid on the smallest pensions, which are also most affected by national pension indices. The status of the most low-income pensioners can best be influenced by an increase in the guarantee pension. Another way of improving small pensions is by raising the level of national pensions. As we are well aware, the situation of those receiving a small pension is often economically tight. The coordination between national pension and occupational pension could be mitigated in order to increase the number of people receiving a small earnings-related pension. In addition, tax deductions on pension income should continue to increase the purchasing power of low and middle-income pensioners. In addition to pension benefits, the income of low- and middle-income pensioners depends on the use of services and other benefits, such as housing allowance, medical benefits and care allowance for pensioners. Housing allowance for pensioners is of great importance for low-income pensioners in cities where housing costs are high. In autumn 2015, the government had to withdraw its plan to abolish the housing allowance for the pensioner under pressure from the opposition and citizens. The plan would have driven thousands of pensioners into income support customers or out of their own home. In that respect, it was good that the government withdrew from this proposal. However, the Sipilä Government decided to freeze the maximum housing costs of the pensioner’s housing allowance. As a result of this deterioration, the recipient of housing allowance for some 55,000 pensioners exceeds the maximum expenditure. In that respect, their livelihood will not improve in the future. Increasing the maximum cost of housing allowance for pensioners would be one way of facilitating the daily lives of those with low incomes who pay high rents quickly. In the longer term, the solution to the rising housing costs must be sound housing policy and planning. The level of charges for the services they require is also central to the income of pensioners. The need for services is most common among pensioners in the most difficult situation. Timely and smooth access to services is particularly important in everyday life. A reasonable level of social and health care service charges will facilitate the livelihood of low-income pensioners in particular. For example, the report on the renewal of service housing and customer charges for services to be taken home under the responsibility of the municipality during the last Government term provides a good basis for the development of a fair payment policy. The application of Article 11 on rebates and exemptions from the current Consumer Fees Act should also be strongly promoted. Good employment and wage policies also have a significant impact on future pensions. Pensioners who do not have an employment pension are the most low-income pensioners. Women's pensions fall short of men's pensions, not only because of lower wages but also because of a more fragmented career. Good employment and the development of working life, quality education, fair pay policies, high-quality occupational health care and a more even distribution of family leave can contribute to the length of working life and the accumulation of pension provision. Mr President! The low income of pensioners is a fact which can, however, be influenced by political decisions. We have opened up the debate and proposed various ways of improving the position of pensioners. Although the government does not want to draw up a programme of measures that we propose to reduce pensioner poverty and ensure the livelihood of pensioners, we still expect the government to take up this offer of cooperation in one way or another and bring its own options clearly to this debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u184	Madam President! Thank you, Dr. Kimmo. Scream that he took the initiative and collected a multitude of names. That was good. This led to a debate on pensions here in the big hall and, on the other hand, the committee concerned, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to take a very thorough look at this issue, as the report shows. It is only right that there should be a proper debate on pensions at least about once in the parliamentary term, and now at least there was an opportunity to do so. I was also able to listen to experts in the public hearing of the committee — thank you to the committee for organising one for us, which we do not belong to the committee. We have a dual pension system: the national pension system and the earnings-related pension system. It is a historical fact that such things exist. There are quite big differences between these: of course, the fact that some people are paid out of different funds than others and their funding is therefore different, and then, on the other hand, their regulations are also different. Yes, I — and as I have seen in this Chamber, almost everyone else — am concerned about the situation of pensioners in the Social Insurance Institution. I believe and regrettably have to say that quite a few people who are dependent on national pensions and guaranteed pensions really have to wonder whether to buy food or medicine. And this is a very worrying issue in a 100-year-old Finland. I therefore appeal to the Government to try to keep these benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution at such a level that no one in Finland would be in such a position. There are also those on the earnings-related pension side who have a very small earnings-related pension. The national pension base was still removed from these at the turn of the millennium. It was an unfortunate act by Lipponen’s second government, and it has never been corrected — promises may have been made, but this has not been done. There are small working pensions: many people, our mothers and fathers, who have worked hard for a long time in trade or in various service sectors, why not even in industry and agencies, have earned a small wage and therefore a very small earnings-related pension. That is not enough today, and they should be given greater benefit even when they have already done their job. On the other hand, we also have very good pensions — not very much in terms of quantity, but there are and there are still more. That is not something we need to worry about in this house; there could certainly be more taxation. On the other hand, we could look at the system in such a way that the differences in pensions are not increased but are reduced. Unfortunately, this citizens' initiative would have led to a significant increase in pension disparities over time, and that is certainly not an objective that I myself would like to support. Mr President! In 2011, the programme of the Katainen Board of Directors indicated that a study will be carried out on the folded index. That report was made, but Prime Minister Katainen and Minister of Finance Urpilainen put it on the shelf. So we would have an explanation of how it might be taken forward, corrected, but it was not good enough for the government at the time, and we have to say that it is not good enough for this government either. And I understand that very well, because this model is not quite so simple from the point of view of justice. Now that this is the case, I think that the Sipilä-Soin Government is doing the right thing when its scarce resources lead to the raising of the most vulnerable pensions, i.e. an increase in the guarantee pension once and now, the abolition of the second VAT and so on. The payment policy is a heavy one and has been an additional burden for many pensioners. On the other hand, the municipal finances have been put in place during this government. Last year we had a surplus of over half a billion in local government finances. In the last parliamentary term, the figures were extremely bad: severe indebtedness, higher taxes, weaker services, negotiation, even crisis municipalities. And for pensioners, for pensioners who are in a difficult position, the municipal economy, and hence the basic services of municipalities, is extremely important. It is a big thing today for municipalities to be able to organise elderly services, home services and health services, so that pensioners and elderly people are thus treated humanely. Under no circumstances should it be forgotten. Mr President! If, as I hope, this occupational pension system is being reformed, I believe that, for example, the index protection of a monthly pension of less than EUR 3000 should be improved and that more than EUR 3000 — especially if it goes even higher — should be further reduced, thus balancing the pension differentials rather than increasing them. I hope this will already be the guiding principle of this government, but above all, when the next government is formed in 19, it is worth taking this very seriously — and I am not speaking in my own hands, although I am probably on the side of the consumer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u185	Madam President! The canvas peninsula had such a good speech that I was about to call it off. So much I have to say that the situation is that since 2007 we have lost 20 to 30 billion profits from the export industry, and that side needs to be put in order. And if there is a threat that occupational pension contributions will rise, then more will leave the export industry. You can't go in there. You have to be very careful with all this pension stuff. As far as employment is concerned: There were 100,000 more unemployed last season. These don't build up any pension funds or anything. When the SDP has said that, here and now, if we were in the SDP government, we would probably start to have a further 200,000 long-term unemployed — and then that pension system would be destroyed once and for all. And as far as economic growth is concerned, it has now been made to rise a little bit, that there is a plus, but that is it here and now: if there was a SDP here, it would probably be negative. This is not the way to live, like the hard evidence from the last period, from the previous government. You can talk about comrade populism on that corner of the market, "Yeah, we're gonna do this." It's that real comrade populism. We're not populists. We are doing, we are trying to put the state finances in order, and so are these pensions. And we are really concerned about these pensioners below the poverty line. My father is in a situation like this, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u186	Since Mr Tanus' proposal has not been supported, it lapses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u187	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u188	Mr President! Political development in the OSCE is challenging the values of the OSCE and the principles of the rule of law and democracy. Unfortunately, this first sentence of the OSCE report is true. Already in the OSCE, three baskets and a broad concept of security were discussed. At the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, the preparation of contributions will take place within three committees whose mandate will be determined by the three baskets. The first committee deals with political and security issues, the second committee on economics, energy, science and technology, and the third committee on democracy, human rights and humanitarian issues. The declaration adopted in Tbilisi last year included the majority of the Assembly's views on not only the three committees but also 16 other issues in addition to these. The resolutions have commented on both the OSCE principles and the situation in several Member States. However, not all delegations adopted the Tbilisi resolution. Russia, among other things, opposed the entries condemning the occupation of Crimea and Russia's actions in Ukraine. The resolution calls on Russia, among other things, to refrain from aggression against Ukraine, to respect international law and to respect human rights. The Tbilisi resolution also deals with the OSCE's operating conditions, development needs and role. Of these, I would like to highlight the participation of the General Assembly in crisis resolution and conflict resolution and mediation. Promoting mediation is one of Finland’s foreign policy priorities. At the initiative of Finland, in 2014, the General Assembly adopted a statement on the development of parliamentary mediation. Last year President Christine Mutton appointed her predecessor Ilkka Kanerva as a special representative for the peace mediation of the General Assembly. The Finnish OSCE delegation strongly supports this action. The delegation has also contributed to the participation of women in conflict resolution, and we have organised side-events on this subject during the General Assembly meetings. Security consists of many factors, whether it is the functioning of democratic institutions, the realisation of fundamental rights and freedoms or the respect of the sovereignty of states. These are included in the final document of the 75th OSCE Summit. Addressing armed conflicts is a fundamental prerequisite, but lasting peace is the sum of many factors and social measures. There is also a strong human dimension to safety. The rule of law and fundamental rights are the foundation of a stable and fair society. Inequality, discrimination and unfair treatment have a negative impact on stability. When implemented, the SDGs will lead to a more stable, prosperous and equal world. This requires action at national, international and grassroots level. Globalisation makes people more dependent on each other. There is a common concern about diminishing natural resources. All citizens must have equal opportunities for well-being, good life, health, work and functional capacity, education and employment. Gender inequality remains a major problem. Strengthening the role of women and girls contributes to other development objectives. Finland promotes equality by supporting human rights and equal societies. It requires the development of ways of assessing human rights, strengthening the rule of law, democracy and good governance. Finland supports decent work, inclusive growth, equality in working life, equal pay for the sexes and job creation throughout the world. These must be discussed among parliamentarians in the OSCE with a broad concept of security. Sustainable development will support growth, which will satisfy current needs without depriving future generations of the opportunity to do the same. The rule of law includes respect for international commitments, such as the principles of the OSCE and the UN Charters. We are well aware that these principles have been flagrantly violated and that the effects are not limited to a particular country. A good example of this is the refugee crisis caused by violence and wars, on which the General Assembly made a statement last year. Election observation is an integral part of the activities of the OSCE General Assembly. The monitoring reports reveal both the positive democratic development and the wider problems associated with the concept of democracy. The importance of election delivery as an indicator of democracy has been well integrated in the OSCE Member States. Election legislation has been revised and voters have a choice, but is everything what it looks like? Is good electoral law always a guarantee that the rule of law will be implemented? Is the multiparty system a guarantee of alternatives? How do the authorities and parties in power work and so on? We still have a lot of work to do here too. In addition, referendums are a challenge of their own, as in the case of Turkey, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u189	Mr President! The OSCE is an important body and is working for a purpose. It is interesting to note, therefore, that the organisation is conducting election observation not only in countries such as Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia, but also in the United States, where democracy has a much longer tradition than those countries. As such, this two - page report on the elections in the United States was of interest to the public, and it is a wonderful thing that observers did not find fraud in the elections. That is the case, although many felt that there was a great deal of complaint about the outcome of the elections and the opposition even called for the US elections to be discussed in the Finnish Parliament. But now we can say from the report that concern was futile and the result of the election was in accordance with the will of the American people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u190	Mr President! At present, political development in Europe is challenging the OSCE principles in a very concrete and serious way. After the end of the Second World War and the Cold War, we are in a situation in which concern for the future of Europe is almost tormented, in a way where, above all, the most central ideas of the OSCE regarding the sovereignty of every sovereign state, the violation or non-breakdown of its sovereign power of decision, the freedom of state have become questionable. This is something we've imagined we've already got out of. We also know of problems other than these protracted conflicts in which Europe is in a rather challenging position. Everyone knows across Europe is the social consequences of the immigration movement. We know how economic difficulties have been encountered throughout the European continent and how they have changed the plans and intentions that would have sought to build a continent that is viable, viable and conducive to equality in Europe. We know many of the problems that arise as human rights violations, violations of the rule of law and, in general, the difficult challenge of human rights principles. So the situation is very difficult. In this particular situation, the concept created to cover the challenges of a broad concept of security will also be challenged in how it is able to act and influence the positive proposals for solutions to such a situation. There has to be some kind of landscape, some idea of the landscape in which we act, where we act, and how we should act in that landscape, so that the desired and desired changes can be achieved. The OSCE is the largest regional security system in the world, the core business of which, of course, is based on security, security and respect for decent principles. It is in this respect that the OSCE is of exceptional importance to our culture as a whole. It is therefore important that the efforts made just now by the chairman of the Finnish delegation, Mr Paloniemi, are properly and seriously promoted by all the efforts made by the Finnish Parliament in this regard. It is an important and valuable piece of work and I myself have been very much involved in it, thanks to the broad political support of the Finnish Parliament, both as Chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly and now as Special Representative for Mediation. That is why this future of the OSCE is also important to us Finns at all, because the OSCE today is seen as a baby of Finland, born as a result of Finland's measures, which in fact had a positive impact on Europe's current development. Now there is a great deal to be said about whether the OSCE's activities can be re-examined, revitalized, revitalized and revitalized again, now by 57 Member States. That is what Finland should strive for and take through the OSCE these challenges for us in the most serious way. Congressman Paloniemi referred to them. The overall concept by which the OSCE operates is an excellent answer to what Finland's security policy is doing, i.e. in terms of total security. Security cannot be divided into different sectors and sectors in such a way that only one element of security is managed, but the concept of overall security, and it is precisely in this survey that the OSCE offers us a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u191	Mr President! The OSCE is perhaps once again more topical and necessary than it has been for a long time. Of these three baskets, the history of which is more than 40 years ago, as well as the parliamentary career of the previous speaker, today, this first basket with security, that is, political-military issues, is certainly more than up-to-date. Naturally, economic and environmental issues and human issues, the human rights issues that are in that third basket, are important, but perhaps today this issue of security, which Mrs Kanerva strongly raised, is what the OSCE needs to invest more and more in. The OSCE Secretary-General, Mr Lamberto Zannier, will end in June, and it is good that we are now discussing the direction in which the OSCE will be taken in the future. I have noted with satisfaction that there is a very broad consensus in Finland that we can find a long-term player in the OSCE and foreign and security policy for this task anyway. With satisfaction, for example, I put up the tweet of Mr Heinäluoma, who said that now we have full support for this and work together to get a person who knows how to do it. The only regret in this choice is that it would end one important era in the Finnish Parliament as well. But the victory would be much bigger, and then maybe we would suffer that defeat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u192	Madam President! The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is a very important peacemaker in Europe. It is an important international organisation that is doing the work that is perhaps at its best in cooperation between nations, the work of peace. In Europe over the last few years, events such as those in Crimea or Ukraine have awakened us to the fact that security is not a matter of course, but must be acquired again and again every day. And how do you get it? Of course, there's no way to get it. The only effective, effective way of doing so is for the peoples to cooperate with each other. Let us stay in touch and attend the same conferences and meetings and then cooperate fully, as OSCE has done. In this context, it is easy to thank Mr Kanerva, who has just spoken, who has made a huge contribution to this organisation. We hope, if new tasks are opened up to him here, that he will have full support. In 1975, Urho Kaleva Kekkonen's remarkable life's work has made this start in Finland, and it is reasonable to assume that the Finnish people will be able to continue this work and to make our own significant contribution to the European security field. The world today does not look very safe and neither does Europe, but that does not mean that this is the way forward. Yes, we must be able to agree between the nations and improve the security situation in Europe much better from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u193	Mr President! I would also like to say that the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly will become more important when we look at the world situation at the moment. Parliamentary dialogue and diplomacy increase understanding of different aspects and, at best, can open diplomatic nodes and contribute to positive development. It requires, however, that we adhere to and act on a commonly agreed basis of values. We all have responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u194	Mr President! That much, although I happen to be a member of the Finnish delegation, may I also look at the activities of the Finnish delegation with a little outside eyes, a reference base when, of course, there is now, must be said to be that the Finnish delegation deserves such an international assessment, comparison, weighing, "very active and good" because Finland has not only been so active and visible in the work of our delegation in the general assembly, but also in the various committees and, above all, in the election observation that it is not known in Finland in general. It does not come to the attention of the international community, which, of course, would be necessary in this respect. In this regard, the cat’s tail should be raised when there is cause for it. In other words, the whole Finnish delegation must be given a hat, that In this respect, Finland is courageously taking responsibility and showing direction to many other countries as well how to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u195	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u196	Mr President! This amendment to the Criminal Code on the extension of the criminal liability of a legal person to a serious accounting offence seems to me to be a good thing. It is a pity, therefore, that these government proposals, which will certainly make the fight against corruption more effective in public – although according to studies in Finland we do not have corruption, but perhaps we will catch up with this so-called country. Let's get out of here. There's another thing, but at least let's try. The bill was adopted by the Legal Committee without amendment, and the opposition did not put forward any counter-proposals, so the law clearly comes in need of unanimity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u197	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u198	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Under the current foreign law, a person who has been sentenced to expulsion may be kept in custody for a maximum period of 12 months. Detention is necessary in the case of a person who is very dangerous to society or of a person's criminal record. There has been, for example, a case in the public domain where a person released from prison has been kept in custody, as the district court says that there is a 'expression risk' that he would flee, hide or otherwise make expulsion difficult if he were put on the loose. According to the police, there are also reasonable grounds to believe that, for example, in this case — which is why I have now taken this bill — a person who is free could also commit new serious crimes. Continued detention of a person is necessary in order to ensure that his removal is carried out and that the person no longer commits new sexual and violent crimes when he or she is in Finland. In Finland, this person has committed, among other things, the murder of a young girl and has raped another girl. During his short prison leave, just a few hours in prison, he was also guilty of gross sexual abuse of a small child. The police have been working for a long time to expel the person from Finland to their own country. For some inconceivable reason, he was released from prison. However, the removal of Somalia by public authorities is an exceptional and complex process. Arrangements for removal have been slow. According to our current legislation, a man, or person in general, can be kept in custody for a maximum of one year if, for example, the person does not cooperate in carrying out the return or the travel certificate is delayed. The foreigner must then be released in all circumstances. This is where the foreign law needs to be changed as a matter of urgency. We have a few months in this situation. And I personally hope that this matter will now be taken seriously here among the legislators and in the Finnish Parliament. A person found to be very dangerous can therefore be kept off the leave for a maximum period of 12 months. And in my opinion, it should now be extended to an unlimited length, i.e. the form of 'until expulsion is carried out'. On the basis of this above presentation, I have submitted the following bill to Parliament: Article 127 of the Aliens Act. amend "Letting go of the person taken into custody" to read: "The handling authority shall be ordered to be released for immediateexempt when The detained person shall be released no later than six months after the detention decision. However, the detention period may be longer than this if the detained person does not cooperate with the purpose of return or if the third State does not obtain the necessary return documents and the implementation of the removal is delayed for these reasons. Where the District Court has decided to keep the detained person in custody, the Authority shall immediately inform the District Court of the place of custody of the release. The notification may be made by telephone or electronic means. A telephone notification shall be sent in writing to the District Court without delay." So the change to the current law is that the maximum period of 12 months, that is to say a year, will be abandoned and — whether it is this one person to whom I now particularly wanted to refer in this bill, or in the future another person — if all the authorities are of the opinion that a person should not be counted and released from normal everyday life to go there, then our authorities must have the means to keep him in custody until that expulsion succeeds. Mr President! I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will take this bill on board. So this is just a few months to get things right. I understand that he will be released in the late summer, during the autumn at the latest, if this bill is not adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u199	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Heinos for the excellent initiative she has taken. Regrettably, the situation is that under the current foreign law, only those 12 months can be kept in custody. There has often been talk here of borders and closing them. However, it would now be particularly important for this retention period to be made unlimited. These foreign sexual and violent criminals should not be released for some technical matter, but must be kept in custody until this expulsion can be carried out. Surely none of us really want criminals to be able to play free on the basis of their own opposition and by making this process difficult and possibly new. It is a real shame, Mr Heinonen, that you really have not collected any more names for this initiative. I believe that almost everyone in the Finnish Parliament Group would have signed this and your own parliamentary group too, and I believe that from other parties too. Now, if this were to be sent to the Administrative Committee, it would certainly help to have more signatures to deal with this issue and make it possible for it to go further. My approach to this bill is very positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u200	Mr President! It is good to note that in this Parliament the influence of the Finns on the general political climate is spreading across party boundaries — we have been a primas motor of a tightening immigration policy and we have called for stricter sanctions for crimes and, above all, a clarification of the public's sense of justice. It is good that others now accept these ideas. Mr Heinonen's bill is a necessary change to the foreign law. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the maximum 12-month retention period of the current law is highly artificial, especially in cases where a foreigner is to be expelled and found dangerous. It makes no sense for such a person to be released after a year if, for example, expulsion has been delayed because of the documents, but I believe that the person must be kept in custody for as long as it is necessary for expulsion to take place. Above all, there is a need to improve the control and expulsion of illegally staying persons. I believe that this should also be the case for people who have no reason to suspect crimes. Staying in a country where there is no subjective right, and being law-abiding requires compliance with Finnish law. I believe that these issues will require considerable tightening up and changes to the penal, foreign and coercive law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u201	Mr President! Now it has to be said that the background to this bill is not to the slightest any kind of pressure on the people of Peru that I feel on my neck, but a person who has come to Finland 20 years ago has had a family here. This is a serious criminal. I have not done this under the pressure of the Finns, nor have I done the voices of anti-immigration people to fish, but because, in my opinion, there is a clear gap in our legislation which, unfortunately, is about to be released by a person whom the police and almost all the authorities consider not to be set free. In fact, in the past, I have taken a legislative initiative on the risk assessment of the same issue. After all, they were expanded during the last parliamentary term to cover all these long-convicted criminals, whether they are native Finns, immigrants or anyone else. That's the way it's supposed to be. It's not up to who rapes, who kills, who murders. I think it's the same sentence for all of us. I have therefore taken a legislative initiative to make these risk assessments binding on rights, i.e. if the authorities, or experts, state that the person in question should not be released from life imprisonment, then it would not be possible to do so either by judicial decision. And this is another bill of this same line of legislation, which I see above all that we must make determined progress here so that we can get such people out of the country. The timetable is the reason why I did not go here to collect the names of the Members of Parliament. Regrettably, I have noticed that in this Parliament, even the 100th border no longer has the meaning of even having the same treatment as citizens' initiatives, which I think is absolutely theirs... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u204	Mr President! Although I have a terrible desire and a hurry to discuss the issue of the pension index, I would like to say two sentences to this initiative by Mrs Heinonen. With the knowledge and understanding that I now have on this issue, I absolutely support this proposal. At the same time, of course, this world change is amazed. This year must have been a well thought-out period. It's a bit long, isn't it? It may not have occurred to me that it is too short. This just tells us that there's a whole lot of things in Somalia, government structures, the rule of law, and all that stuff. It is then like another story that has nothing to do with this, but I support this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u205	Madam President! Thank you very much, Mr Heinos, for your excellent work. This bill, which aims to amend Article 127 of the Aliens Act, is good and justified. It is true that the world is changing rapidly and that society must be able to protect itself against such cases, so that legislation ensures that no one’s life or health is compromised by the fact that a legal clause is not up-to-date. Finland has become international, and we have had situations in which legislation does not meet today's requirements, and this is precisely the case here. Although Parliament's bureaucracy requires certain procedures and measures before the bill is adopted, I hope that such a bill with only one signature will indeed be taken seriously and dealt with without delay, because I do not think it can be the case that, due to Parliament's bureaucracy or procedures, an important issue will not be dealt with because it does not yet have the required 99 signatures. I believe that Mr Heinonen's initiative in this case will go through this house very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u206	Mr President! There is indeed a legitimate bill from Mr Heinos on this issue. Here, too, there is a genuine need for the authorities to put this right. The first thought that came to my mind was that when the government has brought quite a few articles of the Aliens Act into the Parliament to be changed, the question does arise as to why the whole government could not have intervened in this before, rather than spending quite a lot of time trying to get out of the way with two types of social security, that there would be a different kind of social security for Finns and then for immigrants, which was impossible with the Constitution. Instead, such genuine concerns would be addressed. Hopefully, in the future, the government will remain a little more involved in these matters. Perhaps there is a wider need to identify the problem of these expulsions and expulsions. After all, it is not a question of doing something wrong in Finland; the host countries are very rarely prepared to accept these people. In general, it shields itself from questioning the identity of this person. After all, many of these expulsions are particularly concerned with the fact that we have incomplete knowledge of the identity of a person and that this will then be denied there in the host country. Now we would like this work to be given a little extra impetus in one of the European Union so that these personal data can also be better registered in the Schengen system. I know that this work is going on, and I hope it will be successful, because it will immediately make it easier in these situations too. After all, it is only now in the European Union that we will see that these returns will be a huge task that we will face and that everything must be done to ensure that we are able to cope with these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u207	Mr President! I absolutely agree with Mr Heinonen that the legislative initiatives of the MPs are not being taken seriously enough now. However, the adoption of a bill is a central right for MPs, and voters have the right to expect the initiatives of representatives to be taken seriously, in particular those which correspond to the will of the majority of Parliament, i.e. those signed by more than one hundred. It is a good question whether our work is now too focused on passing through government performances and promoting citizens' initiatives of interest to the media. Nor do I see a problem with the fact that there is a single person behind the initiative in this case, with what he has done. Indeed, on many occasions, individual shortcomings reveal wider problems to be overcome by legislation, as has now been the case here. In addition to the problems of expulsion mentioned by Mrs Räsänen, I also think of the extent to which it is now a problem for expulsion if a person is actively opposed to expulsion by some means. It is precisely for this that the amendments to the law on coercive measures, which I mentioned earlier, are needed to get these people out of the country and out of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u208	Mr President! Mr Heinonen's initiative is good and genuine. Fortunately, I was here to hear about this when I had not been able to sign it before, and so I can express my support for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-16-ps-24.u209	Mr President! I would like to thank all the fellow Members who have spoken in this Chamber. I understand that my initiative has received unanimous support — at least no one has clearly opposed it here — and I think it is very important. I would now like to say to the record that this type of person — whether he is a native Finn, he is an immigrant, no matter the colour of his skin — does not, in my opinion, belong free. That is why I have taken this initiative, this is not from me to any extent anti-immigration or xenophobicism or anything anyone would like to understand. That is why I believe that these risk assessments must be made compulsory and kept in such a way that, if you are a Finnish citizen, a Finnish citizen, you cannot be free either if all the authorities state that you should not be released. Mr President! Now that this is all under my name and my firm desire for our Finnish society and for Finnish children and women is that this bill goes through this spring, I promise I will not celebrate the fact that the bill of a single MP has passed. I'm not gonna send any TVs where I'm glad I did this. But inside me I will rejoice that this person or such criminals will not be released in the future, for their place in Finnish society is not. These are the words that I will end this debate and I hope that Parliament will make the right decision here.
