ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u1	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u2	Madam President! The European Police Office Europol was established in 1995. It became fully operational in 1999. The EU Treaty states that Europol should be provided for by a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The negotiations on this Regulation have been finalised and the Regulation entered into force on 13 June 2016. However, it shall not apply until 1 May 2017, with the exception of certain administrative provisions already in force. The Government's legislative proposal now under discussion is a question of national provisions supplementing the Europol Regulation. They do not contain anything that would not be in force at the moment, but since the Europol Regulation repeals the existing Europol provisions, the national provisions should be recast. The Act would also enter into force on 1 May 2017. The law does not have any significant economic impact. Its impact on the activities of the authorities is also limited. The Government's proposal suggests that the Central Criminal Police should act as a national unit in Finland, a kind of contact point for Europol. Krp is currently a national unit. Secondly, it is proposed that the competent authorities of Finland, i.e. the police, Customs and Raja, could be in direct contact with Europol, as they may already be. Thirdly, it is proposed that the Data Protection Supervisor should act as a national supervisory authority, which is already the case at the moment. It is still proposed that a data subject who wishes to exercise his right to check his/her data on Europol should submit a request for a review to the police department in Finland, as is the case at present. Furthermore, the proposal repeals the existing law on the implementation of certain provisions of the Europol Decision. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u3	Madam President! Europol is therefore an agency of the European Union, whose activities and objectives are very timely at the moment. After all, Europol's objective is to prevent serious cross-border crime, drug trafficking, illegal immigration, cybercrime, trafficking in human beings, money laundering and so on, and that is precisely how Europol works to improve the situation picture based on intelligence and good cooperation between EU countries. Europol's activities are particularly important for the smaller Member States, such as Finland, and in practice the problem in recent years has been the fact that the large Member States are not always so willing to provide that intelligence to Europol, and this is something that in practice has to be kept constantly on the agenda and developed. Now, of course, the very topical issue is the separation of Great Britain from the European Union. After all, Britain is a great power of law enforcement, of official intelligence, and it is very important that British and European Union cooperation in this sharing and gathering of intelligence can take place even after that Brexit. All in all, this Europol regulation is in itself in line with its objectives and in that sense it is perfectly acceptable. This is a very important issue and it is important to support the work of Europol.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u4	Madam President! I am delighted to welcome this proposal precisely because it will significantly deepen cooperation throughout the euro area, and as Mrs Räsänen well described here, so access to information and related matters will become such a moral obligation under this law that cooperation will be intensified and information will be shared. In this way, Finland is likely to be even better able to control its own borders and its own security, as we are constantly informed about what is happening in our countries. So I hope that, while this proposal is being discussed here, we will be able to identify and record these interests in Finland which now come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u5	Madam President! Europol is doing important work, assisting EU law enforcement authorities in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. This type of cross-border crime and activity today is quite different from what we thought a few years ago: it has been accompanied by terrorism, and we must do everything possible to prevent it. The distinction between internal and external security was not very much in the speeches until a few years ago, but today it is very common that they are no longer clearly visible from one another. After all, in Finland we are currently carrying out a reform of the law on intelligence from civilian as well as military intelligence,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u6	Who's going to confess that the phone was playing a coffee call? — Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u7	Madam President! It is easy to continue with what my representative, Timo Heinonen, spoke of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u10	Madam President! This bill is good and worthy of support. However, attention must be paid to the fact that, when new opportunities are created for Europol, care must be taken not to create unnecessary new bureaucracy but to ensure that the powers conferred on the police are clear and enforceable, but, on the other hand, there is money and opportunity, sufficient resources. In Finland, the situation is improving even in the context of the preparation of intelligence legislation, and indeed, for the security of the country, a intelligence law is needed which genuinely provides the instruments needed by the police to monitor national security against, among other things, transnational crime. In this respect, the European Union is the right forum for cooperation, exchange of information and, in particular, action within Europe against organised crime. We all know that a single country, a small country, is not able to do very much on its own territory, because criminals are using the whole of Europe and international, modern media, the Internet offers enormous opportunities. To this end, intelligence legislation must be put in place and ensure that when money and resources are given, it all genuinely goes into that research. I hope that this new agency, whatever it will be when it comes to it, Europol will not now become a huge new agency complex with a huge number of officials sitting without actually being on an active police mission, investigating matters. This is a good proposal, which I warmly support and I hope that this intelligence legislation will finally be updated in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u11	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal must be supported by cooperation on EU law enforcement. Europol has a very central role to play in the European security system: it is a supporter of the implementation of law enforcement operations; it is an important element in the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities in criminal matters; it is also a centre of expertise; it is a centre of excellence in criminal analysis. In this respect, cooperation with Finland is also important when we know the limits for the domestic police financially, and cooperation in this respect will help. We are certainly no longer living in a birdhouse even here in Finland if we also think of the threat of terrorism. We must therefore be on the same line and in cooperation with Europol as regards the investigation of crimes. I remember that tele-identification conversation very well. It was in the Committee on Transport and Communications, and I myself represented a very pragmatic line in it, not that any prying society is being made, but that the police have sufficient powers to identify where the calls are directed. Finally, as far as the Brexit is concerned, that there are tax havens, Isle of Man and Jersey, and if Britain really is going to leave the EU, as it is going to leave, then there will certainly be a small plane in which there will probably be money cases full, so that Europol will certainly be needed in this sense too. The grey economy is quite large in these islands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u12	Madam President! The government's proposal must be supported in every respect. I can say with a deep chest voice that Europol is a highly effective unit in terms of its size. I myself have been working there for some time over ten years ago, and there is excellence there. True, it should also be ensured that intelligence legislation is going forward here, because in order for information to be exchanged there must also be information that can be exchanged. However, Europol is not a market place for information to be obtained only if information is provided. It works anyway. Now I have just heard that the West Uusimaa police chief Jari Likku, a very good professional, is leaving to complete these other experts there. It is also a good market place for Finland to show how the exchange of information works, because in Finland we have always had a very good exchange of information between the authorities and Europol may always be able to improve it and look at a little model from Finland. Thank you once again to Mr Ben Zyskowicz for a very good speech. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u13	Madam President! It is indeed the case that Finland is far behind in these matters of intelligence and we need both the Civil Intelligence Act and the Military Intelligence Act on an urgent basis. These laws are currently being prepared and the parliamentary working group is also involved. And the aim is to get ready this spring, so that during the fall these laws can be dealt with and put into effect at the beginning of next year, this is such a target schedule. After all, we have been very far behind in this development, and it is quite frustrating that, in the case of the foreign ministry's espionage, we received information from the outside world that this had already happened in Finland for many, many times. So we need to get this thing right as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u14	Mr President! In our time, law enforcement cooperation is extremely important in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime. After all, the biggest innovation from the operational point of view is the change in the data processing rules by moving from system-specific rules to end-use-related rules. The government's proposal for a law on the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation must be supported. Like Mr Raatikainen, I can say that the Finnish police are grateful for this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u15	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Risikko for presenting this proposal himself and for presenting it very well and thoroughly. But I would be interested to hear what you have in mind — when you attend these meetings of the Council of Ministers and I am sure you have also discussed with the British colleague there — the way in which this cooperation and cooperation within Europol will continue after and in connection with Brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u16	Madam President! I would have asked Minister Risiko what additional costs could be incurred in this regard: do we need more resources and are we prepared for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u17	Secretary Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u18	Madam President! Thank you for these comments. After all, there was also a great deal of scope here for our security and related issues, and attention was also paid to the challenges facing us in the future. When we think about our future, we can no longer distinguish between internal and external security. We are in a very different situation than what happened two years ago, even a year ago, and here you, who spoke, showed that you understood this situation. Recently, last week, there was also an explanation of the need for such a common picture of the situation, not only from the safety authorities but from all of us in the decision-making process, and that is now the intention that this security and the related situation picture should be taken more closely in the forthcoming mid-term debate of the government. A common picture of the situation is not enough, but we also need powers of action. You have made an excellent point here about this legislation on intelligence and, once again, from here on out, I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are a great guardian of this legislation on intelligence. This is absolutely essential in this social situation. All in all, we have a great deal of work to do. They come from these threats of ours, there are constantly new tasks for the police, they are required, but we must ensure that those powers of action are then also in line with those tasks. We also need to invest in performance and other resources, and I am very pleased that in the supplementary budget proposal we now have an additional period of time for the 200 policemen: the fixed-term 200 people who were at risk of becoming unemployed were able to be hired, and that has been a great deal of commendation since then. But of course it is not enough, too, but we must constantly develop our skills. We must ensure that the flow of information is good, both between the safety authorities and other authorities, and then, of course, we must remember that there must be cooperation between all authorities. Also prioritization, prioritisation of tasks are on our list. As far as EU cooperation is concerned, we really need to develop cross-border cooperation. Europol is one of these, a kind of prime engine which also coordinates it and provides us with the information that we do not necessarily have. And I'm very proud of the fact that Chief Jari Likku is going there now. It is one of our prides to have a Finnish, competent police officer there. Congressman Räsänen asked about this intelligence cooperation. All in all, I believe that, despite the Brexit, we will be able to take care of it, and that is now one of the tasks of Europol, in any case, to take care of this cooperation in the field of intelligence, despite the fact that Brexit is taking place. Thank you for your comments and the work will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u19	Madam President! Minister Risikko gave a good presentation and supplemented it. That is what I am going to ask when we are talking about this cross-border cooperation: Now, on this other side of the western border, Sweden has heard quite a lot of bad news, cars have been blown up, murders have increased, criminal investigations have deteriorated, and now, just last week, I think there was a situation where the gang directly attacked the police force violently. Is there something we can learn from Sweden about how cooperation works in that direction, and are there any signals that we should be particularly concerned about when we compare the situation in Sweden and Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u20	Madam President! My speech is similar to that of Mr Kiuru. It is important that we develop international cooperation and exchange of information, but we also need to assess our own internal security from the point of view of whether our own police resources are properly targeted. When I listen to the various experts and look at the serious spread of the drug problem in the big cities and the ever-increasing problems — and it is this example from Sweden raised by Mr Kiuru — that we need more 150 to 200 police officers to work on drugs. It must be actively addressed because our internal security has also changed substantially because we have inevitably come to a country where we cannot be completely sure of how we operate. This is a major serious problem, and it is also linked to the over-indebtedness of young people and other unpopular issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u21	Madam President! This proposal refers to Article 20, which provides for the access of Member States and Europol staff to information stored by Europol, and Article 21, concerning access by Eurojust and Olaf to information transmitted by Europol. I would like to ask the Minister whether it has been in the ideas to clarify the Finnish information security legislation in this respect, that we can be sure that now that this access to information is increasing and increasing very significantly, there will be no security risk here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u22	Mr President! With reference to what Mr Eestilä has said, I would like to say that I agree that this is indeed a worrying situation that drug-related crime is on the increase. If we also include the fact that we have more and more paperless people in the country who do not have the chance to work legally, then it is another area where we can unfortunately find them. It is already known and visible in Uusimaa that these drug gangs have specific foreign citizenship or background citizenship abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u23	Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u24	Madam President! There was also a question here about the economic impact, and this does not really have an economic impact. There were very important themes raised here to focus on: Drug work, financial crime, on which we have also stated that it is a priority. This work with young people is also related to drugs and exclusion. We have this Ankkuri model, which, as a multiprofessional team, helps young offenders on a narrow path. The work of the Internet police, which has now been strengthened, is also an excellent thing. The anti-terrorism work that was referred to here on behalf of the representatives is something that we now need, among other things, the intelligence legislation. All the information we have on terrorism — we are not the number one country at the moment, and that is good, but it can change at one time, and that is why we need to be in the vanguard and prepared for this. I personally feel that it is important that we discuss this situation picture here in Parliament every now and then, where we are going, and I hope that we will continue to have these debates. Thank you for these comments. We still have confidence in the police, we have confidence in our security workers and security workers, but we also need that international cooperation in order to create this security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u25	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 1/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u26	Mr President! Like the committee, it is easy to support this government proposal to amend the Food Law. In Finland at all, the quantity of preservatives is not a problem, and in these matters we are more specific to our production than in other European countries, even though we have to compete with products from other countries on the same market. It can be seen as a positive development of legislation that European legislation and regulations consider what can be done at national level and that interpretations should always be done first and foremost in the interests of Finns. In short, it is a question of changing the law within the framework of the Union regulation that we can increase our national protein self-sufficiency and improve our national security of supply. This is good legislation and is in line with the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u27	Madam President! This is about plant protection products and their regulation in the EU, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry notes that, from a global point of view, we have little use of plant protection products in Finland. This, of course, plays a partly important role in cold winters and freezes, which make it easier, but then, on the other hand, we have certain natural conditions that require the use of some chemical compounds. I think it is very important that this is why we are determined in Finland to move forward with these labels of food origin, because Finnish food is good-flavoured, produced nearby, from low-emissions sources, but also from a small amount of plant protection products and others containing these different substances, and then it is good that people know what they are buying at the store. And right here a moment ago, I ran into a package that said "no additives added", and I stayed to think about what it means that there are no additives added. The company in question did give me an explanation of what it means. But we have packages of this kind in Finland, and it is quite a mess at the moment that the Finnish consumer is in it. We should be more determined to go in the direction of unambiguous labelling of the origin of all food. Then we could all make those choices ourselves. In the near future, we will be discussing the Government's report on food policy, the Food 2030 document. I welcome the fact that we are strongly raising this issue of our own food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u28	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee, to which the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u34	Madam President! Representative Aalto's speech was constructive, thank you for that. Of course, taxation is, in general, political choices and priorities, in which direction it is taken, and when he referred to this motorcycle tax and also the boat tax, which are point taxes and, above all, what the Greens have supported, i.e. taxation in the direction of consumption from the direction of taxation on labour, I would now like to say that the centre of the Prime Minister's Party and also the second-largest government party from the People's Republic of Finland have come to the same conclusion that these taxes can be abolished, and it is good to say now that such an agreement has been found. And when the expected returns of the mp tax and the boat tax have already fallen significantly, we will look for replacement measures for the small objective that remains there in a few moments at the forthcoming midwayer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u35	Madam President! Taxes are needed, but perhaps in general it is possible to say that taxes are some kind of sand for the economy. Of course, different taxes have a negative impact on the economy in different ways. That is why I was very pleased when Mrs Aalto suggested that the focus on taxation should continue to be shifted from taxation on work and entrepreneurship to taxation on consumption and harm. I think this is the right direction and we must move in this direction. I think that economics is quite one-sided in that it is the taxation of work and the taxation of entrepreneurship that have a very detrimental effect on economic development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u36	Madam President! I would like to thank the representatives of the Government Party for their constructive counter-statements and I hope that in this Chamber, on a day other than Valentine's Day, there could be such a consensus that we could take taxation as a whole in a more reasonable direction so that it meets its fiscal objective but also its specific principle of neutrality. And it would be terribly important for our tax system not to be full of exceptions, reductions in deductions, which make it a very complex and difficult-to-manage entity. As far as motorcycling and boat taxes are concerned, from a green perspective, owning the boat itself or owning the motorcycle itself is not the problem; it is precisely the consumption that can be considered and then the environmental steering through fuel taxes can be achieved. When prepared in this way, the proposal is unfair, quickly prepared and does not meet the fiscal objectives it has been given. I hope that the government will indeed withdraw this proposal on motorcycling and boat taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u37	Madam President! Taxation is, of course, a big entity, but this government's very lame tax policy is an example of precisely this planned motorcycle tax and also the boat tax, which have been such envy-based taxes and in that sense extremely poorly suited to the tax package. On the other hand, if we look at the tax items that the KD has highlighted here in its alternative budget, such as the sugar tax, which could have prevented health damage and at the same time the state's treasury would not have obtained something insignificant at least twenty million — as in some motorcycle tax, where we have to wonder whether there will be more costs than profits — but rather 300 million in the state budget, this was not something that the government wanted to implement. It seems inconceivable, therefore, that such taxes, which would actually be productive, which would be preventative, preventable, do not want to settle, but instead do not produce anything — inconceivable. Bad tax policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u38	Madam Speaker! I was delighted to hear my colleague, Mr Heinonen, speak about this tax on boats and motorcycles, but I would now like to make it clear what is going on. During the weekend I have read about more media that both the head of the Centre Party and some members of the Coalition have felt that both taxes, i.e. both boat tax and motorcycle tax, could be sunk into the depths of the sea, but what is the position of the Finns on this issue? I understand that they would be prepared to give up the motorcycling tax, but this boat tax is actually even more absurd if we look at these calculations and see what it would do if a boat tax were introduced. In Finland, however, there are only a few hundred or so boats, and they too will be transferred abroad if the tax comes, i.e. the taxable are small and cheaper boats. This would be a completely unfair solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u39	Madam President! The Chairman of the Christian Democrats, Mr Essayah, criticised the tax policy of the current government. However, in a very recent assessment, when the economists were asked who was to blame for the fact that the economy has now turned around and is about to grow gently, the experts stated unequivocally that it is thanks to the actions of the current government. There has now been a significant reduction in the tax burden on labour, a payment-based VAT, a reduction in entrepreneurial activity and a number of other measures which have now been specifically applied for this growth and sought to turn this ship in a different and correct direction. I agree that such mp-taxes and boat taxes are bad tax policies, and I myself have, in principle, been opposed to them since the time of the government negotiations, and the Coalition Party has been prepared to give up both of them, and at least I believe that if the Chairman of the Prime Minister's Parliamentary Group announces and also announces the Group Chairman of the People's Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u40	Madam President! I do not think that the ink has yet dried up from these legislative proposals, which Mr Heinonen has listed here, so perhaps it can be said that they have hardly yet had a major impact on the economic turnaround, but I admit that every time good proposals are made, such as this 5% reduction for entrepreneurs, I think it is a question of creating prospects. This is just the right type, and the KD has supported this both in the previous period and this season, and we are glad that it has been implemented this season, and in that sense we have been working together here behind the entrepreneurship reduction. But I am also pleased with the honesty that it is admitted that these mps and boat taxes have indeed been bad proposals, and fortunately they will not be taken any further from now on. But in alcohol taxation, I would also like to see a responsible policy on the part of the government. Now that Estonia is increasing alcohol taxation, I hope Finland will do so at the same rate. And then, of course, we hope to be able to improve this absurd alcohol reform in Parliament. That it should by no means be carried through as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u41	Mr President! With regard to these motorcycling and boat taxes, now that we have spoken and my party's fundamental Finns have been mentioned, I now say that there is no government proposal on these, but there is a draft for the consultation which is coming back from the consultation and which will be taken up after that. Political will has been expressed on the part of all government parties, at least on the suspension of the motorcycle tax. We'll see how it goes. The government is dealing with this issue, and I wonder at the individual departures of the representatives of the government parties in this regard to other government partners. What does it accomplish to have such discord sown in public?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u46	Mr President! On page 49 of the report there is a paragraph entitled The impact of increased refugee costs on public finances. The estimates in this paragraph regarding the asylum crisis or perhaps the crisis in asylum tourism in Finland may not be deliberately misleading, but they do not give an overall picture of the cost of the phenomenon in my view. In my view, the estimates by the Ministry of Finance that the cost of the refugee crisis would be only 0.3% of GDP in 2016 are highly embellished. Personally, I would like to see the cost and the refugee crisis, together, turn the debate on the euro, which is easier to understand. We know in this Chamber that the maintenance, legal security, applications, complaints, health care, education, integration and crime, as a result of the double effect, are costs that are easily more than EUR 1 billion net in 2016, and that EUR 1 billion or more will be net borrowing in this economic situation as a whole. I do not like the fact that the total cost of the phenomenon is hidden away from the various items. It is therefore important to speed up the Government Programme's study on the total cost of immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u47	Mr President! Recently, we have been able to read and hear about three assessments which unfortunately are similar, namely that the government is lagging behind in its objectives. In addition to the separate report of the National Audit Office (VTV), which is now under discussion, the Economic Policy Council Report 2016 and the mid-term review of the Government term of the Ministry of Finance have also appeared. According to VTV, the central government deficit and thus the general government deficit as a whole are not significantly affected by further adjustment. The persistent deficit of local government has also led to a rapid increase in the debt burden. Over the last 15 years, local government debt has risen from less than EUR 4 billion to almost EUR 18 billion. Significantly, while local government revenue and current economy expenditure fall almost half the current level, municipal balance sheets' accumulated deficits and surpluses, assets and liabilities remain virtually unchanged. The achievement of these objectives is largely dependent on expenditure cuts in the context of slow economic growth. Of course, it would be nice to hear at this stage what additional adjustment measures the government intends to take. In view of the above, I would like to highlight the KD's proposals for an alternative budget to balance the budget, that is, as Mr Essayahkin said, the increase in the sugar tax and the alcohol tax. The KD’s alternative budget also proposes to cancel the savings on vocational education and training. This would include, among other things, an increase in research, development and innovation subsidies and export marketing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u48	Madam President! Congressman Östman said it would be nice to hear what additional adjustment measures the government is planning to take. Well, I do not know other MPs than Mr Östman, who think it is nice to hear about the various additional savings, but in this situation the government is not seeking further adjustment measures, but in the middle of the debate the government is seeking new measures to support employment and economic growth, which are aimed at ensuring that further adjustment measures are not needed or not needed, at least to the extent necessary if employment cannot be improved. So this is the government's line. We aim to increase the employment rate briskly, it also helps to balance central government finances. So we strive to avoid savings, not to make them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u49	Madam Speaker! It would be nice to hear, yes, because Mr Paasikivi, Zyskowicz’s partymate, once said that recognition of the facts is the beginning of wisdom. And when we all know and watch how Finland’s sovereign debt develops, KD is at least concerned about it if this is allowed to continue. It is well known that the situation cannot go on for very long, that if the government is seriously lagging behind, further adjustment will be required. In that sense, it would be nice to hear these things before the forthcoming municipal elections, so that it does not happen that immediately after the elections the voters again feel disappointed that they have spoken too beautifully about things, even though the fact is that the situation in Finland is still quite serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u50	Madam President! I would like to say to my friend Mr Östman that, yes, the coalition and the government as a whole are concerned that the ambitious objectives of the Government Programme for a government debt-to-GDP ratio in 2019 are not in the process of being realised. That is why the government has agreed that, from a stronger point of view, and also from outside the box, solutions will be sought to support economic growth and employment, which will naturally also have a positive impact on public finances. So, at the moment, this is the track on which the government is moving: seeking solutions that support employment, supporting growth, which will then try to avoid these new savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u51	Madam Speaker! The government is just as concerned as KD. It is good that you are concerned, but measures are also required, because the government's target of not taking on any additional debt after 2021 is still a long way off and the employment rate is falling by 2 percentage points below the target of 72 per cent in 2019. So it is not just enough to be optimistic and, on the other hand, to be concerned. Yes, it still requires radical measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u53	Madam President! Indeed, the government is trying to achieve these key objectives, which are now slipping away, by raising the employment rate and then by means of these structural reforms. And the KD itself definitely wants to support these goals, but there are pitfalls in both of them. In other words, in view of this unemployment, which is a key objective in order to improve the situation, these direct expenditures, unemployment benefits, housing subsidies paid to unemployed households and some of these income support expenditure are around EUR 6 billion, and at about that rate there is an annual debt. In other words, a rather violent situation, if you think that on the other side you go into unemployment care expenditure, so to speak, as an eating debt, then all that is taken from outside. And especially in the capital region, these high housing costs and high housing subsidies also reduce the incentives for employment. In other words, we would need the future social security reform, in which I think this basic incentive for KD is a good model that should be considered. Well, otherwise, this problem of long-term unemployment can be seen in the fact that once it has become structural, then it may not always be possible that the economic situation will help. In other words, even though the cyclical situation is improving, this so-called persistent long-term unemployment is still wanting to stay. Statistics show that men between the ages of 55 and 64 have an employment rate of around 60%, compared with 77% in Sweden, so that these early exit routes have been blocked, but should we also think positively about how to get people of that age back to work, and that active employment policy is also needed. Of course, the employment of young people can then be improved through this enhanced job search advice and also through pay support and the like. That we need a very diverse repertoire in order to tackle this unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u54	Madam President! The report by the Inspectorate is very interesting to read. It is clear and opens the way for citizens to have a healthy view of the state of the economy and, above all, of the direction of the economy. The Government’s objective of strengthening public finances by EUR 10 billion extends beyond the current parliamentary term. This requires a commitment to a long-term economic policy. It is clear that the current cuts of EUR 4 billion in public finances are not enough, but we must continue to step up our efforts and seek savings, as I think the Minister of Finance, Orpo, has tried to suggest between the lines that more should be done. And since the government has not reached agreement on the continuation of savings, the sustainability gap is rising to 7 billion. The Audit Office recalls that public sector responsibilities and associated risks should be monitored as a whole and in relation to the rest of the economy. In order to achieve the employment objective, the government must take a good final turn. In order to achieve the Government’s objectives, the Government must continue to make it possible to reduce public sector expenditure. Another very interesting and absolutely worthy of discussion is the overall reform of taxation, the need for which arises here. It should deal with taxes from the point of view of their negative effects. This debate is hardly at all taking place in Finland. Finland is a high-tax payer, and we have a high level of willingness to pay compared to other euro countries. We are used to paying taxes because we have received value for taxes in the form of services. Now, however, we are in a situation where the people feel that post-tax revenues are no longer able to cope with, and at the same time the service levels of many municipalities are falling and municipal taxes are rising. We would need extensive tax base reform and debate on this. I hope that the remaining representatives here will also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u55	Madam President! It is extremely valuable that the inspection report and the interim report should come, as in this case. The report of the National Audit Office is a very good document. There is courage, there is wisdom to see what has been done so far and what are the prospects for the future. For Finland, it is absolutely crucial whether we can improve the employment rate and reduce unemployment. It's the big thing that we have to deal with. A few days ago, we learned from the European Union that Finland is the second last country to grow. 1.2% has been predicted that economic growth is currently in our country and that is far too little. Growth must be brought closer to 3%, when unemployment is genuinely going down. It is the real means of saving public finances, the only effective means that will help not only central government finances, public finances, but those who are currently unemployed. It's really big for their lives, and it's really big for their future pension cover too. I cannot understand what this Chamber has to say, those who say that tax cuts will bring about something good. The way I see it, it's been a long time since it's been completed. By tightening taxation, this problem will not be solved; rather, taxation will be sensibly reduced, entrepreneurship supported, and precisely so that we can gradually regain competitiveness. This report rightly draws attention to the need for fiscal policy and government policy in general to have a future perspective. It can't be some cheap-ass thing that makes one decision per day and then tomorrow we'll see if your thumb is up or down. You have to have a long way to go, have the courage to make bold decisions. The government has made them, but they still need them, and we must continue along the same lines. Eight years were raging in the swamp of the recession, and every reasonable person understands that such a situation does not allow one or two years of politics to let go. It is a question of the policy of this parliamentary term and certainly also of the policy of the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u56	Mr President! I can agree with what Mr Hoskonen said earlier. Indeed, three things are important for Finland: employment rate, employment rate, employment rate. We need to make the economy grow. In addition to the Competitiveness Pact, it calls for the implementation of the Government's strategic programme and then structural reforms for employment and employment. Mr President! It is good that there has also been talk of tax policy, as stated in this report by the Inspectorate. I, too, have an opinion on boat tax and motorcycle tax, but I am not going to take that opinion here. Instead, I say that we really need predictability, stability, not to keep at the pace of corporate taxation, for example, but this kind of tax road map is indeed necessary. That is what we have been proposing from the centre, because the tax environment is changing a lot because of international tax competition, especially now that new players have become involved. The grey economy is also one issue. The regional tax is coming, digitalisation is coming, work is changing in the direction of services and basic income is still coming. So this argument is being considered, this whole thing really needs to be considered. From the centre district, we asked the spending limits committee to consider that, in the case of families with children, now that the family allowance is abolished, we would consider raising the child's income deduction, for example EUR 75 for a child or something like this. It could slightly reduce the incentive trap of families with children and, on the other hand, give them opportunities to spend more when more is left in their hands. It is the situation of families with children, especially single-parent families, that is quite difficult, as we know. I hope that this reform, which is not a very expensive reform in itself, will now also be considered in the framework debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u57	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, 12 gross domestic product fell by 1.4 per cent, 0,8 per cent in 13 and 14 minus 0.7 per cent, i.e. it was a very negative development in gross domestic product. There were 100,000 more unemployed. The general government deficit was covered by debt and cash flow by eating more than EUR 35 billion. Taxes were tightened. That policy didn't play. This led to such a situation that unemployment increased, companies did not trust, invested or prospects for the future. This is the starting point for the Sipilä government. Its programme consists of spending adjustment, which has now been made, about four billion. Then work and enterprise have been encouraged and promoted in many ways, which has been on the agenda here. And now we are doing these major structural reforms, which were half or nothing in the last period. In other words, there has been an enormous turnaround here, and this is reflected in the fact that GDP is currently increasing — not sufficiently, but is growing, unlike in the last period. The rate of debt has clearly slowed down, also taking into account the indebtedness of municipalities, and employment has improved. And trust is everything. Businesses, business, households, everyone is currently relying on our economic survival opportunities. So the turnaround is really radical compared to what was happening during the last parliamentary term, even in terms of tax extortion and debt. We must now also take into account the municipalities, as has been mentioned here: the municipalities have reduced taxes, the debt is not taken into account as before. We don't have any crisis groups. A major tax reform in this country is needed and hopefully carried out on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u58	Madam President! Yes, it is necessary to say that Mr Kankaanniemi has become an excellent economic politician here over the years. I couldn't have said things any better than he said. I agree with the fact that we really do have taxation on our hands. In the last parliamentary term, taxation was tightened and contributed to the worsening of the situation. Almost all taxes, however, revolve around the prices of Finnish export products, and when we need to take care of competitiveness so that well-being can be built when we cannot lift ourselves up from the hair, export trade must go and stock must change. In this respect, for example, this alternative budget, which has been proposed here, is certainly not raising Finland's sugar tax or other increases, but is a much broader issue. You can rejoice that the Government Programme is now being implemented with determination. A turning point has been achieved, confidence has been restored, new jobs are being created, especially on the West Coast, where I come from, so that the situation seems quite promising. And it is important to strengthen this development, this positive structural change that some localities have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u59	Madam President! To this excellent speech by Mr Kankaanniemi, I would like to add that, as Finland is now planning its own economy from now on, we also have threats that need to be taken into account when planning our own economic policy and, in particular, our employment policy. There were two U-letters on today's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which clearly reflected, at least in my eye, the fact that there is a little preparation for a new banking crisis, and the news about Greece is also very worrying. In other words, we should keep our own nest as clean as possible, create as much new activity as possible in our own economy and, above all, gradually tow competitiveness for the better. It is true that Europe is still in a situation where this debt is a big, big troll for all countries and there are many, many other countries besides our own country, where there are major economic difficulties when we are in a common Euroboat, which means that we have many obligations towards Europe, but we still have our own tax policy. We can plan our own taxes ourselves. For example, today's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy had quite clear objectives in these U-letters that, among other things, corporate tax should move towards a common corporate tax rate. I find that extremely worrying if the European Union extends its powers to go beyond its original Treaty of membership of the European Union. I find that very damaging. Finland must continue its own economic policy and ensure that the economy of this country is restored. It's a long march, it's at least a marathon, but that's the way to go when there's no other path to support, no good road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u60	Madam President! Firstly, in the name of Valentine's Day, I thank Mr Ala-Nissila for those valuable words and, when it was Mr Ala-Nissila, they have a strong weight. Perhaps a written statement would be in order, but I will no longer do anything with it at this point in my life. Thank you. Mr Hoskonen raised an important issue, namely the development of this Europe, and at least I am deeply concerned about what will happen in Europe, and I am almost afraid of what will happen in Europe. There are still crises: the euro is in a very difficult position, the Union as a whole is squabbling, Brexit, Greece, Italy, France, even Germany, the Netherlands and many others. In other words, you can become anything for us, and you have to be prepared for it in our economic policy, and the best way to prepare for it is that Finland is now pursuing its economic policy in accordance with this government's programme. It can, however, improve these problems for us, which we have inherited from eight years of unhappy economic development that has not been reversed. Finally, the government has these key projects, which are extremely important. It's not enough to talk about them. They aim for new areas where we also have a future for the economy and employment. I will return to the local government economy: for the first time in ten years, the local government finances will be strengthened this year thanks to government budget measures. 14 municipalities reduced their tax percentage for this year. The debt is less and less taken by the municipalities. Services that are extremely important to the most vulnerable can now be kept because people do not need to be laid off or laid off. There are no crisis groups. All in all, there were too many conflicting developments during the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u61	Madam President! Of course, it is easy for the opposition to agree with these good things, which we can certainly see happening at the moment. But at the same time, while here we have a little praise for each other for Valentine's Day, it has to be said that this message from the Inspectorate is very clear that the measures taken are still insufficient to achieve the government's own objectives. But...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-14-ps-6.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
