ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 18 April 2017. In the debate Katja Taimela Satu Taavitsainen has tabled three motions for statements under protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Amendments Nos 1 to 3 tabled by Mrs Taimela will be put to the vote on each individual report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 18 April 2017. In the debate Mika Kari Sirpa Paatero has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u5	President! This bill is a natural continuation of the development that has taken place around the Finnish National Board of Education. Some time ago, the Finnish National Board of Education and Cimo merged, and now the goal is that the Student Qualifications Board and Karvis, the Education Evaluation Centre, should become separate units of the Finnish National Board of Education. However, there has been some turbulence during the preparatory phase of the expert opinions, certain types of duubies have been presented to this effect, but the whole has been behind this proposal. However, due consideration must be given to whether, for example, the independence of the matriculation examination board is maintained effectively. This system has been built in such a way that the firewalls would be, but this is something that needs to be followed up and the committee still needs to discuss it carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u6	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u7	Madam President! This is only a matter of giving the Deutsche Internationale Abitur degree the same rights as the completion of the matriculation examination in the future. After all, we are currently also having a debate in Finland on how the matriculation examination could be further renewed. We are in the process of this electrification, which started in 2016, and in 2019 is the goal that all these matriculation examinations should be electronic. This week, however, a proposal from the Group of Presidents Lehikoinen on how to further develop the matriculation examination was also made public. Personally, I welcome the strengthening of the matriculation examination as a upper secondary school degree and the more frequent opening of the way to further studies. In this way, we could at least partially get rid of expensive training courses that discriminate between our school and learning paths and put young people in an unequal position. At the same time as it would do this, the way to further studies would also be to increase these opportunities for uplifting, i.e. there would be no need to succeed at a time. The compulsory language of the mother tongue would also be maintained, and this proposal from the working group would increasingly encourage the study of mathematics, but also its second domestic language, and I also welcome it myself. As a former teacher, or perhaps as a teacher today, I also welcome the gradual introduction into upper secondary schools of these cross-disciplinary tasks also for matriculation examination. Our children and young people are growing up in a world where there are no more clear limits, and that is why I see this as very positive and also the fact that six-hour tests can well be passed on to a little more intensive, four-hour tests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u8	Mr President! Representative Heinonen gave an excellent speech a little more extensive than this government proposal, and the government's proposal in itself is a good example of our matriculation examination having to live in the way the world lives. Of course, the question arises as to how our matriculation examination will deal with the corresponding qualifications in other countries again, and then we will have to ask how Finnish young people will be in an equal position when they start applying for a place in higher education, whether it is in Finland or elsewhere in the world. As far as the development of our national level is concerned, it is worth asking how our matriculation examination will also be a better key to further education in higher education, but at the same time we should also ask what we are doing about the applicant families that have accumulated in our higher education institutions over the last few years, and we also have a responsibility for these young people, such as future young people who come to higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u9	Mr President! This government proposal itself is very good. As has been said here, it is essentially of a technical nature. Well, it is understandable that this recent presentation by President Lehikoinen's working group on the renewal of the matriculation examination has now emerged in the debate. I have not been able to read that group’s proposal so that I am more dependent on press reports. But in this context, I would like to emphasise in particular the importance of the general role and importance of the matriculation examination. So I am one of those humanists and social scientists who do not welcome the fact that the importance of history, the history of ideas, the history of culture, the historical consciousness above all is being underestimated. That is why, as Social Democrats, we want to look at this reform from this framework as well, so that this general task is maintained and strengthened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u10	Madam President! Very good speeches have been made here. Representative Lauslahti raised the importance of this matriculation examination in the future as the main criterion for access to the university and also raised concerns about what to do with those who are already in line there. That is why I think it is important to take care of sufficiently long transition periods when there are bigger reforms, and there must be other routes in the future than the matriculation examination as a condition for admission.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u11	Mr President! Although these speeches are quite far removed from this actual government bill, which is technical, we must have a serious debate in society about what kind of matriculation examination we want in the future. Mr Gustafsson, an experienced Member of Parliament, whom I very much appreciated, rightly spoke of the issue of humanities and social sciences, and therefore of growth as a human being. It has been said that during the matriculation examination the person is the wisest, and this should be kept high value. It is then that we are on a false path, if we go as early as the beginning of upper secondary school studies, to aim only for the successful study of certain subjects and then pass as if some others were useless. This is something that may then come to one side of life and, in the worst case scenario, leads to the creation of giants of some fields of knowledge but, in many ways, to a comprehensive understanding of humanity, of midgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u12	Madam President! Although this is indeed a slightly more technical issue, I, too, wanted to take part in this speech, inspired by Mr Gustafsson, that I think we are talking about a very important issue when we talk about the matriculation examination, the importance of it and the fact that it should give us a specific opportunity to live, to understand things in a comprehensive way. And it is at that time that these humanistic priorities — education, history and also this growing human being, as Mr Kivelä said in his excellent speech earlier — are very important. I, too, am included in the class — if that is the case — which sees this comprehensiveness. And when it was said that a youth is wise at the time of the matriculation exams, it is probably also most curious, and then it is also very important to give such a doctrine and, in a way, education to life, that a person learns to be a curious, critical world citizen independently, and in the same way also to understand entities, history, society, and humanist priorities in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u13	Mr President! Actually, when we were talking about high school and high school, I would have reminded you that high school students The Federation has requested voluntary learning of Finnish languages as well as voluntary learning of Swedish. I live in Hyvinkää, and our youth council was asked whether, if this language experiment were to come, would it be? The City of Hyvinkää is ready to take this experiment on the voluntary nature of another national language, and the Youth Council in Hyvinkää welcomed this very much. I wish the government would hurry up with that presentation on these language experiments. It is expected, and particularly those to whom this is directed, that these experiments will be sought. When we always talk about the fact that we should listen to those to whom decisions apply, it would be a very good thing that this too should progress. This would also release resources for people to target other substances or other languages according to their own preferences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u14	Mr President! As far as the matriculation examination is concerned, I would like to return to the points of view of the representatives who made valuable comments, and I would like to point out that the matriculation examination is also a very important part of the future in the way in which higher education is introduced. At the same time, however, it is essential to ensure that students who have not, for example, yet awakened in high school to get excellent grades should continue to have the opportunity to enter higher education through other paths, for example by completing part of their studies through an open method and thereby stepping up their studies — or, if necessary, entrance tests — and may say that we have certain areas where there is also a need for aptitude tests to supplement these admission criteria. In that regard, it is always the place to say that it is not only enough to reform the matriculation examination, but also, above all, to look at what is done there during our upper secondary school studies and in what way our entire upper secondary school should be developed, so that the academic qualifications for entering higher education are strong enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u15	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal before us is a technical and good one, a necessary one. But in future we will need to discuss this matriculation examination a little more widely. Just as Vice-President Lauslahti of the Committee has just said, there is a need to discuss the development of upper secondary school. I think this conversation is getting pretty close. Personally, I would think that the matriculation examination would not necessarily be the only or most important subject of development, but rather I would see it so that we would go there to build such a portfolio-type thinking, in which, from the first year onwards, the student will build himself a knowledge based on essays, develop his/her skills during the second year of study, in the third year he/she is already in a minigrade, and this portfolio would then be relevant when applying for university studies. It could be the best way to develop that degree. A matriculation examination is also needed, but perhaps this kind of portfolio-type thinking specifically in relation to postgraduate studies could be the best and develop the most upper secondary school. Then the development would not only take place on the terms of the matriculation exams, but would be able to genuinely cross the boundaries of the subject and move forward on the basis of the student's own strengths, even to specialise and find his/her own area of competence as early as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u16	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech by the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, and we very much agree. In fact, many of us have this type of art and art, but we do not have those young people whose strengths can be found, for example, in the real materials or languages or others raised by former Minister Gustafsson, so it would be good to have the same kind of activity, interest and perhaps some kind of display there — I agree with that. Mr Gustafsson, who raised this real issue: Here's the president. This is precisely the direction in which the proposal under Lehikoinen is going. But I could even agree with Mr Gustafsson that an even fairer step could be taken, since in this presentation the range would change so that, now that the other three tests can be selected from among mathematics, another domestic language, a foreign language and a real subject, then there would be one of the mandatory ones instead of a real one, either two real tests or one real experiment and one test of a foreign language. This could be even more stringent and perhaps even more real-oriented, but it is here that this is the idea, in the presentation made by President Lehikoinen's working group, which was presented by former Minister Gustafsson and which I myself would also like to strongly support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u17	Mr President! It has been a pleasure to hear these speeches, and this proposal itself is positive, and I would like to see a wider move in this direction, and I am talking here about the flexibility of the boundaries between subjects and schools. In other words, when we have a degree and many educational institutions have, for example, the proportion of subjects who choose freely, these qualifications could be read in the best interests of the student and integrated as well, because it is now the case that working life is fragmented, and when you do one degree and you may have to study another, there are very large credits in it. This is a good example of the fact that one can also be considered worthy of an equivalent degree and that it can carry out certain things, and I would like our study system to have the courage to go even further in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u18	Mr President! This government proposal is a good one. The matriculation examination needs to be developed, and it needs to come to today. The matriculation examination will be carried out electronically in the future. It must be vigilant, as equality must be ensured throughout Finland. I am thinking mainly of this technical performance, the equipment and instructions to them must be equal throughout Finland. When the students have been asked about the electronic matriculation examination, many have been a little uncertain about their performance, so this transition to this electronic must then be well prepared and must not then come up against such problems in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u19	Mr President! Inspired by the excellent speech from the Chairman of the Committee on Education, Mr Puumala, on the construction of these portfolios, I would like to continue by saying that we are not just breaking the limits of the subject in high school. In this regard, Mr Heinonen made it clear in his first speech that the working group, which published its proposal yesterday, also proposed that there should be sections of our matriculation examination where there will be questions that go beyond the subject. But it is equally appropriate to ask in what way the boundaries between upper secondary and higher education are also being broken and obscured more closely, so that it can then be as low a step towards that higher education as possible for our young people, and in this respect we need to find new ways of working together in the form of closer cooperation models between upper secondary schools and higher education. Here's an example: For example, Turku has agreed between the University of Turku and the City of Turku that courses at Turku's upper secondary schools can be studied at the University of Turku and that they can also be read in later studies. It also speeds up graduation from higher education and also the fact that young people find their future dream profession in an easier way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u20	Mr President! From my own comments on my children, it would be very good if it were fair to study in the whole country, for example, that languages could be chosen elsewhere as much as in the capital region, and that schools would have the resources to allow students to attend the courses they have chosen. Now that is not the case. Not all courses are suitable, or then these courses have to be moved terribly far away and things move on, as it were — the current interest here and now is kind of missed. Something else should be done about this. Then this consideration of other qualifications is indeed an important issue. The fact is that some of them, of course, go from comprehensive school not to upper secondary school but to other secondary education places. It would be a very good thing that if you complete a degree equivalent to what a matriculation examination is, three years of education, you could also apply for it in areas other than that of your own, for example, in such a way that if you got local nursing training, that way would not be necessarily a nurse, but could be an economist, for example. So you could apply elsewhere than what basic education is. That would be a very good thing. With great joy, then, I also accept the possibility of having a couple of real subjects, one foreign language and one domestic language, which are mandatory to write when a matriculation examination is being carried out. It must be borne in mind that not everyone who writes for a matriculation examination applies to universities. Some go to higher education institutions, some go to a slightly lower level of education, some want to study arts, some want to study handicrafts. It should also be possible to give them the kind of value they deserve in this country, because the fact is that we need all people, and it would be very good if we were to be able to keep our young people equal and equal in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u21	Madam President! It was convenient that the previous speaker concluded his speech with an equal opportunity for education. In this speech, I myself had been thinking of underlining the fact, ladies and gentlemen. We have spoken extremely well here on the subject of the matriculation examination, on the subject of young people's opportunities, on the subject of a different future. We will now have a real decision-making place again next week for the government parties. The decisions of the spending limits committee and the spending limits committee will then be decided, among other things, on the financing of education, whether at upper secondary school or vocational education, universities, comprehensive schools, the basic pillars of equality. And I am now appealing — and I am taking this opportunity because this debate here has started so widely and there are so many representatives of the government parties — that you can act in the spending limits debate now in the direction that these unreasonable cuts in education are being cancelled, that there is going to be a setback, that there is now going to be a bit of such a kick in the future. Make wise decisions in the spending limits, because as long as the training cuts are at this level throughout
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u22	Mr President! Fortunately, we haven't had to operate on high school this season. In fact, at the moment, there is also a financial reform of the special school, which does not in itself contain any cuts, but it is being reformed. Okay, back to this. The government's proposal as such is to be welcomed, but since there has already been a wider debate on the reform of upper secondary schools and the matriculation examination, I will do so myself. In upper secondary schools, there are at least three important tasks: education and then providing the necessary knowledge and skills for further studies. And the third, even more important task, which is perhaps the most important task of our entire school system, is to teach you how to learn life-long. We have different kinds of people, students, in high school, and we must remember that even at this time, for example, there are quite a lot of compulsory courses left unread, because we want to emphasise a specific area. And on the other hand, we've got a high school class full swing. It will certainly also be possible to introduce these best practices more widely in the future without jeopardising the important role of upper secondary school.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u23	President! This has been a really good conversation. And I am not bad at all about what Mr Viitanen said. Of course this is a government-opposition issue. Indeed, no one feels that these training cuts are nice and pleasant, and they are not now excused with a great heart. Bad things, and while it goes on after the last government. There have been many points where the word 'cooperation' has been mentioned. On the one hand, there has been talk of cooperation between subjects, integration between subjects, and on the other hand, there has been talk of cooperation between educational institutions. This is very important, to which Mr Lauslahti has already referred, for example, that some university-level studies could be carried out during the upper secondary school stage. I myself have spoken with some university principals about the possibility that high school students would have a kind of tet-opportunity for a week at two universities and a curious nose to smell that university atmosphere. In this way, perhaps wrong choices would be avoided when information was originally available. And then, yes, the admission test system needs to be reformed. Professor Lonka of the past, probably more than a decade ago, said that he was not enthusiastic about any male quotas in teacher training, but he needed a kind of rucksack quota to get a little different teacher personalities. For example, I think it is good for those who are not necessarily students of six boarders and tens in school, that not everyone should be selected on the basis of an admission test plus a starting point, but some would be selected on the basis of an admission test alone, because these may have highly motivated applicants in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u24	Mr President! I asked for the floor after Mr Gustafsson and Mr Lauslahti's speeches, which I thought were impossible and good. I myself was a math student, and when I think about that school age now and again, I would not go too far to emphasize the importance of the matriculation examination in moving to college, as I did in the past. When you think that these boys haven't changed much since I was in school, and there is still inequality between girls and boys, I would think it's important to have that transitional abundance: how to move from the matriculation examination to the university. And although I am a mathist, I would also like to emphasise the great importance of culture, real materials, art and education. It is extremely important for human development. No matter how far he progresses in his life in a narrower way, he must know his basis: in what way Finnishness, how our art, how this entity has been born and what must be preserved. Although I am a mathist and am in favour of more mathematical subjects in schools, I am not at all a warm recommendation for this voluntary service. Rather, I am also in favour of forced Swedish because — at least in view of the world — which was a little voluntary, we boys went on the back of a moped then, or today for our own hobbies. We all have to study basic studies in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u26	Madam President! The matriculation examination is the same for all pupils in Finland and its weight should be even higher in the future when compared to these entrance exams. The maintenance of equality in education is therefore extremely important, the fact that all pupils have the same test, whether they are studying in small upper secondary schools in Northern or Eastern Finland or in all possible rankings in upper secondary schools in Southern Finland. Although there has been a debate here about the fact that these training cuts have not been directly targeted at upper secondary schools, however, decisions have been made in municipalities that, for example, as Mr Tolppanen has pointed out very well here, the possibilities of reading different languages may be limited in small upper secondary schools and have ended up, among other things, in so-called semi-secondary courses, where students then have to study, say, for example, a course in French, half independently. However, we must give a hat to all those students in the slightly less common languages of small upper secondary schools who are able to work through these kinds of situations, because somehow at least this way from outside thinks that perhaps learning some real subject as a semi-secondary course might be much easier than going through courses in these languages, for example. I would like to see this type of cut-back, for example, in the art school in my own municipality of Lapland, avoided, and yes, the look will turn to this Parliament and, in particular, the government, which, in this educational policy line, has contributed to the realisation of these things at the municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u27	Mr President! I really listened so hard that I hardly noticed that my turn was already here. It has been said here that we are now looking at Parliament and the government parties, and indeed the possibility of doing something about the cuts in education is well at hand — we are about to have a spending limits debate — and I would like to put some pressure on my part. In this regard, President, I would like to thank Mr Juhani for his fine speech. It was very important that he recognised the importance of culture and arts and arts to the creativity and growth of man and thus to the well-being of society as a whole. I fully agree with those words and I would like to say that the floor is excellent. It's too bad he could go, but I'm sure he'll get it. And I think Mr Kivelä said quite honestly that no one here would be happy to do these training cuts. It is good that you said, thank you for that, and that is why I am now encouraging you — Mr Kivelä and the whole group of government parties, which is here in a large number of places today — to work in the debate on the budgetary framework in such a way as to cancel these cuts in education at the worst.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u30	Mr President! Now that some of this went to the higher education world, it is good to remember that half of the applicants are left out of doors each year. Half the applicants are excluded every year. In 2010, for example, 100,000 young people were excluded from the university’s doors. This is a big problem for us. There has to be some way to deal with this. Of course, there can be many opinions as to whether the admission test system is good or not, but the fact is that the admission test system makes it possible for some of the books to be memorized in order to be able to respond in such a way that the pike is a fish. It's a fish, but it would be nice if we remembered it after that. In addition, very many take very long training courses, even one year long, to get to the university. That is, of course, one way, but is it a sensible way — it would be good to think about it. It would also be a good idea to consider whether we could have a system similar to that of time in many European countries, that everyone who wants to get in and that is what happens when they actually study there. In this same context, it could then be said that we would once again raise to some level a lower university degree which today does not seem to be much appreciated, but needs to obtain that higher degree. Then the possibility of a little more free movement within the university from one subject to another. They're still pretty young when they get in there. And then there is another important change that I think should be made: we should make it a little shorter than these periods of study. Yes, even in a slightly shorter period than seven years will receive a master's degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u31	Mr President! Congressman Viitanen here asked me to cancel the training cuts. Maybe he meant what he was doing himself. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u32	Madam President! This issue of training surgery has often been dealt with here. Mr Ala-Nissila, you are in the same committee as I, the Committee on Finance, and I am sure you can sign that there are not very many experts there — not economists, education experts or anyone — who said that it would be wise or even justified to operate at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u33	Madam Speaker! The center is indeed a civilised party. We always stand up for education, that is clear. To this end, we have put Finland in good shape that education can also be funded in the future. After all, spending on education increased significantly in the first decade of the millennium; there is no point in saying otherwise. After all, your objection is such nonsense populism: that part of Sitra's capital would be taken away. That is precisely research and training, and in the year of independence you would have taken half of it as a general budget for one-off expenditure. I'd use the word "fool populism."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u34	Mr President! Now that we are talking about education, I would say that this nonsense populism, which Mr Ala-Nissila is referring to here, would mean, among other things, that we would invest in fixing home schools. Would this not be the time to put the jobs of children and the jobs of teachers, that is, the schools in order? Now, if there were ever any grounds to repair mold schools, to fix day care centres, libraries. Here's our choice. I am very sorry that Mr Ala-Nissila wants to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of requests for answers here, but I would remind you that this very subject is the completion of the German matriculation examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u37	Mr President! Indeed, we are a long way from the German international matriculation examination, but I cannot help saying in this connection that it has been said by the leaders of the government that no more surgery will be done, and it has been carefully opened up that even when there is a squirrely division, education will be the recipient of the priorities there. But I cannot bear to be in this context, Mr Viitanen, without also saying that as important a matter as fixing mold schools is, we should find out more in society what causes it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u39	Now, Congressman Anttila from the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u40	Mr President! It was said here that we should find out what caused the mold. The report of the Audit Committee can be found here. It is a 50 billion-dollar job when the mold schools or mold buildings are repaired. But I actually asked to speak at the time of the debate on this matriculation examination. I would remind you of such an important point that it is very important for Finland to continue to maintain equality in education. Everyone must have the right to study as far as zeal is sufficient and opportunities are sufficient. Against that background, if you can move forward on the basis of your matriculation examination alone, it will now divide people into successful and less successful people. That is why there must be different routes so that everyone has that equal opportunity to move forward in their careers. Then I agree with Mr Ala-Nissilani when he said that education is needed in the future. We all need to update the information. We MEPs also need to update our information. So we are in a society where there is a need for continuous education for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u41	Madam President! This bill is very good and well-founded. The upper secondary school is becoming international, as is our society as a whole, at a fierce pace, and it is incredibly important that the situation in upper secondary school is achieved that even international degrees are compared to a Finnish matriculation examination. This is the way. It is also extremely important to emphasise the position of small upper secondary schools in this area, because in small upper secondary schools there is a very valuable work done in Finnish rural areas around Finland, including very high-quality work in my municipality of Ilomants. It has long been observed there that this high-school education is also of great benefit to our Finnish society throughout Finland. In this context, it is necessary to mention that, after the use of secondary education, for example, in the municipality of Ilomants, a lot of the same teachers, achieve double benefits, the high level of benefit of obtaining qualified teachers both in upper secondary school and in secondary school, which allows young people to move through secondary school to wherever their education and abilities and will are directed. It would be important to remember, however, that the economy should be in order, as Mr Viitanen has pointed out in this debate, quite strongly. I will simply say that if we do not keep the Finnish economy in order, then there will be savings that Mr Viitanen does not even want, because we are still under constant review by international rating agencies. If we fail in that work, the cuts that have now been made, which the party represented by Mr Viitanen has sometimes done and what the current government has done, will be child's play alongside it if we do not put the economy in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u42	Mr President! Unfortunately, we have to go to this subject, which stated that the government has made savings. The government hasn't made any savings in high school. 37 million were added to the savings within the system of central government transfers in order to avoid these savings. In this connection, Mr Essayah must be answered again that we had the municipal elections. The financing and operating conditions of upper secondary schools are the responsibility of each of our municipalities. It is now up to us to ensure that the upper secondary schools in our municipalities have sufficient resources to carry out the task they deserve, and preferably by investing more in upper secondary school education in their own communities and making decisions, whether in the government or in the opposition. There's no point in blaming the government, but look in the mirror as well. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u43	Mr President! I would now like to remind you that the results of the learning are also international. It includes both German and Finnish and other results, and here I am referring to the Pisa results, which today are very cold reading. It used to be very honorable to us. And when we know that some of the students leave primary school with such poor reading skills that they cannot even read one book from start to finish, we are on a rather worrying path. The sitting government has cut out of education, and we can't get anywhere from it. The sitting government cannot go behind the backs of the previous governments and say that you did, too. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u44	Madam President! Indeed, reading is a very important skill, and strangely enough, we actually have a national Reading Week this week, which is spent in schools and libraries. I hope that the Members of Parliament will also have time to read non-documentary texts. International mobility, globalisation, a more mosaic-oriented society, is a global trend. It is also visible in Finland. International cooperation, reading for training between different countries, is a development in which we must be involved, and this government proposal responds to that very cry. In my own town, I'm looking for rights to IB High School, and I'm hoping the Ministry can help me with that. Mr Viitanen raised the issue of mold. Now that the mayor is changing in Tampere, I encourage you to take this school building and renovation to the mayor's programme even more strongly. It is also a value choice and, of course, an economic issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u45	Mr President! I'm just trying to be very careful to say that I wouldn't wake up any more heated discussion: Mr. Tolppanen, you were kind of criticizing yourself, you were still a Finnish fundamentalist at the time. And when the Reading Week is, I read in that Minutes that you voted in favour of this government programme, where these unfortunate educational cuts are. Why were they better then that you supported them, but now you no longer do? Why did you not object to them when you were at the tables where you could have influenced them? Mr President! The only reason I really wanted to take the floor was because Mr Anttila's speech could give the impression — when I said this myself — that the matriculation examination was the president of this institution. Even with the presentation of the Lehikoinen Group, there would be a stronger way to further studies in the future. Under no circumstances would that mean closing down the entrance exam. In other words, these two paths would naturally be kept open, but it would be precisely such a question of equality, justice and the economy for many that we no longer need those expensive training courses, but that we could demonstrate the learning and knowledge that we have acquired during early childhood education, primary school and high school. It could be pointed out, and it could be used to move forward. At the moment we are in a somewhat unequal situation, for example in mathematics and physics, and perhaps in some languages, these roads are much easier to open than for someone else. And that is why it is good that we make these models, which also open the way on the basis of the high school studies that have been shown here. But under no circumstances will the entrance test be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u46	Mr President! Of course, in the last period, I cannot be responsible for the actions of other government parties except where I was, and I was indeed in the True Finns. I have to say, as you may have noticed, that I have changed parties. And why? Because I was not satisfied with the politics of the Finns. I changed the party, and I switched to a party where I felt that I could do the kind of politics I wanted to do. And still, I would say that this sitting government cannot go behind the backs of the former governments and say that you also cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u49	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen, I did not say anything about the last season, but I spoke about this period, and in this period you were still basic Finnish at first. And during this period you were about to approve this government programme, where are these unfortunate cuts, which are not easy for anyone to defend or in any way to keep good. They have been difficult, repulsive. Mr Tolppanen, you have just criticised them, but you have been in the ranks of the Finns of Peru during the government programme negotiations where they have been decided between the three parties. That's not gonna get you anywhere. I was not talking about last season, about last season's cuts, but about this period, and you have been accepting those cuts. This can be checked in the parliamentary minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u50	Madam President! Just for this last debate: when you said, Mr Heinonen, that these are difficult and repugnant cuts, welcome to the SDP. You too will be happy to become a member of our parliamentary group, and then there will be no need to make these repulsive and difficult decisions. I recommend it. I recommend, especially when it comes to this, that your party, like everyone else, gave the promise of education written on the note that education will no longer be cut off. Here we go. Representative Mr Kivela has just drawn attention to an absolutely essential point when he said that, in previous debates in the government parties, among other things, it has been flashed in this Chamber that if there are even small opportunities for squirrelry, we can return to those training cuts. The SDP has asked the Minister for Education a number of times whether you intend to withdraw these large savings in education. We have not received an answer, but, like Mr Kivelä, I remember that there has been a flash of hopes from the government parties that cuts in education can be cancelled. That is why I wanted to raise this to the debate today, because the spending limits debate is coming next week, and I wanted to remind you that we are following closely and we also want measures from you. If these repugnant and unpleasant cuts continue, I hope that others will also make the same wise decisions and say to the government that this is not going to happen and that the SDP has a better line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u52	Mr President! Education cuts are difficult, and of course we admit it. But the goal is to get our country's economy back on its feet. No one deliberately makes these cuts, but the intention is that the services will continue to play in the future, and then there will be some cuts to be made. Everyone must participate in these efforts, and every party must participate in them. But you can see the light, and let's see, of course, right away we will intervene, and we will forget about the cuts in the future if we can only make the economy rise. I am a supporter of the free choice of languages, just like Mr Meri, who raised this free choice of languages here earlier in the debate. I therefore hope that this language experiment will become as extensive as possible and be carried out in as many places as possible, as is the case with the government programme, that the experiment will come. When I was a kid, I studied Swedish for eight years. In that world language was studied so that grammar was well understood, could be written, but that speaking remained in the position of the stepchildren. In future matriculation examination it has been developed and will be developed in such a way that this oral expression is given a great deal of attention, and I think it is a very good development. You have to be able to speak the language, too. Of course, grammar is a good basis, but it must be able to speak, and more attention will be paid to it in future in the matriculation examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u53	Madam President! The harmonisation of matriculation examinations in terms of their rights, which is basically what this bill is all about, is right and worthy of support. The IB High School in Espoo has produced a number of international successes and has demonstrated its relevance and necessity over the years. However, this law is also a very important point of view, which I believe has not yet been discussed here, and it is above all the future of private schools in Finland as a complement to our so-called state education system. This bill now states in the explanatory memorandum how the National Board of Education has carefully examined the curricula of the German school, and this law is also made particularly by the comparison of the curricula of the Finnish educational system and the curricula of the German educational system and the combination of the two here now presents practical solutions as to how they could work. I very much welcome this. As has been said here, Finland is rapidly internationalising and this opening-up and integration of different teaching opportunities at European level is a welcome addition to the Finnish education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u54	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, you said that I was in the process of approving the government programme and that I was involved in the government negotiations — in fact, I was not, not once. It must have been because my opinions were not wanted, because it was known that they were probably not exactly the same as those of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u57	Madam President! In this regard, I would like to say that while there were high school tours here and I went to many high schools during January, when there were tours in different places, the situation in international high schools really came up that young people today want to genuinely study languages. I greatly encouraged them to study languages because it is such a thing that never goes out of fashion, and it will always be timely in their future assignments. Such legislative proposals, which are now being discussed, are very much to be welcomed, and I hope that this issue will be dealt with quickly in this House and that we will encourage everyone, by our own example, to study languages and to internationalise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u58	Madam President! I had to ask for one last speech because it is a positive one. First of all, I forgot to tell Mr Kiuru earlier that, thanks for the tip, I believe that the future mayor of SD is just about to do an employment-oriented mayor's programme. That's what we've been talking about a lot. You have just mentioned these high school tours, and I myself was going around a couple of schools in January, as all of us, including the President, were, and I find it quite attractive when children always ask the smartest, the best, the finest questions. I do want to say out loud that I loved it when I went to class, where there were quite small cracks, and then they asked the MP if it was necessary to be civilised to be a congressman. I think it was a great question, and then I said that it is certainly not a bad thing for the honourable person, but the most important thing is that we all have the culture of the heart. In my opinion, this wonderful question for a child is such that it can hopefully well point this way forward, that we will remember the importance of education in the future, and that is how we want to create a good future for our children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u59	Madam President! A little goes beyond this order of things, but when Pia Viitanen here mentioned my name and talked about the culture of the heart, now these elections have been held and the mayor's programme there in Tampere is very much sung and I believe that Pia Viitanen as a potential mayor or...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u60	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u61	Mr President! In this previous debate, many representatives referred to these difficult cuts in education. It just occurred to me what would be the kind of surgery that would be easy. Heinonen already signed that well, cutting hair can be easy, at least for us men. Mr President! One in six university students has a child or children. The amount of the allowance is different from other basic benefits, so that the amount of the allowance is not affected by the custody of the child or by the number of children. In other Nordic countries, family students have been taken into account by means of care-sharing breeds or higher income limits. In Finland, too, there has previously been an increase in the number of guardians, but it was abolished in the context of the student support reform in 92. The student allowance cuts and changes to benefits decided on by the Board of Directors may mean a loss of more than EUR 1000 per year for the student family. The operations will take effect in August 2017. Mr President! In their alternative budget for this year, the Christian Democrats proposed that every student who is a child's guardian should receive a EUR 200 guardian's allowance for the month of study grant. The combination of family and study should be facilitated by a new parental allowance for family students. I think that the government should take up this proposal in the forthcoming interim debate. It would now be important to give a positive signal to family students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u62	President! It's like a continuation of that conversation. These student support cuts are certainly not pleasant things. At the same time, however, it must be remembered that nearly one billion people support Finnish students on an annual basis, and even after the cuts, the Finnish system is quite generous. But as far as this bill is concerned: I guess this is where your hands are all the way up to your elbows that Kela is doing this job. Not that Kela does not have the know-how, know-how for this, but this transfer of social affairs, the transfer of livelihoods, has brought to Kela some of those "removable" ideas. But let us hope now — and not just be on the 'hope we hope' line, but yes, Kela must take care of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u63	Madam President! This government proposal aims at one important goal of the Government Programme, the dismantling of red tape. Kela has been robbed in this matter of income support recently with quite a hard hand, probably with some reason, but it was a huge rush when the whole matter of income support was transferred to Kela, and it caused this huge work jam. Well, according to the press reports, processing times are shortening so that within about a week, the application becomes a decision on that matter. And this matter of student support, which is the main point of this government proposal: It is a great thing that this is the removal of this unnecessary bureaucracy between the Student Support Board, that is, when the educational institutions report this application to Kela, then through the existing files this will be updated quickly and the decision will be born quickly. A very well-supported de-bureaucratic proposal. In this context, I would just like to add that — as many students today study hard and receive the student allowance in addition and, under certain circumstances, that the student’s hard work can then be punished for the fact that his student’s student’s financial aid will be recovered at a later stage — the limits will be checked by the little one to ensure that the hard-working student is not immediately vaccinated for the extra 100 or 200 euros per year which he obtains during his summer vacation, for example. However, with his own activity and diligence, he has wanted to show that he wants to work for Finnish society, and if he immediately becomes a student allowance, I do not like it. At least there is no incentive in that, in my opinion, and I hope that it will be addressed in the near future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u64	Madam President! Transferring student support from educational institutions to Kela is probably justified in order to simplify this administration and perhaps eliminate overlapping activities. But one thing that is also raised in this government proposal is that this reduces the personal service that students receive in higher education institutions. In future, only general advice would be provided at universities and the Social Insurance Institution would be responsible for the student’s personal service. And when I myself have wanted to keep this network accessibility on the table — and I have decided that I will — whenever these reforms are carried out, including in this case probably, quite a few, on the network, i.e. on the electronic network, I would like to raise the issue of network accessibility and I would like to see Kela, for example, on the road to ensuring that the services are unimpededed. We have several students, such as the visually impaired or others, who may be in a difficult situation in the face of these online services if this network accessibility does not materialise. I personally agree that family students are in a hard place in our society, and this increase in guardianship is certainly something that should be kept on the table when the economy of our country allows it at all costs. And I have also made a presentation on these income limits, which Mr Hoskonen referred to above. Young students, or even older students, are in fact the only group punished for their hard work in Finland. That is why we might think that the study allowance would be available if studies progressed within the target periods and could slightly tighten the target dates and thus encourage them. So, in a certain way, it would be an indication that the studies go at the rate agreed upon together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u65	Madam President! Of course, the big concern here is how Kela intends to cope with this task when it feels that in a very short time there will be a lot of extra work for it. The transfer is probably justified, as has been said here, and it is good that these practices are clarified and combined, but would it have been good to think about this a little later, because Kela is now so full and employed that this could become all the other activities that slow down? That he could have moved this for maybe one year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u66	Madam President! I heard here that Mr Östman had made an excellent speech on the matter of study aid, and that we, as a party, have long been here in the Chamber to help improve the life situation of family students. As such, this proposal itself is concerned with bringing together this information, but it is indeed important to take into account what was raised in this whole Chamber before Christmas during the debate, namely that we are concerned that, although the changes made to the study allowance in itself have been good for almost everyone, the weakening of the position of family students in particular became a matter of common concern. And in that sense, we must now hope that, now that there is a mid-term debate, there will be a strong signal to the government that this weakening, which is precisely what the family students are facing in relation to this change in the housing allowance issue, will now be corrected, and we consider this to be extremely important. However, if you look at these groups of students, they are the poorest of the so-called poorest, the most vulnerable. So say hello to that board table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u67	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u68	Madam President! The main objective of the Government's proposal is to reform and clarify the adoption of regulations and regulations on cars and their trailers and to transfer the powers for technical requirements which go into great detail. To the Transport Safety Agency, Traf. The proposed legislative amendments are in line with the Government Programme as they would clarify and streamline the administration. I believe that the proposed changes are justified and necessary. The proposal states that the starting point for this amendment to transfer mandates to Trafi has been to form dossiers on the powers to be delegated to the Agency in order to avoid duplication of work between the Ministry and the Agency in preparing and updating provisions. This aims to clarify the division of tasks between the Ministry and Trafi in relation to vehicle requirements and to improve the regulatory drafting of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It is true that the ministry and the agency have done duplication of work, and this reform will hopefully get rid of it. In the future, the Ministry would focus more on legislative work, development and international influence, and the Finnish Transport Safety Agency should use the expertise of the vehicle sector to improve the development of technical requirements for vehicles and to monitor the international development of vehicle regulations. Another good thing about the proposal is that it would have no significant economic impact, since the proposed changes mainly concern the internal division of tasks within the transport administration. As the resource impact of the tasks at Trafi is estimated by the Agency to be an increase of 0.3 man-years, so the impact is very limited for the whole. Following the amendment, all the characteristics of the special transport vehicle would be approved by the same derogation granted by Traf, which would make the procedure more uniform and smooth. The reform of the Vehicle Act, which entered into force from the beginning of 2015, gave Trafi the power to issue regulations on special purpose vehicles, but the amending act did not include the exemption authority referred to here, so the matter was very much under way. This has made it difficult for entrepreneurs to operate. Trafi is now preparing a new provision to replace the Ministry of Transport and Communications Decree on special transport and special transport vehicles. This provision is intended to enter into force at the same time as the amendment to the vehicle law in accordance with this proposal. I believe that this is an important change that will clarify the current situation, and I hope that it will reach its end as soon as possible. A new paragraph 2 would be added, which would provide for derogations from the derogation provided for in paragraph 1. The exemption would no longer be required for a type-approved vehicle which is not subject to a special transport permit under Article 87c of the Road Traffic Code. Furthermore, an exemption would no longer be required for a type-approved vehicle with a record of a special transport permit pursuant to Article 87c of the Road Traffic Act. This amendment would avoid completely unnecessary processing of applications for exemption, i.e. unnecessary red tape, where the necessary information has already been entered in the register when the vehicle is approved. In the future, there would also be no need for an exemption for motorised machinery, since they are simpler in structure and there is no need for a specific needs test to be used for the granting of these exemptions. Article 87c(2) of the Road Transport Act lays down the conditions for granting a special transport permit. It is proposed to add paragraph 5 to Article 2 that the granting of a special transport authorisation should be conditional on the suitability of a vehicle or combination of vehicles for special transport subject to authorisation. This amendment should also allow the use of a special transport permit for lighter transport if the vehicle used for the carriage is suitable and other conditions for granting the authorisation are met. More precisely, more specific limits of measurement and mass would prevent dangerously large transports by vehicles which are not suitable for them and thus ensure road safety in these transports as well. I believe that this is a significant change when it comes to it. Traffic control comes in weekly against the most amazing tunings. Madam President! I welcome the fact that, in future, the requirement for an exemption will not apply to a vehicle which is not subject to registration and which only deviates from the generally accepted values on the road. Such vehicles consist mainly of certain tractor trailers used in agriculture and towed devices to be connected to the tractor. Thus, after the change, the tractor trailer could continue to be used, for example, for the transport of large boats without a special transport permit for the vehicle. I believe that this is a significant change, and this is not intended to reduce the safety requirements for transport, as the requirements for vehicle marking and other safety equipment would continue to apply to such vehicles. Paragraph 1 of the coupling survey would also be specified in such a way that non-universal solutions for electrical wiring, which require switching tests, are generally used in vehicles, would only apply to the connection of electric lines that control the operation of the brakes. This change would remove unnecessary road safety coupling tests for electrical connections that do not control the brakes. I believe that this is a step in the right direction, which will focus on the essential aspect of improving road safety in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u69	Madam President! This government proposal is once again a red tape attempt to streamline the administration and make it effective so that, in this case, the Ministry of Transport abandons the monitoring and control of vehicle technology and the development of various new issues. It is precisely this that would be a matter for the authorities and would not then be a matter for the political institution, which is a very natural development, because I do not believe that the ministry's task is to follow different lights and other matters. It is clearly a matter for the authorities. In this context, Mr President, I would like to see the development of these systems in this country gradually get to that European level, so that such unnecessary nips and the constant follow-up of the various small details of this country can be brought to an end and a long, clear line can be drawn, for example, in the regulation of the various types of transport and, specifically, in the detailed regulations for vehicles. Today there are so many different regulations and different cards, if you're going to do some work, that it's almost impossible to do some small work, unless you have ten different cards in your pocket, and then you have to have special transport permits and other very minor tasks. That is why I warmly support this proposal and hope that we will continue to follow the same line in the future, with bureaucracy being dismantled and action being speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u70	Madam President! I would like to make one point here, which is not highlighted in the proposal, and that is the importance of digitality in the development of these permits and registrations and registrations, so that many special transports, which are also international, can be handled and put into motion already there in the country of origin and in this way ensure that there is no special situation at the borders of Finland with regard to these transports, which cause delays and confusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u71	Mr President! I must now first ask whether this is a point where there is also talk of cyclists and pedestrians, or whether it is paragraph 9. Since there's no number for the government show, now I don't know exactly. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : We will deal with the government proposal33.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u74	Mr President! Indeed, this government has now brought about quite a number of things and laws that are smoother and less stringent. In this context, it has indeed been necessary to examine and review these transport practices. I believe that this government proposal 33 is a good example of how even small things seem to be in order to significantly speed up and lighten the regulations and increase the flow. I support Mr Laukkanen's idea of digitalisation. Today, when you live in a world where your business is increasingly electronic and your documents are also very much electronic, and I'm sure you can also manage various special derogations and arrangements electronically, you would also go to systems that can be in front of you in order to make a future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u75	Mr President! This Government proposal amends the enabling provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Act so that the requirements for cars and trailers that are technologically oriented are transferred from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Transport Safety Agency, Traf. This government proposal is precisely, HE 33, relevant to this matter. This has no financial implications in practice; the changes in the proposal mainly concern the internal division of responsibilities within the transport administration, i.e. the mandate given to Traf. In recent years, however, Traf has already been given a great deal of work to do. Several tasks have been transferred to it over the years, and many have also been asked what resources Trafilla has to carry out these tasks. I sincerely hope that Trafi will also be able to carry out the tasks that are now being assigned there all the time. The Ministry of Transport and Communications will then focus more on the core role of legislation and on strategy, guidance and development, and that is a good line in my view too. These proposed legislative changes will also clarify and streamline the administration in the future. In addition to the changes to the requirements of the regulations, the Government's proposal also specifies the provisions on the special transport permit and the performance of special transport operations. In his own speech, Mr Tolppanen raised matters relating to the Road Traffic Act, and these matters have only been dealt with by the opinion and will come to us in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u76	Mr President! Actually, it's a representative. To the point made by Mrs Tornia, as far as these special transports are concerned, it is to be hoped that they will also make sense of the authorisations which are, in fact, extremely difficult at the moment. We have strict regulations to ensure that the driver must have certain rights, that he can drive the front car and drive the rear car, but since then — I have received information from some entrepreneurs — it may take two weeks to obtain this authorisation. And in view of the fact that such machines as those used in big rock quarryes, roads, and this type of site stand for two weeks waiting for that transfer permit, it is a big cost. I hope that this will also rise to the debate when these reforms are being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u77	Mr President! While I was still reading these statements and taking them into account, it is actually good to take this into account in this debate, which the Finnish Transport Association (SKAL) has pointed out in its opinion. They have raised the matter of the decision of the Ministry of Transport and Communications to repeal the decision on the loading baskets, the loading of vehicles and the fixing of the load. They have considered it important that it remains in force until it is replaced by: The Transport Safety Agency's orders have been issued. Obviously, according to this presentation, this provision is only in preparation, and this should certainly be taken into account at the committee stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u78	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised the issue of special transport permits and perhaps the need to reduce them. Personally, I sincerely agree that this too should be taken into account in the future. Similarly, Mr Hoskonen's own speech earlier raised the so-called licence card jungle in Finland, i.e. that in practice there should be a thick wallet with different license cards in the back pocket before you can even go to work on the site or perform different tasks. I sincerely hope that attention will be paid to this issue. Those cards are also very far from safety-at-work issues, i.e. safety at work must be taken care of in particular. But then, whether all cards are necessarily needed, whether there should be so many: there would probably also be a digital future, so that from one database
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u79	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u80	Mr President! We will discuss the report of the Library of Parliament for 2016. It is a coincidence that this same week we are spending a national academic week. Libraries and schools in particular organise events suitable for the theme. Good and rewarding semesters for all of us! The basic tasks of the Parliamentary Library are defined in the Act on the Library of Parliament and in more detail in the Statute. The library serves parliamentary work. It is also the central archive of Parliament. In addition, the tasks include acting as a central library for legal information, social information and parliamentary information. The strategy of the Parliamentary Library was renewed during the reporting year. According to it, the library’s customers are divided into three main categories: core customers, external core customers and external customers. The first two groups, namely the agencies and officials belonging to the core customers, find the services of the Parliamentary Library, such as demanding and extensive information searches. On the other hand, the public and open role of the library is not yet sufficiently known in the external customer group. The Library of Parliament is also open to all personal customers. In this respect, I also hope that colleagues will be active, and you can share this information with your people. So the Library of Parliament is open to all personal customers. The Board of Directors of the Parliamentary Library took a stand in favour of open and reliable information during the reporting year. For our part, we wanted to support the main Finnish journalists and their public opinion on behalf of reliable media. Literacy and education, reliable and free media, freedom of speech, libraries, voting rights, democracy, journalists' rights to do their work without pressure, incorruptibility and transparency of administration, these are the factors that make up all the precious and beautiful things we want to respect during the 100th anniversary of our independence. We must also work on these factors and be constantly awake. There are plenty of examples in Europe and in the area around it that indicate the erosion of values and rights that we take for granted. The role of libraries has changed and changed as a result of digitalisation. Physical visits are partly replaced by roaming and digital material. For example, the information packages for legal projects published on the website of the Library of Parliament are of wide interest to the public. The Library of Parliament also organises education. Over 1100 people participated in the data management training during the reporting year. Exhibitions at the library premises have also attracted interest in the national media. In the reporting year, 12 parliamentary interviews and an interview with one retired official were conducted in the Veteran MPs’ memory archive. The Board of Directors of the Library decided in October 2016 that an interview with a sitting MP is also possible. It's the investigator's discretion. The Library of Parliament is a prestigious job. There will be a considerable number of applicants for open positions, and the training and work experience of applicants will be excellent. At the end of the year 38 people worked in the library, and the number of employees has been on a small decline in recent years. We seem to have reached or reached a threshold below which it is no longer possible to go so that the task is not jeopardised. Thank you all for the valuable work that has been done well for the library staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u81	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru, for a good introduction. This opus is excellent, thanks to the library staff along with the board. Of course, with some concern, it follows that this number of lending and loan renewals is a continuous minus-mark pole and has continued since 2010, 2011 onwards. I understand that some of this is certainly explained by the fact that the renovation caused the library not to be in operation in that way, and I am sure that what is being said here is being done more and more online. But, on the other hand, I would like to see a little more research into this, and could there be even a small campaign for the library to be open again? It was at least once very popular among students and others when books were well received. With regard to the youth Parliament, I would also like to thank the library, which plays an important role in this with the Presidents of Parliament and with the leadership of Parliament. We have a great number of these clubs in different Finnish schools, and last year, for the tenth time, the Youth Parliament met, then here in the evasive spaces. Mr President! At the end, I would also like to thank you for this matter that is close to my heart, that is, writing history or putting it away. I made this point at the time that Members of Parliament who are sitting could also be interviewed, for example, in the case of such representatives as Zyskowicz or Kanerva, or in the case of Judgments where it seems that Johan Sirén has already planned them here in Parliament and that they are here in the world. It is good that they too can be interviewed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u82	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinos, for your good remarks. Indeed, the library’s government made a small clarification of these interview practices of veteran MPs. The responsibility lies with the scientist, and we trust the opinion of the scientists. Last year, an official was interviewed. Maybe now there's no reason to go to the level of names we've been interviewed. They can be used by researchers once they have received a research permit. This year we are going to interview 12 MPs and possibly 2 veteran MPs who will then be contacted by the researcher and, if they agree, then we will move forward. These studies and interviews are very thorough, with an average duration of eight hours, which means that there must also be plenty of time and energy for the representative. Compared to the international scene, this is a very exceptional way of doing so, for a very long time now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u83	Mr President! Every time we talk about libraries, we talk about something very important. For my part, I would also like to thank Mr Kiuru for his excellent presentation and for the priorities you have raised in this speech. And that speech by Mr Heinonen was not too bad either: it talked about important issues, and it is interesting to hear this very thing that what we have said in this Chamber in the past on these matters and in this point has also moved forward, for example, in relation to these interviews as a whole. I wish the Library of Parliament all the best. The Library of Parliament is very important. It is an important pearl in the fine pearl ribbon of libraries, and I hope that this pearl ribbon will remain a national treasure for us now and in the future. I hope that the decision-makers here in Parliament as well as in the municipalities will be wise enough to take good care of our valuable library institution overall. It is great that the national semester is happening to this very day, when even here in Parliament there is an opportunity to discuss libraries. It is an important issue, and all in all, I would like to see the reading activity of Finns — especially of children, young boys — wind under their wings and even food for the rest of the day. We have talked a lot about the fact that there have been certain challenges here, and that is why I think we are talking about a very, very important issue when we talk about reading people, such as children. Similarly, when we talk about the importance of libraries, we talk about a really big issue, about Finnish history both in this day and in the future. It is true that when we talk about equal opportunities for people, about progress in civilisation, about all that, it is true that I do not exchange two: primary school and libraries. In other words, it is a very valuable matter, and I therefore hope that decisions will be taken to secure the budget of libraries in this economic crisis, to safeguard the conditions under which they operate, and to do the same. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u84	Mr President! From the Library of Parliament, it can be said that it is the beating heart of the Parliament. Not a lot of people go there, but a lot of people feel the power in their cores. It provides information when needed, and it also shows how progressive our nation is. The extensive supply and information packages of the laws to be discussed are indeed an important indication of the functioning of civil society. We have an open opportunity to explore everything that is importantly decided in this house on that very home bench, and it does tell a lot about our society. It was very interesting to read about these interviews with veteran delegates, which have been going on for quite some time, and it raised the question of who gets to see or listen to these interviews. How is it thought to work with them? That is what I would have asked Mr Kiuru. How, then, could one make practical progress in considering that the selection of interviews would actually take place even if the first-period MPs — what have their atmosphere and views on parliamentary work been? It might also be a very interesting matter for some reader and researcher. I would like to highlight this international activity, the international cooperation of parliamentary libraries, which is also a very important part of the library's activities. On that, I would like to ask whether there are any international seminars in libraries in which representatives could participate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u85	Let's give you a response, Mr. Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u86	Mr President! Representative Laukkanen's question about these interviews and their publicity: In fact, the website of the Library of Parliament contains the rules for the use of the interview material of the Memory Information Archive. They are not public in such a way that anyone could at any time go to read them. The research permit will be made available for research purposes mainly in and up the pro-gradu study. The library manager then makes a decision on how to use them. The material borrowed must usually be destroyed after use. Internationalism became a good point. In fact, in the library's board of directors and budget reading we have drawn attention to this aspect of internationalism, to the training aspect of staff, and we are in fact slightly sharpening the line, because internationalism is also crucial in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u87	Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u88	Mr President! The Library of Parliament is indeed a valuable institution. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Library, Mr Kiuru, raised an important issue about the openness of the Library of Parliament to all. I remember myself that when I was studying it was as if it was a secret, that in the Library of Parliament there is a knowledgeable and brilliant service and gets the exam books quickly, even faster than in the Library of the University. Back in the day, if the books were taken, there was usually a book here that didn't have to wait in line. I really hope that this openness will spread and that people will find us here at the Library of Parliament. We have such an era of transparency of information now going on, and it is important that it is not only digital information but also traditional book information and that we also have transparency in this help. The Library of Parliament is an excellent and service institution, even if it provides help in finding information. Now that the theme of the Reading Week is "Give as a gift a reading adventure", perhaps Parliament can, as it were, give as a gift a data adventure in the form of a library. Happy Paper Week, everybody!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u89	Mr President! Indeed, quite good ideas will be thrown out in this debate, and this latter issue of transparency and accessibility is also very important. In fact, that is why I asked for the floor when the future of the library was still a little short in the past, and since we have been talking here, among other things, about these times when we should invest in employment, then, of course, it is also worth renovating and building. So, here too, I would like to remind the government, for example, in the forthcoming spending limits debate, to take into account that, last time we talked about home schools in the previous paragraph, many libraries, for example, would be in need of improvement or even new construction. And last season we were able to complete the last package of measures for the period which was promised to the municipalities, but then there will be no more follow-up, and that is why I would like, and here might be a good hint for the future, that we could also go back to helping the state to build and repair libraries. President! There is one positive thing that I would like to mention here, which relates to libraries in itself and is very important, and this is what I want to say in this Chamber during the centenary year of Finland – I have spoken for it in the past and, as a minister, I have done a great deal for it – and that is the issue of lending compensation. I think it is very good that we have it. During the last period, when the lending compensation was doubled, work was started and a parliamentary working party was set up, which committed itself to bringing this lending compensation to the Nordic level during the formal year, and it has now been implemented. It is important, it is valuable, and otherwise the whole of Parliament has worked hard. I myself, for example, have a long history as a member of the Committee on Finance, for example, as a member of the Committee on Education and Science, and I know that many times we have paid attention to this issue, and it is important and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u90	Mr President! When Mr Viitanen here brought up this renewal of libraries, I cannot agree any more that libraries should live in this time and libraries could be more and more of these diverse meeting places, people's living rooms, and at least we in our own municipality in Nurmijärvi have gone this way. Libraries are organising more and more meetings, various occasions where different people can meet and even have conversations. The library is no longer the place where you just have to be quiet and read and shush — of course it is also important. This week too, Esko Valtaoto is coming to Nurmijärvi to give a lecture, and I hope it will be a much more popular occasion. I also like the idea that libraries can borrow sports equipment, such as walking rods or other types that may not be bought for every family. I believe that this would be the present and would also be a good match for the sharing economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u91	Mr President! Mr Viitanen spoke about this openness and this type of thing and quite rightly. Transparency also involves cooperation. The Central Library of Helsinki is about to be completed on that side of the road, and the Library of Parliament has opened a discussion with the new Central Library, and the aim is to cooperate extensively between the various libraries. The library also invests in the exploitation of visuality and open data. Mr Mäkelä pointed out this idea of meeting places and, in fact, the revised library law adopted about six months ago pointed in this direction that libraries should offer opportunities for local residents and citizens free of charge or with very apparent compensation. It is true that libraries are going in the direction of being such omens of community, freedom of expression and freedom of assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u92	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 4/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u93	Mr President! The proposal proposes to lay down minimum requirements for the Directive on the maximum dimensions and masses of vehicles with regard to the remote identification system for vehicle weight. Such a system would be able to separate vehicles with a weight exceeding the permitted limit from the traffic flow for further inspection. The performance sounds excellent when it comes to it. It is clear that such a system would improve controls, streamline traffic, increase road safety, create a level playing field and create cost savings in road maintenance as traffic overweight decreases. But it also requires your own professional users. Unfortunately, professional heavy traffic controllers are a disappearing resource. At the moment, there are fewer of them than the Saimaan elephants protected. As a result of the presentation, the carrier and the supervisory authorities carrying the load would receive better information from the consignor and the subscriber of the goods on the weight of the container and the swap basket, which would, among other things, reduce the risk of truck drivers carrying unwittingly overload. I think that even better reform would be for recipients of goods to no longer accept overloads. It would also improve road safety. In accordance with the national decision, the proposal would allow automatic weighing equipment to be placed on the road. I think this is an excellent thing, but it continues to require professional supervisors and, as I have already said, they will soon no longer exist. I also believe that it is essential to ensure a level playing field for transport companies to ensure that overloads can be detected and tackled equally also in the case of foreign vehicles. Mr President! The police are monitoring speeds in Finland today as part of a 24-hour international speed surveillance marathon. Surveillance started today at 6:00 a.m. and ends on Thursday morning at the same time. Speed control is important, but so is heavy traffic control. Among other things, it will allow fair competition between companies and reduce the shadow economy. That is also what the MPs who have slaughtered the mobile police have been concerned about in this Chamber in the past. I myself am moved by the consensus between these representatives in their speeches. However, the control of heavy traffic is decreasing, and that is not in anyone's interest. It's time to wake up. While the mobile police were being slaughtered, the statistics on heavy traffic control were also changed in the police. In the past, the monitoring of heavy traffic was carried out in detail: control of the load, control of driving times and rest periods, control of the transport of dangerous goods and so on. Today, working time is only recorded under the general heading of heavy traffic control. At present, it is not known exactly how much working time allocated to traffic control, e.g. control of loads or overloads, will be allocated to traffic control. Hopefully this remote system of vehicle weight recognition will provide light for monitoring and also for statistical purposes. Hopefully, in the future, the police will also be able to provide statistics on heavy goods traffic for those who have asked for it during the human years. At the moment, they are not available to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u94	Mr President! Mr Kulmala brought to our attention the worrying news that professional heavy traffic controllers are rarer than Saimaan elephants. I hope, however, that the situation in Finland is not quite as worrying as it is, but I agree with the fact that it is serious and needs to be taken into account. That is why it is good that this monitoring is now also being facilitated by the setting of a remote identification system. In its report, the committee has stressed that this system must be balanced and must not cause any competitive disadvantage to domestic hauliers, which, in my view, is an important factor to be taken into account when implementing and monitoring this. Furthermore, this committee's report states that, in order to ensure a level playing field for transport undertakings, it may be necessary to assess the use of road surveillance equipment in order to detect the excesses equally in the case of foreign vehicles. This is a very serious point. It is also noted that it is important to take into account the reliability of equipment in Finland’s winter conditions, and this is certainly a fact that only practical experience will give us the certainty and knowledge whether it will actually work as well. Kittilä's drink pack in January.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u95	Mr President! I would like to comment a little on the fact that Metsähallitus estimates that there are approximately 380 Saimaan Norp in Finland at the moment. At the time the mobile police were abolished, there were about 600 mobile police personnel. Some of them have already retired, some have been devolved into various police departments, some are not even doing traffic control work at the moment. At the moment, the police school does not train heavy traffic controllers, unfortunately this is the case. Just the other day, I was informed that there are police stations where the traffic control team no longer has former mobile policemen, that they have actually either retired or moved on to other tasks. Unfortunately, the control of heavy traffic is not that the police stop the truck, ask the driver to see a driver's licence and blow the driver — it is not, in my opinion, the control of heavy traffic, there is no need for such training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-19-ps-39.u96	Thank you for this clarification to Mr Kulmala. I am well aware that this is a professional task and not just anyone can do it, and in that respect I share this concern that training certainly needs to be provided. And if retirement is the status quo here, perhaps it is worth pointing out that we will be training even more competent overseers in the future.
