ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 22/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u2	Mr President! This situation is, in practice, very illustrative at the moment in this Chamber, because our representatives of the government parties are not now presenting this committee's report. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u7	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen. — I felt that there was a joint opposition protest just now, and that is why it was almost 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u8	Mr President! There was hardly any expert in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities who would have supported this government's active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u11	Mr President! This criticism of the Social Democratic MPs suggests that this proposal could not at all improve the employment of unemployed people or the participation in activation measures. The situation of any unemployed person, not to mention the long-term unemployed, is not easy, but I am prepared and willing to publicly challenge the view of the Social Democrats that this would not do anything good. Personally, I am firmly convinced that this activation model will lead to hundreds, perhaps thousands, of unemployed people coming into such short-term employment relationships that will help them to remain at the current level of unemployment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u13	Mr President! I appreciate Mr Zyskowicz's presence, because there are no other representatives of the government parties, not even those who were agreed in committee to be rapporteurs for the committee's report, I believe. You said that hundreds of people, maybe thousands of people, will be able to maintain their unemployment security and get into this job. I also believe that hundreds, perhaps thousands of people, will be able to go to gigs as a result, but we have 272516 unemployed according to the statistics of the Ministry of Employment and Employment, and most of them will not succeed in what this law is aimed at. We have only the sick and disabled unemployed in labour market statistics and more than 40,000 people on unemployment benefit. We have 45,000 long-term unemployed. These are the people who are suffering from this law. Those few may even succeed in finding employment, but the government's own employment estimates are also very low. On the other hand, estimates that income support expenditure will increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u14	Mr President! After all, this objection is based on the fact that these objectives are not completely defeated as such but are considered to be good, but, as this report also states, this presents a huge number of problems. When I know that Mr Zyskowicz is also involved in the work of the Constitutional Committee, you should also pay attention to the concern expressed by the Constitutional Committee with regard to this draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u17	If Mr Zyskowicz takes all these contributions at the same time in this debate and then only Mr Zyskowicz will reply if he does not wish to have an interlocutory speech at some point. So this is what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u18	Mr President! — Although I thought that this debate started with the speech by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, to which Mr Zyskowicz replied, but there are many points of departure. This proposal is memorable and, you might say, shocking: The unemployed who cannot find a job are punished for not finding a job. An unemployed person who has not received a job is punished for not having received a job. This is an incomprehensible application of the Nordic welfare society, an incomprehensible application. Until now, it has been thought that when a person gets into trouble he will be helped, he will be helped to find work, education and his social security, but now government parties will turn this person into a fault and be punished when work has not been found. I understand that the Chamber is empty, there is no minister present and no one but the faithful soldier Ben Zyskowicz wants to defend this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u19	Mr President! What is grotesque about this is that we call an active model that punishes the unemployed in spite of their activity. In other words, despite its own initiative and seeking jobs, it will not be possible to avoid this automatic cutter if it does not happen that the job will not be found. It is also grotesque that this model punishes the unemployed for reasons beyond their control. In practical terms, it is only a question of whether there are enough of these vacancies in the area where the unemployed live and whether there are enough employment-friendly services available — and it is well known that there have been shortcomings in the provision of services for a long time. So if this were, as Mr Zyskowicz said, to encourage the unemployed, why did the government not bring a model based on reward for activity and success?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u20	Mr President! As Mr Zyskowicz said, it is quite clear that this model will employ at least hundreds or perhaps thousands of people, but unfortunately this will not provide enough employment, especially for those who are most in need of work. But, as you said, to employ this will be: Kela itself already estimates up to 260 person-years, as the number of different benefits decisions will increase by up to 770,000, which means that our administration will be congested. Another place where there will be a lot more jobs is the disability pension system, because if you are unemployed and you cannot find work, you cannot employ yourself, you cannot work as an entrepreneur and you cannot manage to get into employment measures, his only way out of this terrible, terrible, active model is to apply for disability pension. And if our 300,000 unemployed are applying for an invalidity pension, it is clear that our disability pension system is congested
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u21	Mr President! I myself have employed the long-term unemployed and disabled people in Lahti as the head of the work centre before I was a Member of Parliament. I think I know pretty well the daily lives of unemployed people to this day. I also feel that an unemployed person wants to be employed. There is a genuine desire to work, to move forward in life, to bring home money and food bags, and perhaps to make some trips abroad and such. But I am just as surprised as Mr Heinäluoma, that there is such a feeling as it would be thought, that it is a crime to be without work and it is criminal to not even seek a job. On the contrary: unemployed people are looking for work, but we have areas where jobs are not only available and not necessarily even employment services. Please note that this presentation has been made completely inside Ring Three, where the labour market may somehow pull, but there is no need to drive far away, at least away from Päijät-Häme, when you notice that it is extremely difficult to get jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u22	Mr President! That is what Mr Andersson described above, and I must say that when we introduced this model of protest from the Socialist Party, it is precisely what it contains and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen very well described what this really is. We are here to blame those people who are not working, who are looking for a job. Why does the government not take paths to make it easier for employment and employment to be more accessible? More stakes in people being able to retrain themselves. The Minister of Finance, Orpo, today wants to lower wages, but we should have set paths, for example, in order to have the opportunity to take earnings-related daily allowance with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u23	Mr President! Perhaps the main criticism of this active model is that it is directed at the most vulnerable people: the long-term unemployed, the part-time and the elderly, as well as people living in areas where it is difficult to find jobs. I understand that there will be no problem for people who are easily employed, but it is these people who are threatened with a permanent income cut. It has been estimated in this proposal itself that, among other things, income support expenditure will increase, and is it not precisely this increase in bureaucracy, even though Mrs Zyskowicz mentioned here that it should be reduced? — But I will go over this in more detail in my next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u24	Mr President! I too find it quite shocking that there really is no one here but Mrs Zyskowicz from the government parties listening to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u27	Mr President! Just as has been said here in several speeches, the government is squatting on people in this way — particularly those who are long-term unemployed, those who lack vocational training, and even if they are looking for work, their chances of getting work are such that it is very difficult. I met someone this week who told me that he's been applying for a job for a long time, living in the countryside. He stated that if this government proposal comes into force, this law will have the effect that he feels that although he tries and tries and if he still does not get the job, he is not fit for society. He simply feels that the control of his life situation and many other things are becoming even more difficult. So the government is also punishing people who are trying to get no work and deepening their problem even further. This is certainly not going to motivate or improve their situation, and in that sense this proposal is likely to cause more problems than what it may pursue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u28	And now, representatives of Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Zyskowicz, in this order. First up, Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We are here to discuss human dignity and human rights. That is why I would have preferred this debate to be conducted by a slightly wider group of parliamentarians and there would also be more representatives of government parties here. Mr President! I myself am from North Karelia with major unemployment, and I can assure you that there will certainly be no job jobs in my own region, no matter how unemployed the people are looking for them, and unfortunately there will not be enough services for everyone either. As I said in my speech, I meet the long-term unemployed on a regular basis, I chair one project steering group and start working there for the unemployed. These people would really like to work, and when I talk to them about this active model, they will feel that this is an act that violates their dignity. This is what makes it unfair and offensive,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u30	Mr President! It was called for a reward for work to be placed in front of or above such sanctions. Well, this is exactly what has been done when it was already laid down a few years ago that an unemployed person can earn EUR 300 a month without reducing his unemployment benefit. And even though this action did not create a single new job in itself, strangely only thousands and tens of thousands of unemployed people have been able to get jobs so that 300 euros a month without losing unemployment benefit — and made money. The aim here is precisely to encourage people to do such jobs — not have to be in their own field, not have to be the work of the same employer — or to take active action. The fact that unemployment benefit will then be reduced by less than 5% if there are no such opportunities does not mean depriving anyone of their dignity or any terrible thing towards anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u31	Mr President! This example of the protective part used by Mr Zyskowicz is actually a good example to clarify this debate. This is an incentive because it encourages those unemployed who have the opportunity to go to work and find those jobs, but it does not weaken the position of those who do not have such opportunities. The problem with the sanctions you have brought is that it penalises all those who fail to get to work or employment-promoting services, even if they do their utmost and their best to find that job. It is unfair because it punishes the unemployed for reasons beyond his control, i.e. factors that he is unable to influence by his own activity, and that is why I find the name of the active model particularly grotesque.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u32	Mr President! Once the duration of unemployment benefit has been extended and certain other reductions in unemployment benefit have been made, you from the left have proved that such reductions do not create any new jobs. Or does anyone think that reducing unemployment security will create new jobs? Well, not to him. But let's face it, with the EUR 300 contribution, there will also be no new jobs, but thousands, tens of thousands of unemployed people, have found jobs. We are talking about incentives to work, and that is what this is all about. I do not envy the position of these people, but everywhere in Finland, everywhere in Finland, there is also an opportunity to find gigs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u35	Reply, Mr Andersson, and then Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u36	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is still confusing two very different models here. This component of protection, which was provided for in the previous period, works because there is scope for employment in the case of the unemployed. It created a clear incentive and an opportunity to take on short-term work as well
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u41	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has a bad vision in this area, of the same magnitude as the majority in the committee. In other words, we are still in a genuine situation where, in a large part of Finland, there is not even the first genuinely open job that could be applied for or selected for. Positive measures should be taken in this regard, i.e. to allow for retraining or further training and thus to improve one's professional skills. Unfortunately, however, it is precisely this money that the government has cut, and worst of all, the next thing we are going to do here in Parliament is to bring a proposal to privatise the entire employment agency and the related services. First, they are transferred to the provinces and then the provinces are forced to place them on the market as services to be purchased. One can only imagine what interest private operators have in taking care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u42	To this part of the debate, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u43	Mr President! Now it is worth considering why we have unemployment benefit, the basic daily allowance for the unemployed. That is because a person who does not have wages is able to make a daily living, to survive, to remain active, to be able to seek employment. Now that unemployment benefits are being cut, the position of this already low - income person will be weakened. And when the income support that this person is going to have is not the protective part that Mr Zyskowiczkin here praised, then it is precisely that, first of all, we weaken the conditions for this person's survival and then, second, we create this kind of incentive fluid. So if the government really wanted to help these people get a job and get into the labour market work aside, then this kind of legislation doesn't really make any sense, doesn't make any sense at all. That is what the government itself admits in these statements. If you read these opinions of the various committees, they shall:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u44	As far as this stage of the debate is concerned, I will now give Mr Zyskowicz a reply. Then we move on to the other contributions that were requested before Mr Zyskowicz's previous reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u45	Mr President! Congressman Andersson: Yes, I think we understand each other pretty much anyway. So with this example of EUR 300, I just wanted to tell you that before it was created, you were absolutely certain of it, I believe that these thousands or tens of thousands of people who, thanks to it, have accepted these jobs had no chance of being employed. Then, when it became profitable enough, we were surprised that thousands and tens of thousands of thousands of people suddenly found these jobs, even though the reform itself did not create a single job, did it not? I am not saying at all that the situation of the unemployed is easy, not to mention the long-term unemployed. The purpose of this reform is, in the same way — but in a negative way, I do not deny — to encourage people to take up jobs, to take up services, because it is rewarded in a certain way by the fact that the benefit does not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u46	Mr President, värderade talman! Good speeches have been made here. The Government's proposal is good in itself and the objectives are worthwhile, but this proposed active model is not the right way to go. The system would treat the unemployed differently depending on their place of residence and the duration of employment. The sufferers would in particular be the disadvantaged in the labour market. Bureaucracy will increase against the government's proposal, and the workload of the labour administration and other authorities will increase. There are other ways of improving employment. I hope the government has thought about that too. Bureaucracy should be reduced, e.g. by entrepreneurship, facilitating, improving employment services and promoting local reconciliation in the workplace. These are the things the government should be driving.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u47	Mr President! Basically, I will stay and think about what our social model is and what our human concept is. Where does the limit of a certain human dignity go, as it were? The higher the position of a person in Finland, the more ready we are to give him options, various incentives in addition to remuneration. But the worse the person is, the more ready we are in this society to accept the whips, whips and various kinds of punishments. Where is the limit that makes a person entitled to encouragement? Where is the limit at which he should be punished without any crime being committed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u48	I can still see the needs of Alanko-Kahiluoto, Andersson and Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Let us then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u49	I will return to this theme of humanity in the sense that, at the moment, labour market support for the unemployed is 73% of the minimum budget. This means that we have an assessment of the poverty line. At the moment, labour market support, the basic daily allowance, does not even reach that threshold of the minimum human budget. This is what the government is doing now. You're still cutting from it. The question is: if you say you are doing this incentive labour policy, where is the incentive when people are driven into an even more crowded situation than they are at present? This is not something you can answer. If, at the same time, you were to increase the funding for employment services there and do what the Constitutional Committee in this opinion, in its text section, requires that we should do so in order to ensure that the unemployed are on an equal footing throughout Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u50	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz continued to refer to this safeguard that the Left Alliance has been pushing for for a long time, and we were in the government at the time it was decided. Why did we want the unemployment benefit to be protected? Because, in the Left Alliance, we understand that there are people who are capable of working among unemployed job seekers who are able to do more short-term jobs or part-time jobs while looking for a job of their own educational background or experience, permanent and full-time. Our view is that unemployment security must be flexible so that it is possible for the unemployed to do more short-term jobs. But the government's misconception is that you believe that every single unemployed job seeker, regardless of the background, can find and do these jobs in every place in Finland. Reality does not seem to be the case, and it is true that all these extremely critical expert statements made on this government proposal are made out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u51	Mr President! Somehow this proposal reflects the government's attitude towards the long-term unemployed, which is precisely the idea that there would be work, but when people do not want to work for them, they must somehow be forced to work there. Not this kind of thinking, this kind of model, can encourage. This will be perceived as punishment. Somehow it seems that the government really does not know what the situation of the long-term unemployed in those provinces is at present. There would be a need for job training, rehabilitation, job search, training. But these measures are not available, and the government does not increase them, but rather reduces them and saves them. The government itself admits that this will be a problem. Otherwise, it would not have written in the estimates that income support expenditure will increase significantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u52	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u53	Mr President! This is indeed to take effect from the beginning of next year, and it is already Christmas weeks. In that sense, it is unfortunate that there are so few representatives of the government parties present. After all, an active model means that if an unemployed job seeker does not find work or receive services, unemployment benefit will be cut by almost 5%. This condition of activity is very unfair, because if we are thinking about my own province of Pirkanmaa, for example, I considered that we have about 30,000 unemployed job seekers, there are nearly 10,000 long-term unemployed and only 4,000 job vacancies. In other words, it is quite clear that these disadvantaged people in particular will not be able to find a job that fulfils the condition of activity, thus threatening to result in a permanent cut in income for them. And as has been discussed here, regional disparities are large and subjective rights to these services have not been included. This committee's proposal for a statement: as Mr Kiljunen has pointed out, it is quite lax, in other words, it cannot really be relied on in any way in this respect. A lot has been said about the impact on employment, and the Committee on Labour also had a very long expert consultation. On the contrary, the impact on employment could not be verified. On the contrary, this was found to increase red tape for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u56	Mr President! All of us in this Chamber are working together to achieve legislation that would be easy to understand and simple to implement; legislation that would not overlap with previous proposals and would not be contradictory in itself; something that would perhaps further reduce governance, encourage people, increase people's well-being. These measures of the laws to be decided here should be realistic, effective, fair and easily implemented. That's what we're after. Nevertheless, here again today we are dealing with an active model which is, in fact, exactly the opposite in all these matters. This model, which requires an activity obligation to be fulfilled — or a reduction of 4.65% for the next 65 days of payment — is very problematic in many respects. A lot of people think it's more of a punishment package than a incentive package. Even the Confederation of Finnish Industries, which was consulted, considers the method chosen to be administratively pregnant. The active model will cut unemployment security for many unemployed people, and the SAK even considers it incompatible with the competitiveness pact. Many find this difficult to understand and complex for customers, including Kela, who is forced to carry out the administration that this law brings. If, in addition to savings, the social policy objective is the well-being of people, it must be said that the active model does not at least increase the well-being of the most vulnerable, even if it should. Listening lawyers even find this difficult to understand for a lawyer. They also consider it a problem that the risk of entrepreneurship increases if the requirement for activity is a certain merit or a certain payment period, because, as everyone who has been an entrepreneur knows, the money may be paid much later than that entrepreneurship period. Or what happens to the unemployed person who has been given a job for the required week a month if the employer does not pay his salary on time? What's gonna happen to him? It should also be clarified how well this is in line with the part-time directive, because those who clearly work part-time are in a less favourable position to comply with this law. There have been many references to the weakest, and there is no need to mention them. Two million Finns have a long-term illness. Of course, this does not mean that two million Finns are incapacitated, but in many of them long-term illness affects work in one way or another. For the most vulnerable unemployed, there are many long-term ills whose pain and illness may vary and whose diagnosiss may not even be identified. As a result of this partial capacity to work, many are not necessarily entitled to an invalidity pension, but on the other hand are not able to find employment or become an entrepreneur. It would therefore be particularly important to ensure that there are also sufficient activation services for those who are difficult to employ, but unfortunately the budget is limited. This has also been required by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, in its own opinion, also asks whether these cuts in appropriations could be avoided if one is able to prove that he has sought employment even though it may not have been successful. A good example of this was found when people were being heard from Vantaa’s TYP, a cross-cutting community service promoting employment. In January to July of this year, they had had 3,500 customers per month and had been able to provide 107 of these people with employment-promoting services. It describes the amount of employment-promoting services we have in this country. And considering that many unemployed people have life - control problems, substance abuse problems, or various health restrictions, the situation is bad. According to the doctoral examination, 27 per cent of all long-term unemployed in the municipality were incapacitated last year. In addition, the need for treatment and rehabilitation was identified by 20%. We should remember that there are so many kinds of people out of work. In addition, this operation will hit the very group whose situation has already been weakened in other respects. The cost of sick people has increased with regard to health care fees, medical costs and travel expenses. Many have already had to rely on income support, and with this law more and more people have to do so. At the beginning of this year alone, more than EUR 45 million have been paid in income support for health care expenditure. Unemployment is already quite difficult: for example, when you register for unemployment, you have to understand that you are applying for full-time work. Few people notice that — and this new model, the active model, will be even more difficult. If this law is implemented at the beginning of the year, as is intended, the examination of the amount of benefit every 65 days will slow down the payment of unemployment benefit and cause problems for many even if they are entitled to the benefit. As has already been said several times, this puts jobseekers in a very unequal position, depending on their place of residence and occupation. It is worth remembering that activity is much more than work, enterprise or TE services. According to this proposal, family and family carers will not be required to be active. But how, for example, do volunteers or volunteers who are very active but who simply do not get paid for the work they do? This will increase the administration in many respects. The Government's proposal also estimates that income support expenditure will increase by 10 million and housing support expenditure by 4 million. As I told you, Kela has estimated that it will have to hire up to 260 new employees, as benefits are expected to increase by up to 770,000. The effects of this increasing bureaucracy or the red tape traps have not been taken into account in the calculations. The government estimates that from 5,000 to up to 12,000 new jobs would be created in this way. In addition, the bill is also problematic from the point of view of regional reform. This does not correspond to those principles, but restricts the independence of the province and joint municipal authorities and the right to organise growth services. This is therefore problematic for a number of reasons. And a few more points that have to be mentioned: As I said, studying this information every 65 days is a real problem. What information is used to study them, who does? What if the employer doesn't pay the salary even if he should? Or if there is no income from business, what happens to such persons? When training or training has to be carried out within two months after the notice period has expired, so that legislation does not conflict with this, this participation should be taken into account in the demonstration of activity. Here is another major problem of principle: rehabilitative work is one of the above-mentioned employment-promoting services, although it is a social service. Rehabilitating work activities are social services; they are not employment-promoting services. But if the rehabilitative work activity is calculated, then of course, at least the activities supporting the employment of disabled people should also be placed in the same position. As I said in my own speech, this will congest the disability pension scheme, because there will be many more applicants. The only way to be freed from the quarantine and these restrictions
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u57	Mr President! When this law came and this was called an active model, it is impossible to think of Orwell’s old books and the new language in which words try to change people’s image. I think this is more a passive model than an active model. This gives the government the right to be passive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u60	Mr President! This is where I am speaking and I am not going to repeat the good speeches that have come from this very edge of the Chamber. I would like to draw attention to the difference between such positive incentives, such as the protective part of unemployment protection, compared with such sanctions, squatting and punishing. I've been in this room some time before, when we've been talking about short-times or zero deals, I've been reminiscing about the famous singer, Veikko Lav, from the harbor where the Taavi in Takarivi went in line this morning, hoping to get a demolition job, it's today, the port boss would choose to unload the ship for that day. This case can now be compared to the fact that the unemployed are out there and they are looking for work, go to the "port" and the one who succeeds in getting that job is encouraged with this protective part, it is a positive thing, but for those in the back row who, despite their own efforts, will not get that job, the stigma of punishment will be put on the forehead. He returns disappointed, did not become a job, but apart from not being a job, he was punished for doing everything he could, at five o’clock in the morning it took two hours before the division of labour to line up. That cannot be right, so I am referring to what has been said about this humanity and just about these fundamentals, the way we should treat all people, including the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u61	Mr President! So, in itself, all the important things have been said about this law, that is to say, coming forward here is quite pointless in that sense, but I want to come out of principle and say to the parliamentary minutes what I think about this all in all. I would also like to say that on Friday afternoon it is almost 5 p.m. and there are 12 Members of Parliament here. We are all opposition parties, and there is no one here from the government to listen to this debate. In my view, this is quite shocking in that, as Mr Filatov of the Committee on Labour said, this is unacceptable legislation. So this is perhaps, well, let us say now, from the point of view of social legislation, perhaps the most shocking law I have seen in the 11 years I have been a Member of Parliament. I have never seen such a bill that cuts social benefits at the level of basic security on the grounds that the person is unemployed but has not managed to find employment. Indeed, we have legislation that feels that unemployment benefit is a benefit intended to keep a person capable and alive in such a situation where, for one reason or another, there is no such wage income, and now we are going to cut this social benefit. When it is truly known that unemployment benefit in Finland is now just 73 per cent of the minimum budget, it is driving people into income support, which means that they are properly pushed by the government into the income support that poverty researchers call this poverty trap because it is terribly difficult to get out of it by its own means because the income support is intended for last resort protection. It does not have the opportunity to make some money a month in the same way as it is in unemployment benefit and housing support. This is, therefore, merely a weakening of the position of poor people, a very conscious weakening. I say that conscious weakening because the government is certainly not at the same time increasing funds for the services of the unemployed, which could in some way ensure that people can actually demonstrate that they are active, that is, that they deserve that unemployment benefit. If you now read the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, for example, these existing funds for the services of the unemployed will not be sufficient for the existing unemployed. They will be sufficient for between 8000 and 10000 people, but not for the number of unemployed people we now have. I also find it particularly incriminating, then, that it has been customary in Parliament in general, that if the Constitutional Committee proposes some changes to the law, then those statements of the Constitutional Committee have been carefully read, but in this case the government parties did not agree to this. For example, the very fact that you do not add these funds to the services, i.e. you do not guarantee that you can access these services with your own activity, means in practice that the government creates a cutter like this, which hits the unemployed person who happens to live in a region where there is no short-term work available, and the person himself can't do anything about it, i.e. with his own activity can't in practice prove that he has earned the unemployment benefit. This is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would have liked to have changed because it puts people who live across Finland in an unequal position, that is to say, for reasons that are beyond human control, it is not enough to be able to prove themselves worthy of unemployment benefit, which is a very hard policy. Finally, we all know that, if we look at the statistics on disability, we have long been making progress in Finland in recent years in such a way that the causes of people of middle age and older are on disability pension, and the statistics on disability pension in general have gone downhill, which is good, but then, in the case of young people, the number of people applying for disability pension, especially for mental health and depression, has been increasing for a long time. This is something that the government should be very concerned about and do everything it can to ensure that this is not such a trend that continues. Well, now the government is creating a law in which the only way to avoid becoming the poorest in this society is to apply for disability pension there. I wouldn't have imagined that this is the kind of law that can be brought here. — Yes, perhaps John Vartiainen, who now arrived from the government party, can explain how this will now help us to achieve these employment objectives and how to solve the sustainability problem with such legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u64	Mr Vartiainen, it should be clarified, just in case, that the reply may be requested, but not in the middle of the actual speech by the other person, but after the speech. So if now there are still cravings to ask for an answer, then there is such a short window of time there. — — — — Mr Vartiainen, you now have a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry. I was being rude in there. — I was prevented from coming to this earlier. All I heard was the end of the Alanko-Kahiluoto speech, and he seemed to say that the only way to avoid this sanction is to apply for an invalidity pension. But, of course, that cannot be true, but the real way to avoid it is, of course, to go to work. And it is becoming more and more successful in this current economy, which is growing. It also manages to go through the recession if you are a little bit ready to lower the threshold of what kind of job you are prepared to take. This is what these activation systems, which now come to Finland 20 years later than other Nordic countries, aim at. It has been found in all the Nordic countries that they increase the likelihood of people seeking a job for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u66	In answer to Juhana Vartiainen, the only way to avoid this cutter is to apply for disability pension when there is not enough funding for these services and there is no short-term work, which is therefore not available all over Finland. And if a person is not capable or, for one reason or another, unable to act as an entrepreneur, then the only way left is to apply for a family carer or disability pension. Yes, I am obliged to ask Mr Vartiainen, as the only representative of the government parties is here: has the government not carried out any impact assessments at this point either? It is now quite clear that if there is indeed such a situation that there are no services, there is no work, then of course man works in that way — that is, the poor person does not want that unemployment benefit to be cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u67	There are now requests for answers: representatives of Mr Filatov, Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Andersson, Mr Kari, Mr Viitanen, Mr Uotila and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen — and if there is still someone else — Mr Kontula. I'm gonna admit this to someone's trip now. If Mr Vartiainen, at any time after these speeches, wishes to intervene with his own response, I will allow him to do so, and if not, then Mr Vartiainen will have the floor, two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u68	Mr President! We have a big difference in thinking with Mr Vartiainen in that he apparently thinks that when a person is just looking for a job and is willing to lower the threshold of quality requirements for work, work is available. It may be that such an illusion arises in the capital region, but when you look at people who live in, say, Eastern Finland — no longer need to go from Helsinki to Hämeenlinna — there are a large number of people who are actively looking for the jobs, but they may not have the capacity required for these gigs. In addition, we have a large number of people, such as a large proportion of the long-term unemployed, and there are still long-term sick and disabled people who are around 40,000. They also have a well-defined labour market, which they are able to do at all, and that kind of job work in this country is not available. The problem with this law is that its impact on employment has only been assessed for the recipients of earnings-related daily allowance, at least according to this legal text, but it has not carried out an impact assessment of what this means for the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u69	Mr President! I think that Mr Zyskowicz is defending the government's bill of solidarity with the government and then Mr Vartiainen seems to be defending this bill purely from an idea. Indeed, when Mr Vartiais has been liked and he himself may have been a little proponent of the Nordic model, or at least as an expert on it — perhaps the right word is an ‘expert’ — I will be surprised to learn that what is the Nordic country that builds its unemployment security so that when you do not get a job, you will receive lower unemployment security. It does not fit into any of the cores of the Nordic thinking I know. On the contrary, this is where those who do not find work despite their own efforts and do not receive services, because these service funds have been cut — they are among the top targets in the government's savings list, which was the easiest to agree on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u70	Mr President! As the previous speaker said, in other Nordic countries, active labour market policies generally refer to systems that have secured a sufficient number of staff in labour management in order to secure personal advice and guidance for unemployed jobseekers. It usually refers to schemes that have sufficient resources for training to enable unemployed job seekers to retrain themselves or schemes that have resources such as pay subsidies, so that targeted employment measures are also available to unemployed job seekers. However, I do not understand that there is an active model anywhere that actually denies unemployment benefit on the basis of unemployment. That is what this government model in practice means, and it does not include any positive incentives or carrots or any additional funds for these services or training which could create some positive incentives for unemployed job seekers. This is just the way it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u71	Mr President! Indeed, as I said earlier, I myself come from a region where unemployment has been spinning at 17-18% for years, from a region that has suffered decades of structural change and structural unemployment. There are no hocus-pocus mechanisms to get people to work, especially through such punitive measures, unemployment benefit cuts. I am disturbed — in some way I also call myself an expert on unemployment, because I have employed long-term unemployed and disabled people, people of different ages, young people, old people — here by bypassing this kind of expertise. The point of view of experts has no value, the expertise is replaced by ideology. If some thousands or hundreds of people are brought to work with this whip, thousands and thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, people who are unable to find jobs in their own territory, or even in their own neighbourhood, or any labour policy measures or other measures that are counted on this active issue will be punished at the same time. It is truly sad to see that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u72	Mr President! I found this very crystallizing, this ideological aspect of what Mr Kari said earlier. This is the ideology of squatting. That's what this is, at its worst, at its cruelest. It is as if we always want to believe that the unemployed are unemployed because of their own fault, and a hard stick is being offered. President! As has been said here before, this is now a completely new model, an invention that I, as a layman, cannot even understand anyone's invention. How can someone come up with the idea that unemployment benefit will be taken away if they do not get a job — in other words, unemployment benefit will be taken away if they do not get a job? Could the representative please: Perhaps the sentry really does explain the wisdom of this pattern in your view? I would like to remind you that this is a hard-core ideological policy. Before this, pensions were cut in this Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u73	Mr President! As has been said, this is the main problem — and it is also stated in the government’s proposal — that the unemployed may not, by their own activity, be able to contribute to the maintenance of the level of benefits. Therefore, while doing its best, seeking active measures, seeking services, seeking jobs, but failing to do so, it will still be punished, and this is, as the Constitutional Committee also states, totally different from the proposals that have been made in the past to increase activity or to increase incentives. They have been based on the fact that the unemployed must be able to influence it in their own situation and employment or access to services, and only when they have not been affected, when opportunities exist, may there have been restrictions. But this is a direct punishment for the fact that even
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u74	Mr President! I am concerned about the indifference of the representatives of the government parties to the concerns expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to whether the unemployed have a genuine chance to meet this legal requirement of activity if work and services are not available. In my opinion, the government really does not know anything about the situation of the long-term unemployed in the province when it responds to the criticism of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the long-term unemployed, as a rule, have a wide range of opportunities to demonstrate their activity. It's not like that. Furthermore, like Mrs Kari, I cannot help but wonder how the government can completely close its ears and eyes to the statements and warnings of almost all experts as to what this model means — i.e. completely wrong solutions to the real problem, which therefore weakens them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u75	Mr President! I sat in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities listening, among other things, to Mr Vartiainen's request for academic experts who were very sceptical about the impact of this bill on employment. Even those who admitted that it might, in some circumstances, have a small impact on employment pointed out that this should be weighed against the negative effects that this proposal is likely to have, for example, on the legitimacy of the system in general, on the increase in passive income support and the further accumulation of social security bureaucracy, all of which also affect employment. Society is a complex entity, it should be viewed with several indicators and weighed from several different perspectives. The big problem with this government is that it only leans on one meter and that's why it's going badly into the woods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u76	Yes, Mr President-in-Office, I understand that there is a pure austerity law, if you think that the Ministry of Finance has in previous parliamentary term, when I have been a Member of Parliament, opposed the long-term unemployed to such employment-rewarding bonus laws, with the argument that the Ministry of Finance does not believe that the long-term unemployed are still employed, and now, with the support of this Ministry of Finance, the government apparently brings in this kind of law, which cuts long-term unemployed people's unemployment security for this reason if they do not. It is written here between the lines that it is intended to save at the expense of the most vulnerable in society, who are therefore unable to cope with this basic unemployment allowance. It's under the minimum budget. But I have to ask Mr. Vartia, when you're in the public eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u77	Now two minutes to reply, Mr Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u78	Thank you, Mr President. At first perhaps it is worth correcting here there was this kind of misunderstanding which seemed to be representatives of Andersson and Viitanen, who said that if you did not get a job, then you will be denied unemployment benefit. It is not denied, but cut off a small part of it, corresponding to two days of quarantine. Read that law and you won't have to worry about it so much. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto spoke earlier about these previous bonus laws. This is a kind of bonus law. All bonus laws already create some greater distinction between the economic situation of an employed or non-employed person. That's how it works, isn't it? This is all of them. In the Nordic countries, a very common approach, which is only now on the way to Finland with a delay. In Denmark, too, there is a policy that if a person does not seize the opportunities available, even the total refusal of all income transfers can be threatened. This is not nearly a question of that. However, the strong picture of the study is that such systems affect the behaviour of the unemployed and hence the unemployment rate, i.e. the duration of periods of unemployment. During this debate, as in the committee, I did not see that the left had any value whatsoever for reducing unemployment and this will also reduce the flow to long-term unemployment. It is true that the government's actions may be over-emphasizing in the direction of pushing. The Government Programme was balanced, but unfortunately the organisations prevented
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u80	Let us move on to the list of speakers at this stage. This is because a representative of one opposition group has been waiting almost two hours for his actual speech. It is reasonable that he should be able to speak at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u81	Mr President! During this first half of the parliamentary term, income tax reductions were made and have contributed to the reduction in unemployment. The tax rebates were the government's receipt to the employee party, which, thanks to the Competitiveness Pact, had a significant impact on its working conditions, and these tax reductions have therefore had a significant positive effect. Tax reductions and incentives have made it easier to find employment, especially in those sectors where income would otherwise be scarce and, for example, it would be difficult to move to the capital region. For example, in the alternative budget for Finns, the proposed probationary period of work would help and encourage people to look for work elsewhere than in their own region. Further training of the Finnish unemployed would also facilitate their employment — if not immediately, at least in the longer term. Unfortunately, the active model proposed by the government before us is a flagrant and unreasonable attempt to reduce unemployment by using a hard stick. At least in no case can we talk about any kind of encouragement, as Mr Zyskowicz did in the past. If the job seeker has not spent enough days at work or in the corresponding activation during the three-month reference period, his unemployment benefit will be reduced by almost 5% according to the draft law. The reduction in the compensation would not even be affected by the active application of the unemployed, only by the fact that they have obtained these jobs on their own initiative. It is therefore not enough just to try, it must also be successful. In this presentation you can see the ice-cold foundation in the United States. Mr President! Much of the commentators disagreed with the government's proposal as to how the active participation of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit should be supported in the future. While some of the unemployed can certainly find short-term work and avoid the sanctions proposed by the government, the statements made a strong point that there are a very large number of people in receipt of unemployment benefits whose job opportunities are not limited to job-seeking. For these people, long-term unemployment, health-related issues and possible exclusion from the labour market are more likely to affect their ability to work and employment opportunities. However, even these people are affected by the government’s rampage. The opportunities for unemployed people, for example, in sparsely populated areas, will inevitably be considered. As a result of the Government's proposal, a strong increase in income support expenditure is also expected. Mr President! The committee hearings have highlighted the constitutional guarantee of every person's right to basic income protection on the basis of unemployment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consistently stressed that the refusal of unemployment benefit must be justified in relation to what measures have been available to promote employment and what can be attributed to the unemployed person. On the other hand, this government proposal, according to the arguments put forward by the proposal, contains a formulaic calculation rule without any individual consideration. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that, since, despite their efforts, the unemployed do not necessarily have the capacity to meet the legal requirement of activity, the proposal cannot be considered as a constitutional problem. This position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very strong, and unfortunately it has been ignored by the government parties. The only reason for this is to guess and wonder. Mr President! In addition to this proposal, an active job search model prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy would force an unemployed person to seek a job once a week, on average, at the risk of a very long, no less than two months of toughness. All of this regardless of whether or not there are suitable job vacancies available in the person’s home region. For small businesses in particular, this excessive influx of applications may become a burden and the application procedure will result in additional bureaucracy. The introduction of this type of heavy and demanding set of obligations is totally unreasonable when hundreds of thousands of people are still unemployed. The Finns of Finland will come to the second reading of the bill to reject this proposal. Mr President! Perhaps this government proposal also tells us something about the fact that there have been very few representatives of the government parties in this Chamber today to defend this proposal. Congressman Zyskowicz was here for a while. He brought up his own position and left. Fortunately, Mr Vartiainen has now come to defend this government proposal. I would like to thank him for his courage and at the same time ask him what his views are on the impact of this bill on the 85% of the Finnish unemployed who, according to Mr Vartiainen, can no longer be employed. At least that's what you've said in public before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u82	Mr President! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the principle of this draft law, namely the preparatory process. In general, this type of important legislation has been prepared on a tripartite basis for wage-based social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u92	Madam President! I thought I would have used my seat for two minutes, but Mr Ihalainen, in his own speech, opened a speechary coffin, such wise words. I would have liked to have had listeners on the other side, but there is Mr Vartiainen, who writes passionately — I hope to write these wise words that Mr Ihalainen has just said. It is of the utmost importance for us to have paths at the heart of the government and not to have a whip. Our unemployment does not leave this country because we create systems that punish, but we really need the government to do so, and the view of the whole Parliament should be such that we have the opportunity to help the path that people who are not working can get into work. We have to reorganize it, and this is not going to go quite well for the SDP, so I have to say that the Ringe model is one good example of that. Somehow we need to be able to enable people with less skills to move to another profession, to create a path there. Today, Petteri Orpo, as Minister of Finance, insisted in the press that we should be able to pay lower wages. It may be that I would be able to accept it if unemployment benefit could be applied to the extent that skills are allowed for future work, so that the person is paid a wage in accordance with a collective agreement, so that the person can move to another place, for example, to work at a lower level than he has been laid off from. If there are structural, regional impossibilitys, when the work stops, the person must be tempted to move to another place for 500 days, 300 days, so that he can take that earnings-related daily allowance with him so that he can move there, even to a lower-paid job. We should have a completely different system so that we can make the transition possible — it certainly involves tax matters relating to the sale of dwellings and so on. This whole system must be dismantled in such a way that it becomes attractive to move to another place, if there are positive structural problems. Southwest Finland I'm sure New Town is a good example, but we 100 people will come and crush that sector. But in any case, you have to be attractive and not spank. The carrot bites better than the whip. It has been seen in this society, and that is why this government proposal does not support what should be precisely those unemployed people who do not have employment opportunities in their own territory. This government proposal is, in my opinion, unconstitutional: This puts people in a position of inequality on the basis of their place of residence. It makes no sense for people to be valued on the basis of their place of residence. It can even be a regional entity where there is no opportunity to work. We should be more in the process of creating opportunities to retrain ourselves and move on to jobs. But, Madam President, before I get excited, I will end my speech and once again say that Mr Ihalainen has taken a very valuable and good speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u94	Mr President! American listed companies were advised a long time ago to do so that if there is something bad that people do not want publicity for, it has to be invested in Friday afternoon, the end of the week, in the rush hour when people go away for the weekend and even the deliveries are empty. It seems that the government has heard of this information practice by American listed companies. So we are sitting here on Friday afternoon to discuss one of the most important legislative proposals that the government has made, in a very short-numbered gym, and I think it is even the case that the gallery is empty as far as journalists are concerned, for reasons that are understandable to you, and perhaps someone has thought that this is a good thing to do. But this cannot go quietly, because this will affect not the lives of hundreds, not of thousands, but of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people, and it is wrong that such bad legislation should only be brought into existence once the legislative proposals have been adopted and are a practical reality and people's unemployment security will be cut. What is striking for this debate is that the minister who made the proposal, Mr Mattila, is not there to defend his own proposal. It is also symbolic that of the majority of the report adopted by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, no member is there to defend his line by telling this Chamber and the public why this is being done. They want to do this as quickly and lightly as possible, in passing, there will be no headlines and no one will notice that this is what has been done. It is also striking that the Minister for Labour, to whom these services and the treatment of workers should belong, is not here either. The blue future is now a harsh gray past. These procedures are not good and I do not hope that they will prevail in Parliament. The experts in committee and also in public have warned of this thinking and reported the consequences of this, and the vast majority of experts consider this to be unfair to the people. Well, it doesn't seem to stop the government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been given a special role to ensure that legislation is in accordance with the Constitution, has also warned of the consequences of this proposal. This, too, does not seem to stop the majority of the committee, not even the majority of Parliament. For some strange reason, it has become necessary to pass such legislation restricting the rights of workers, the unemployed. Mr Vartiainen says that this proposal does not or does not deny unemployment benefit. After all, for two days, unemployment benefit will be cut from those who have not been able to get a job — as is evident from this government bill and also from the report of the committee — despite the fact that they have done everything they can to get work or find a way to train. Mr Vartiainen, this is the same logic as if you were denied a two-day salary because Mr Lohela did not give you the floor despite your efforts — it would be an obligation that, in order to be able to receive a representative's fee every day, the representative should go to the Grand Chamber or otherwise be cut. Representative Even the watchman would rise up on God knows how many occasions and ask for the floor, but the President would look the other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u101	Madam Speaker! It would be easy to support that proposal just now, because that is the way it is. In this debate, which has been long and good, there have been many reasons why this proposal is something that should never be taken forward. In this context, I would also like to say this: I received a citizen's feedback on it just this week, and a rather concerned person said that do something about whether you can do something. That is when I said that of course we will try, but I doubt that we will, because, as I said then, the government clearly has an ideological background here. Since the government is ideologically functioning, we cannot even make a sensible change here in Parliament, although we will do our best to ensure that the government does so. When I spoke to this person, who was very concerned, I could not yet, Mr President, guess that today we are still going to have to deal with this issue in a Chamber that shines its emptiness with regard to the government parties. I appreciate the fact that here are representatives Ben Zyskowicz and Johna The guard has been here for a while to defend this performance. It is in accordance with their ideology. But it may be that the rest of the government is out, either because of having a bad conscience, or simply wants to have a representative, as described above by Heinäluoma, as if quietly skulking in his socks, bringing this law here for approval, so that no one can hear it now. This is very ironic, Mr President, because the balance of the government parties today is that we should vote with a great deal of breath first, that this government should not be divided, that confidence should be given and that there should be a mid-term vote. Then there will be a vote to cut pensions. And now, quietly creeping and quietly bringing in this law of squatting for the unemployed. — Mr President, I shall, exceptionally, continue a little, I do not have much longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u104	Mr President! Representative Vartiainen compared Finland to other Nordic countries. It is now necessary to remind the representative that Denmark and other Nordic countries have much better resources to provide the services they need for the unemployed, and that is why we cannot be compared to Denmark or other Nordic countries. In Finland, the possibility of employment services in TE Offices and municipalities to serve customers is very limited, as TE Offices have so few staff at the moment. Services have increasingly moved to the Internet despite the fact that, for example, 20% of the long-term unemployed are unable to use electronic services. So more and more people fall unwittingly outside the service. People who feel they need a face-to-face meeting with an expert at the TE Office tell me that they can't get to that meeting. No matter how much they call and try to arrange a meeting, no one has time for them. Nevertheless, the government here is acclaiming these interviews every three months. Which means even those people who would like this interview won't get it. If we want to promote the employment of the long-term unemployed, then services, education, rehabilitation must be developed and increased. There is a need for more human resources for this, but unfortunately the government has also acted badly in this area, which means that the staff has also been spared. All in all, this bill is absurd, it is inhuman and it tells us a lot about the values of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u105	Mr President! When this bill came before Parliament, I took the floor to criticise it as a rather unsuccessful attempt at the time, but since then I have had the opportunity to listen to a number of experts in the committee, and I am sorry to say that I had no idea how many different problems this proposal poses. The bill cuts the primary income of many, which leads to about half of these people being covered by income support. We all already know about our basic security system to the extent that the transition to income support contributes significantly to reducing the chances of going back to work. The bill encourages people who might already have earned a pension because of illness or poor working capacity, but have so far preferred to remain in the books of the unemployed because they still hope at some point in their lives to get back to work. They are people who have a problem, which means that it is not possible for them to find employment in those low-paid fragmentation jobs in the service sector where there are four hours, maybe two days or a week at a workplace, and then someone else goes through the rental company because of its limitations on their ability to work, their employment would require some kind of adjustment from the workplace and the employer. However, they have wanted to remain there with the unemployed, hoping that one day they may find an employer who is ready for the small adjustment measures that they might make full-time, decent, productive workers in this society. This model now encourages us to reconsider the matter, to ask ourselves whether it would be better to be there on sickness pension after all, because this is a very clear distinction between those who are able to earn a decent job with shrapnel work and those who will receive full unemployment benefit and those who will then be affected by this cut. Thirdly, the draft law — once again — reduces confidence in the system. In my opinion, there has not been enough talk in this Chamber about the alarming research results that confidence in the political system, but also in the state and the public administration as a whole, among people on low incomes, and especially among people who have experienced unemployment, is being weakened all the time — that is to say, getting weaker, not weak, but getting weaker. And yes, in my view, one of the fundamental reasons why this is happening is that they encounter our system of authorities over and over again in a situation where it is hit quite hard in the face without feeling deserved. They find themselves in impossible situations, treated unfairly, treated disrespectfully. They do not understand systems that have been made so complicated that even professionals do not understand them anymore. We had an expert in committee who was familiar with the subject and said that he certainly does not control this whole as a lawyer — how, for God's sakes, is it the unemployed who do not have many years of training there? This brings us to the fourth problem of this proposal: this makes the bureaucracy trap even worse, which is already the biggest obstacle to employment and the incentive trap we have in our system. The problem is that since this bureaucracy trap does not target those people who decide what is being investigated in this country, we do not have proper research data on the impact of this bureaucracy trap, and that is why the Ministry of Finance, when it makes the employment calculations, does not take it into account in any way. But anyone who knows even one unemployed person with basic daily allowance who has ever even considered employment knows very well that it is an essential factor in the behaviour of people. If you think that we have people in society at all who, when unemployed, wonder whether or not I will accept this piece of work, then the key question is not whether it is worthwhile to take the job or not. Yes, it is profitable: it has such an incentive, which is called a salary. But when it's connected to this red tape trap... This bill does not provide a new incentive for this. This leads to a situation in which such a person, who is likely to be low in society and among the unemployed at all, will have to consider whether to choose a few tens of cuts in unemployment security or to risk the entire social security system by trying to activate. I'll give you one example that I think is very specific. I've been working on the situation of an 18-year-old youth. He went, unhappy, in spite of his stupidity and warnings last July to employ a cleaning company for three days. Even in October, he had not been able to get out of this company his wages and bankrolls, and because of that, because the company did not handle these documents properly, his entire social security was a mess for the past four months. Well, then we were able to put pressure on him together so that he finally got his bankrolls there and got his paycheck. At that point it became clear that the company invoiced Ukko.fi and our unemployment benefit system did not decide whether or not Ukko.fi invoiced entrepreneurs or employees. It took us another month to get excited about whether or not unemployment benefit will come and how this person will be treated. Now she has finally received her unemployment benefit, after five months of confusion — and what has the 18-year-old learned during this period? At least don't go to work now, because that means you have several weeks of empty fridge in front of you. This is the problem that we should solve in the unemployment benefit system. This is the incentive trap. This is the one that undermines the legitimacy of our entire system, and this is a fact that thousands and thousands of unemployed people in this country regularly meet in their own lives and who takes away the basic security, gnawing down the basic safety net on which people should be able to make rational decisions and perhaps plan for the future, trying to improve their own lives. What, then, does this bill hope for, what are the benefits on the other side of the scale? The bill may hope to achieve a small employment impact, and if this does not happen, at least a small cut in unemployment security expenditure, which in part will flow into income support expenditure. There is no balance between these things: on the one hand, we have the fact that unemployment security bureaucracy is being made more arbitrary, more complex, even though it is already a terrible mess, and on the other hand, perhaps, if the calculations are correct, it can have a small employment effect. What, then, should be done instead? Well, of course, at least we wouldn't be preventing people from working, at least we wouldn't be punishing people for going to work. Would this not be a good start and quite ideologically sustainable from the point of view of all parties? If employment measures are to be continued after that, then perhaps employment, employment and employment services that actually support people's employment will not meet any strange statistical performance expectations, will not be storage places for people, but will be created for people to be able to fill the skills and skills or mismatches that they may have and which may become obstacles to employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u106	Madam President! This has been the case for several hours, as Mr Heinäluoma said, with one of the biggest things in this parliamentary term, a small group, and when I looked at social media, I noticed that the rapporteur, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, tweets that he is in a smoke sauna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u111	President! I had to make a spontaneous request for a reply now, because I think that is quite remarkable what Mr Kari says there. It is also very sad because we have long been calling for representatives of the government parties to be present, let alone for ministers to be found missing, and now we hear that the minister who is presenting the matter is in a smoke sauna and then the Minister for Labour still likes these tweets. Apart from the fact that this whole legislative project is very disrespectful to the unemployed, yes, it is a bit like Parliament and the opposition and all this debate, which is supposed to take place in this House, a very unfortunate situation. It is now a little speechless at this point that how such a thing can be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u113	Mr President! I will continue with a few points which have not been raised in this debate. Some are, but a little from a different angle. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave a very critical opinion and contained many points in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs intervened and said that they are, as it were, different from those adopted so far. Normally, if the Constitutional Committee puts a point behind the order of things, the committee will have to change it or it will come against the order of regulation in the Chamber. But even when less formal forms are used, the committee must state the reasons for what it does not take into account in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As much as I read the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there is no justification for the fact that labour market policy measures, for example, are not equal throughout the country or are not available at all because the money is scarce. The opinion shows that the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs says that money has been increased, but when there are cuts at the bottom, there is no real increase. And what does the Committee on Social Affairs and Health answer? It requires that the money be distributed in a timely manner. If there is no money, then a timely distribution of money will not help. In other words, I think there are some very strange equations here that would have been really nice to have had answers from the government parties as well. Another problem that arises when there is a debate on whether or not to access these services: Well, the unemployed do not decide whether to access the service or not, and that has been identified as one major problem here. But the second problem is that this mechanism is easily leading to labour market services being split up, broken down to the extent that they meet the conditions required by this law for people in the most difficult position on the labour market who are unable to get jobs and jobs from the open labour market, so that, in fact, the money we have to spend on active activities becomes inappropriately used and leads to less efficient spending. I believe that this is another major problem which we may not have talked so much about yet. The third relates to the fact that we are still going to have another law relating to the reform of labour market policy, the idea of which is that an unemployed person should apply for a certain amount of work and report on these job searches, and if he does not report them on a given cycle, it will result in a total loss of unemployment benefit. I find it very difficult to understand the logic that we first expect the unemployed to get a job in order to be able to find employment, and then there will be a law that requires the unemployed to apply for employment. In other words, such packages, which are unquestionably linked, should be presented to Parliament at the same time, because then they could be made sense. I was thinking about this legislation, at least I've had a lot of trouble with these articles. I received a letter from one of the thieves who is of age who has been unemployed for a long time and was delighted that she could now get into the library with a pay subsidy. But then it turns out that this lady has been distributing free distribution magazines, in which case she does not meet this criterion of the long-term unemployed, which means that she cannot enter the library because she does not receive the support that the long-term unemployed would receive. Well, after that, he asked me if this division of my magazines was enough to ensure that my unemployment benefit was not cut. I cannot answer whether it is enough, because it is a task that does not have working hours and which is not directly tied to these points. It would have been good to have received answers from ministers in this debate because they were not made clear in committee. The fourth point is that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health corrected a point in this law which I think is very relevant and, for example, related to the speech made by Minister Ihalainen. The law was written in such a way that an active condition can only be fulfilled if those services come from a public operator, but if those services come from an outside company that provides services, then they are not recorded as active activities. At the same time, the government is changing the entire labour market policy so that almost all services would come from private companies — but even in this law it does not trust private companies enough to qualify these activities as active activities within the meaning of this law. And the last question is actually that, when the only common sense that can be found in this law is that this has actually been aimed at the differentiation of unemployment benefit, then, if that has been the objective, then why is there not a straight-tracked unemployment benefit? It would have been a more transparent system and would have given rise to less guilt in the minds of the unemployed who are in the most difficult position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u114	Madam President! Mr Vartiainen said in his speech, which was sometimes used about half an hour ago, that this is a kind of bonus law. Well, we all know what a bonus means in Finnish. That means a kind of reward. But where's the reward when you cut it? This is the law of surgery. This is a law that cuts unemployment security if the unemployed are unable to find employment when they are unemployed, that is, a senseless law in itself. I shall continue to go back to this excess, which is included in the law from the point of view of the unemployed person receiving basic daily allowance. In other words, if the condition of activity is not met for such a person, his unemployment allowance, i.e. labour market support, can be reduced by EUR 32 40 cents per month. Of course, from the point of view of a well-off person, EUR 32 40 cents a month does not sound much, but it is a lot of money for a person who relies solely on labour market support. It's a huge amount. I do not think it is reasonable to spin words in such a way as to say that this is a kind of bonus law. That is certainly not the case. From this very point of view, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also felt that the government should make changes to its proposal in order to meet the conditions for fair and fair legislation. In other words, in its own opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed that every citizen, every unemployed person, should be guaranteed a genuine opportunity to fulfil the conditions of the activation claim contained in this law. That is why the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that this would mean an increase in the supply of the services and activities in question, which the government is not doing now. If we really count, as the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has calculated, what is the budget for the services of the unemployed at the moment, and how many unemployed people are and what are the requirements of the law, then the cold fact is that the money allocated to the services is not enough to provide these services to all the unemployed. So basically this is the law of surgery. Under such circumstances, the government does not even want to offer unemployed people access to services where there is no short-term employment in the locality. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that this would not necessarily be enough either, as it is not possible to guarantee full access to services on a legislative basis. That is why the committee believes that the draft law should have come to ensure that the person who does what is reasonably required of him does not become the victim of a reduction in the benefit. This would have meant that Chapter 6, Section 3a and Chapter 7, Chapter 5a§ It should have been supplemented, for example, by a provision that benefits are not reduced in cases where the worker has not been able to find employment or gain access to employment-promoting services for reasons beyond his/her own control. This is also something the government did not want to do. In the view of the Constitutional Committee, another way of further reducing the problem of the proposal would have been for the job seeker to demonstrate his activity in another way which shows that he was actively seeking employment or employment-promoting services during the period considered, but no such change has been made to the draft law. I myself am in favour of the rejection motion precisely because I believe that it is unreasonable to increase the obligations of the unemployed person to become employed or to participate in activation measures or to cut his or her unemployment security if, at the same time, the authorities do not have any obligation to provide employment services in such a way as to enable all unemployed citizens to fulfil their active claim. This is not the case because there is no increase in these appropriations. I do not understand that the same government, which is experimenting with basic income, which I think is a positive thing, has not agreed to include in this bill a legal point which would guarantee that activity would be given a broader definition, in which case the unemployed, when there are no jobs, could ensure the survival of their unemployment benefit by showing activity in other ways, such as voluntary work or some kind of organizational work that would also sustain his well-being and inclusion in society. This, in my opinion, also contributes to the unfairness of this bill. In my opinion, rather than implementing such a sanction law, which increases the cost of our income support and exacerbates the employment traps and increases the number of people seeking disability pension for no real reason, it should rather be invested in employment services, services for the long-term unemployed, your example in the wage subsidies that the government has cut, and it should implement measures and legal changes to support the employment of part-time workers, which, for example, were presented by the STM's working group during the last period in a comprehensive study which covered various measures and legislative changes to increase the employment rate of those who are able to work part-time. In these words, therefore, I shall be voting in favour of the motion for a rejection. Instead of this bill, I would have liked the government to have sought not to complicate unemployment security legislation, but to seek simplicity and clarity, a law that goes into people's legal protection and which would be easy to apply and enforce in the TE administration. This is such a law that this will also be very difficult for the authorities working in the TE administration, and yes, I also have sympathy for those who have to struggle with the interpretation of this law and then cut unemployment benefit from people who see that people have done their best, but there are no services and there are no jobs. This is not humane either for the employees of the TE administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you could now give me some credit for coming with you to debate. [Interjection] A little of this historical background: This is a little scheming, isn't it? When these activation systems were developed in other Nordic countries, especially Denmark, and researchers then examined how they affected, how to put them on a course or practice, then affect the likelihood of employment, and the researchers found that it had the strongest effect in many cases in these evaluation studies... — Are you listening to this, by the way? I got a lot of questions from here. — The strongest impact of these measures appeared to have been achieved even before they began. So, in a way, the probability of employment rose before the training or activation period began, so people were more active in seeking work because they wanted to avoid such measures. This was, of course, a bit embarrassing for both the political right and the left, because it is not nice for the right to say that this policy of ours is now based on this kind of stick or squeezing, and from the left's point of view this is breaking the myth which, by the way, lives in this Chamber that there are no jobs. Last time, a couple of minutes ago, Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto repeated this funny thing. But this is just the way it is that such measures and systems can actually reduce unemployment. This does not include any disapproval of anyone or the idea that unemployment is somehow anyone's fault, but we know how people behave. Man is a rational being. The unemployed are just as wise as everyone else, and I do not think they are any more lazy, they may have been less fortunate, and there are such behavioural effects. In other words, the impact of the fall in unemployment is being sought here. Now we have been talking about bonuses and sticks, and they were also spoken about by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto here, [OutiAlanko-Kahiluoto interlude] This has also been invoked for income support expenditure. Well, we don't know if they're going to make any difference. But let me just say that this is not a huge cut — is it not a 5% cut — and if in some cases it is compensated by some other transfer, then it is not as much a world-falling change as you describe. Such an interesting question here has come up, and you too have pointed out that if it is a question of a person with a poor ability to work, then this seems very unreasonable. But this kind of person's place is not really in the unemployment benefit system if he is no longer able to work, because the whole of our unemployment benefit, however, leaves the Nordic countries for being fully available to the labour market if unemployment benefit is obtained. In any case, during this committee debate, I asked many times whether this fall in unemployment has no value to you, the opposition, and I do not remember anyone actually ever... Anna Kontula said it right here. But I remember being told that there was more concern about how the administration was doing. This is a little measure of whether we are really in favour of reducing unemployment. Many say, and in this Chamber too, that in some way unemployment is a priority, but when you really try to reduce it, you are running low on friends. [OutiAlanko-Kahiluoto interlude] After all, none of the experts denied this reduction in unemployment. Experts appeared cautiously because in the case of this kind of system it is very difficult to assess its impact. Having been accused of ideologically speaking, this is my ideology: I am trying to reduce structural unemployment so that funding for the welfare state will continue to be possible. I am sure that if unemployment security were to be phased out, it could also be one of the future reforms, but it would be opposed here in the Chamber with the same melodramatic voice as this one now. It is a complete misunderstanding that there are no jobs or that the majority of the unemployed cannot be employed. As has been said, 300,000 unemployed people flow to the open labour market every year. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the law could be enacted in the normal order. Perhaps on this social democratic criticism: I am not sure now — refresh my memory, I do not remember — whether it was Rafael Paasio or Kalevi Sorsa, who told someone who complained about his unemployment, that you should move to the cities to work. This can also create the effect of moving more in pursuit of work, and that is a good thing. In my opinion, there is no further trace of this thinking in social democracy. The likely beneficial effect may also be on this so-called unemployment pension pipeline, i.e. how much to go to this and get here for additional days of unemployment benefit. This too is extremely difficult to assess in advance, but it has been a kind of automatic early retirement scheme so far, and we are now trying to curb its use, which is quite right. The weak position of older people in the Finnish labour market is a fact, and that is something we could try to address with legislation. Yes, I would also be prepared to think about the order of dismissal and the laws relating to it, but I am also quite certain that a more liberal individual wage formation would help to recruit older people, because then it would not be necessary to increase every wage by the same general increase in productivity growth for younger people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u116	Mr President! The model of the active model has not been tried anywhere, so we have no experience in other countries, and rational behavioural effects can only be expected if the causality of the system is so predictable that people in it are able to make rational choices. That's not the case now. Is this a show to bring down worlds? Well, it probably won't bring the world down, but it can bring down the individual unemployed's economy, and there must be a lot of research to show that falling from primary social security to income support is clearly a significant point of art and must be avoided. It is true that unemployment costs, but poverty also costs, including the loss of legitimacy, and if you do not take these costs into account, you cannot make a sensible economic policy, even if economic policy is a priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u117	Mr President! I would like to point out a few things, perhaps. When Mr Vartiainen said that we are saying that there are no jobs available, I do not think that anyone in this Chamber has said that there are no jobs available, but has said that there are no jobs for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u120	Madam President! In Mr Vartiainen's speech, I do see a few aspects that would be a longing to go back 150 years: It would all just happen that if an employer wanted to, then it would fit in with the employee who was hired. You have to be able to hire older workers with a low wage, you have to hire young people if you have poor language skills, you have to be able to hire immigrants, you have to be able to hire disabled people with a salary that matches your own ability to work and productivity. No reconciliation systems, no tripartite preparation, no labour law to hinder this supposedly genuine functioning of the labour market, which would only leave the employer purely, without any regulation, to enter into agreements and decide who to take. It's a long way from my mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u121	Mr President! I'll make up for what's in the minute. First of all, I think it is pointless to put anything in the names of respected Kalevi Sorsa or Rafael Paasio. There will always be people in the countryside, and we will need people in the countryside. There has never been a situation in Finland where jobs are offered alone in cities. Then when Congressman Vartiainen said that I have spoken nonsense: I am a little confused now, because I thought I was just quoting Mr Orpo. I only quoted the President-in-Office, Mr Orpo, who said that lower wages should be allowed and paid to immigrants and other special groups. Representative Vartiainen carefully avoided saying ‘lower wages’, he talked about different activities. However, the starting point for pay must be that every person is paid according to the assessment that he will be treated in a fair way, and that is certainly not what Mr Vartiainen has said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u122	Mr President! I'm trying to get to grips with these weirdest interpretations. After all, Kari, no one is giving up labour law or collective agreements, but now, as we know, we have the world's toughest wage system, which, at least until now, forces us to raise wages with those same average general increases for almost all, it has led, for many older people, to a faster increase in labour costs than the value added produced by it for the employer, and then to a strong pressure on dismissal. And then, Eero, you are now... You have so many times deliberately spread this same misunderstanding. There is no group discrimination that anyone in Europe would want, and that would not even be possible. But instead, there could be some more freedom in the case of people who have lower productivity, who otherwise become unemployed — they must now be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u123	It's a long day, but let's stick to what you call and last names in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u124	Mr President! I am dealing with just one misunderstanding and the wrong image of Mr Vartiainen's speech, which concerns the employment of the elderly in Sweden. In Sweden, therefore, older people do not have a better employment rate, a higher proportion of older people working than in Finland, to pay them a lower salary, not at all, but because Sweden has long since made a system of dismissals that protects those who have long been in the workplace — that is to say, they are the last to be laid off who have first entered the house. It has therefore been a major obstacle to the flag that has been made in Finland: when the procedures begin, the first thing to be put out is the 50-year-old and over. And this has led to the employer having an interest in taking care of these older workers too, giving them tasks in which they can make their own contribution, and also to continuing to train them so that they can cope with this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u125	Let's go to this list of speakers, it's that short.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u126	Madam President! It must be noted, Mr Heinäluoma, that this is precisely the point of how these systems are a little as problematic as the fact that we have a social safety net so that employers use the'soft' dismissal system used in the labour market. In this case, the fact that older persons who are covered by the unemployment benefit so that they can then retire after additional days has, in a way, been able to make it possible for them to be laid off. But for Mr Vartiainen, who put his backpack on and left the gym, I would have liked to say that in reality the person who has turned 50 is perhaps the most productive for the employer. His professional skills, his sick absences, according to statistics... And now it would have been nice to say to Mr Vartiainen that it has been studied that the proportion of sick leave in an older worker is lower than that of young people. And in that sense, Mr Vartiainen's views on it are misleading and, so to speak, quite nonsense. In this debate, I would like us to have a minister and representatives of the government party here. This is now a bit of a club of mutual praises, and I hope that this debate in some form can continue so that it does not end this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u127	Mr President! This law will, of course, seriously test the citizens' sense of justice. So the fact that a person who does not get a job despite his own efforts is being cut because he has not received a job is the same thing as a person who does not get well is being paid a reduced sickness allowance when he has not recovered when he cannot be affected by it himself. I'm surprised this kind of thing could have gone through any government. In general, it is always the case that there are some people in every government who understand how to look at it from the perspective of people. Once, 500 years ago, Olaus Petri gave instructions to a judge saying that what is not right and fair cannot be a law. This 500-year-old history of Olaus Petri is suitable for handling this law in the best or most unpleasant way. Such a law is not a right, does not do justice and does not represent a reasonable cause. It comes from some strange ideological tachograph, where the premise is that a stick must guide society — not good. All this thinking that workers should have no minimum protection is, in my view, an amazing change that has taken place during this government. The starting point is that there should be a minimum level of protection for workers who are the weaker part of working life. We have that minimum protection through collective agreements or collective agreements. Then, of course, it can also be done through legislation. But yes, in all civilized countries, one route is in use. There is no such world as Mr Vartiainen is concerned that the employees have no protection to appeal to, but every banker then negotiates with Group CEO Björn Wahlroos for his own remuneration and tries to get what is available there. No, there is some protection, and it concerns both pay, working hours, health and safety at work and other forms of treatment. It is particularly important that we do not begin to define wages according to, for example, nationality, origin or age. After all, age is not the basis for pay; it is the actual work to be done. Then we will have the opportunity to support those who are disadvantaged in working life, such as disabled people, through support schemes. Then pay the wage subsidy, which can take into account this, that if this person is incapacitated, then, of course, his work is not the same as that of a fully capable person. This is what Sweden has done, by the way. I am surprised that Mr Vartiainen, who has now left, refuses to say anything to this Chamber. Sweden has a very substantial wage subsidy scheme which allows this high level of employment in different groups. I have already explained that this high employment rate for older people has been the result of decades of regulations which prevent older people from being first sent to the unemployment card. It has created a strong basis for ensuring that everyone’s skills are used in the workplace. It should be noted, however, that in the Swedish model it is possible to make changes to this too, i.e. in such a cooperation procedure it may be agreed that this arrangement will be derogated from and that it can be assessed at the workplace whether this dismissal order will be respected. This is a very hard market for this society. It has come undetected during this government. There have always been individual companies, but unfortunately, during the time of the Sipilä Government, these individual companies have now been made one coherent policy that will be brought here at a time. It will take some time before you realize that this is about the same coin and its different sides. This market line is being taken here on the social and health services side of the Constitution, not only in the face of borders but against borders, and then only the statements of the Constitutional Committee have prevented the government from making this huge model of limited liability company for the whole of health care, which was still under discussion last year and in the spring of this year. It is imported to employment services. Now that we have one third or a quarter of the resources available to help the unemployed in other Nordic countries or, for example, in Sweden, this is not enough; instead we want to end this social employment service altogether and transfer it to the market as a public limited liability company — first these are transferred to the provinces and then to the provinces, it is said that they are not allowed to provide these services themselves but must buy them from the market. It's hard to see this coming to help the unemployed. When Mr Vartiainen spoke here about the solution to unemployment, I wonder where the studies tell me that cuts in unemployment security will lead to new jobs. I've never seen anything like it. When I have not seen them, I suspect that they will not be there, because it has been mentioned so long now that you would think that in this Chamber those who believe in this sticking of the unemployed and cuts in unemployment security as a medicine for employment would have brought them up. An advanced society such as Finland can only survive with a high level of knowledge for all people. That is why we need to invest in education, starting from primary school and continuing, of course, all the way to universities, but it also applies to those in work and the unemployed. The whole idea of the Nordic model is that the unemployed are not left alone and unemployment is not blamed on an individual, but that we start by providing assistance and support for those who can find work through it, but above all by ensuring that the unemployed are able to update their own skills or then train themselves in an entirely new sector if their own work has gone out of hand in technological development. Now this responsibility, this responsibility for education and this responsibility for support, is completely denied by this government bill. The benefit of this debate so far has been that perhaps this has begun to tell us whose pen these proposals were made of, and perhaps who is out of here will tell us who still has some sense of justice. I do not know whether it is now a sign of a sense of justice that there will be no defence of the motion, but perhaps in its good will, you can imagine that absenteeism is a sign that you do not want to defend this bill. This seems to be one of the examples of the series that the pacestick in this board has moved to the assembly, and the performances of this series will not remain here, as we have seen today from the Finnish Photo Magazine, Minister, from the chairman of the convention Orpo. Wage cuts are now being offered as the next tool for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u130	There's a list of speakers so short, we don't have to go to the debate right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u131	Mr President! I understand that the opposition has been kicking ass on this issue, but I do not understand that the minister is enjoying them on the smoke sauna rafts at the same time that the minister's place would have been here. When there is no representative of the government parties other than Madam President, not even MPs from the government parties, I ask whether the second reading will allow the opposition to ask questions to the ministers. I ask this seriously because there is a third option in this respect, but with the third option, our budget reading will go a little longer in the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u132	Madam President! It seems to me that the question raised by Mr Kari is very legitimate, because it was the same thing in my mind when I heard all of this, that the minister is enjoying the smoke sauna there and that we are having a very serious debate here. I am sure we will soon hear the answer to this question put by Mrs Kari. As far as I am concerned, I would like to inculcate the very fear that Mr Heinäluoma has just ended his speech when he has quite a good analysis of the situation in which this Finnish society is fully pushed: it is being pushed into the market forces, it is being turned into a market society. In fact, what I started with today was precisely the fact that this ideology is everywhere, not only in these solutions on unemployment security, but also in the fact that Minister Orpo has indeed proposed lower wages next, for example. And it is so horrifying that, especially now, it seems that the further this government moves, the more, the more the baton swings at the pace of the coalition. That is why it is starting to scare me, Mr President, whether, in the end, when the Minister for Finance says so today, almost tomorrow, the baton has changed and these are the next steps that we shall see.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u133	Mr President! I too agree with the view that the Minister should be present when such a matter is being discussed. This has been mentioned in the past in connection with the various legislative proposals and important matters, that it is important to hear the views and arguments of the government, and now the position of the government has not been heard at all, as long as we do not assume that Mr Vartiainen is aware of this position of the government. The Minister is responsible for the bill that he brings to Parliament, he is also responsible for it to the Government, and in this case it is important that this debate can take place in such a way that the government is able to explain the aspects that have been involved in the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u134	Madam President! I must agree with what has been said above, and I would like to draw your attention to what Mr Heinäluoma has said about what Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, has said today. I, as a left-wing Unioner, would have greeted that vision very well if it had been accompanied by a social dimension, precisely so that the disabled people who would have been given the opportunity to take part in the work would have had the share of their ability to work and their disability to do so. Society would have given the company and the company its share so that we can get people on the labour market who are not able to work full-time. That would have been the right step, and that is the steps we need. We need the very steps that we need to take in society to train those people whose skills are not sufficient for new sectors and regions of positive structural change, so that more is invested there. I look forward to the President's reply, which is of course quite challenging when it comes to government ministers, that is, how can the President promise us here that the ministers will answer? But I will remain anxious to see what the President-in-Office will say to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u135	Madam President! When I have listened to this debate in my office during other work, I found that Mr Heinäluoma thought that there would be little of a government party presence here because there might be a bit of a conscience about this bill, and this is a misunderstanding that I would at least like to correct for my part. There is no conscience at all; on the contrary, it feels very good that the government is promoting its own employment policy programme, which, however, has been the focus of all the proposals to try to break down incentive traps through both carrots and sticks and to ensure that, in all situations, work is always more profitable than idleness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u138	Mr President! I am now, I must say, somewhat confused after listening to Mr Rydman's speech, because we do have the sanctions that have been adopted if a person refuses to accept the job. After all, there will then be sanctions not only for unemployment benefit in the form of a wage, that is, there will be no unemployment benefit at all, but also income support. Income support may also be cut if the person refuses to accept the job. This has nothing to do with a person refusing to accept a job. You have a profound misunderstanding, Mr Rydman, about the content of this bill. So I dare to believe that when you explain to yourself the content of this bill and find that it does not correspond to what you have spoken, you do not support this bill. After all, in this bill, a person who has applied for a job and made his contribution in order to gain a job is punished for not having been recruited by an employer. That is the same thing, Mr Rydman, as is the fact that you are asking for the floor here and the President is not giving it, but you have been provided with the condition that you should speak every day. It's just as fair. There's no difference. You can say that 5% is small money, but it must now be understood that there are not thousands of people there, but tens of thousands of people who are really low-income, for whom the monthly cut of EUR 50 is already substantial, let alone if it happens to be more than EUR 50 per month. I do not think there is any justification for this proposal. A person who has applied and done everything in his power to get a job but who has not been employed by employers will be cut unemployment benefit. As I said a moment ago, this is just as fair as if the sickness allowance for a person receiving sickness allowance is periodically cut because he has not become well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u141	Mr President! Of course, there may be no point in re-examination, the question of whether it is possible for us, at second reading, to have the minister or ministers concerned heard. Now the defenders of the Government's line have mainly been the three male representatives of the Coalition Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u144	Madam President! That is exactly what I would have asked, because I believe that at this stage Parliament cannot simply ask whether it is humbly possible to consult the Minister, but that we must...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u149	Mr President! Mr Rydman, it is good to hear that it feels good, but, of course, when political decisions are taken, it would be desirable for you also to look into the matters on which you are about to decide. I regret to say that this proposal does not meet the objectives of the coalition either insofar as it would dismantle the incentive traps. On the contrary, it further exacerbates the bureaucracy trap which is already the main reason why people are afraid to accept shrapnel work, because these risks are so enormous and so unpredictable from the point of view of the individual. It must also be regretted that this does not make work more profitable. It makes work more profitable to get paid for it. But if you find yourself receiving income support, from which your wages are deducted, it will not increase the incentive to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u150	Madam President! Unlike some here, I would not dare to assume in such a way that colleagues would not be familiar with the matter at hand, even though they may, in some cases, make bizarre interpretations of both the matter under discussion and the speeches made by their colleagues. Among other things, it has been argued here that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also made various comments and that they have not been taken into account. I myself am a member of the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee has explicitly stated that the law can be enacted in the order of ordinary lawmaking, and if the pony is clean, that is what it means. Of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can make specific comments on the substance, but this fundamental issue will not go away. Mr Heinäluoma has here set a special example in which he has compared this job search to the fact that he is here to ask for speeches. It is true, of course, what Mr Heinäluoma said, that it is an explicit question that, if you have not been given a job during that period or met a specified condition, then in such a case you will be cut by a certain proportion — very small, but still. And if that were to be compared to the work we are doing here, that is to say, if part of the representative's remuneration were tied to the fact that there has been a speech here, then of course it may be that, during the more pleasant sittings when we are here, not everyone will be able to speak in the middle of the day if there are so many requests to speak. But if we had such an incentive reward that part of the reward was tied to the fact that it was actually being given a speech, perhaps here late on the night more members of Parliament from the United States would stop by to meet the condition that this incentive mechanism has been baked in. Well, of course, if you look at the work of a Member of Parliament — and here you come to the very point why Mr Heinäluoma's reference point is so special — you wouldn't need this kind of incentive, but if you have better incentives to apply for a job, you probably also need more jobs and more jobs as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u151	Mr President! This constitutional aspect is not insignificant at all, although I would say that it is not necessary to study the Constitution to understand the problem of this proposal, and it is understood by the common sense. However, in order to be more sure, I quote the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: 'As the unemployed, despite their efforts, for the various individual reasons mentioned above, are not necessarily able to meet the legal requirement of activity, the proposal cannot be considered to be unproblematic from the point of view of the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consistently stressed that the refusal of benefits must be justified in relation to the types of employment promotion activities available and which can be attributed to the unemployed person. On the other hand, the Government’s proposal under assessment is, according to its reasoning, a ‘designed calculation provision’ without any individual consideration.’ And again: "The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that there are two ways to reduce the problem of the proposal. The first is to ensure that everyone is effectively able to participate in the activities referred to in Sections 3a(3) and 5(a)(3) of Chapter 6 and Chapter 7 of the Act on unemployment security. This would mean an increase in the supply of the services and activities concerned. In the Committee's view, this too is not necessarily sufficient, as there is no legal guarantee of full access to the service." After all, this is a rather heavy criticism of the fact that this proposal is a real problem for the implementation of fundamental rights. And the committee goes on to say: 'This is why, in the committee's view, the draft law must ensure that the person who does everything reasonably required of him does not become the victim of a reduction in the benefit. This means that Chapter 6 of the draft law, Chapters 3a and 7, Chapters 5a§ For example, it is supplemented by a provision that benefits are not reduced if the job seeker has not been able to find employment or gain access to employment-promoting services for reasons beyond his/her own control." The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has therefore said exactly what I myself am in this legal language and quite a few other Members of Parliament have tried to say this afternoon and this evening. But did the committee do anything about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u156	Madam President! I agree that Mr Heinäluoma's interpretations are courageous in terms of both the scrupulous ears of the representatives of the people of the United States and the statements made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a committee, explicitly assesses whether or not a government proposal can be enacted in the order in which ordinary law is adopted. When drawing up its opinion, the Constitutional Committee will go through those points in this draft law which may have possible links, for example, to constitutional issues or fundamental rights issues. Now Heinäluoma read a number of specific points, which, of course, will be there when a particular point is raised and, on the basis of these specific, analysed points, the Constitutional Committee will come to an end. And in this case, after all the reflection, the Constitutional Committee came to an end to the fact that the law can be enacted in the order of the ordinary law. These problematic points are those in which the substance committee will then have to take a position that the draft law should be corrected by a proposal for a resolution, possibly speculated by the Constitutional Committee, or by another proposal for a solution, before its adoption. But that basic scheme here is precisely that of trying to create sufficient incentives to seek work and that it may also be sought outside its own comfort zone, even on a slightly wider scale than previously sought. Of course, this will help to achieve positive employment effects. And I dare say that there will also be such things. This is a step in the direction of the Danish model, where the results for the positive development of employment have been very positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u157	Madam President! When, as has already been said, and as has been said by more than one representative, we have a few representatives of the government, we have no ministers, we do not have any ministers in the opposition, until the smoke sauna, we must clearly conclude here that, in order to get this matter to a proper hearing, I would like to suggest that the matter should be left on the table for next Monday's plenary session. I also made sure that our agenda and timetable were adhered to by the legislative director that it would be possible to do this without the fact that our agenda would suffer from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u158	Madam President! It is so important that, although we cannot say now that we are doing this and we are talking and talking about it during the dark hours of the night, but on Friday it will soon be 7:00 p.m., it is extraordinary that we are on such an important issue without any ministers discussing such an important individual right and without taking account of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All I can do is support Mr Kari's table-setting proposal. Of course, I must say that it is wonderful to have the backbone to come here, not to smoke saunas, but to have the opposition in a small sanding atmosphere from the office. That's respectable. But, Madam President, with these words it is hoped that on Monday we will have the opportunity, with the Minister in the centre, to deal with this very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u159	Mika Kari, supported by Jari Myllykoski, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 11 December 2017. This means that the matter remains on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table? No, so the debate on the time of the table is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u160	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 21/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u161	Madam President! Even in this recent debate, reference has been made to the grievances, and this increase in alcohol tax is also linked to the kiky agreement. In other words, when the government decided to squat on employees by cutting holiday allowances, forcing employees to do three additional unpaid working days a year and transferring social contributions to employers, the government then decided to make large tax reductions to compensate for this, and then half of the financing of these tax reductions is done by increasing indirect taxes. The increase in the alcohol tax is a 100 million-dollar contribution to this indirect tax increase project. The other half of these tax recovery euros, hundreds of millions, are financed by the government by increasing debt, i.e. debt recovery. But about this increase in the alcohol tax itself: This is a bit of a contradiction. So, as the proposal states, this is primarily a fiscal tax which collects 100 million, but also refers to health policy implications. At the same time, when this increase in the alcohol tax is aimed at increasing the price of alcohol and thereby reducing the consumption of alcohol, the government has brought before Parliament the reform of the alcohol law, which significantly increases the availability of alcohol, which will cause problems in many ways. These are contradictory and I think they are still a little tied up at that board table at the moment, but now this first reading is being carried out. Mr President! There are a lot of things involved in alcohol policy, and now there is the fact that one thing is that we should be able to consume alcohol, while quite a few of us are engaged in it, for example, in restaurants. In 97, 21 per cent of alcohol was consumed in restaurant consumption, now last year it had fallen to 10 per cent. Even at the moment, if that 20% of alcohol consumption were used in restaurants, according to the nutrition and accommodation industry, this would mean employment of about 15,000 people. Therefore, in the protest of our left-wing association, we would assume that, in this situation, efforts would be made to reduce the VAT on alcohol consumption to the same level as the VAT on food in restaurant services, thereby improving the popularity of its restaurant sales in relation to drinking at home or elsewhere, thereby making consumption in the restaurant environment more attractive. This would also help to improve employment in the restaurant sector. This also involves the fact that there is now a business support team at work, and a lot of attention has been paid to the fact that a domestic restaurant has to compete with, among other things, cruise ships, competitors offering a cheaper service through maritime subsidies. In this respect too, if such a reduction in VAT on restaurant concessions is not made, this difference will only increase and the difficulties will thus increase. Therefore, Madam President, in accordance with the objection, I would like to make a proposal for a statement: 'The Parliament requires that the government prepare and submit to Parliament a proposal to reduce VAT on restaurant delivery to the level of other restaurant services.'
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u162	Madam President! I must say at the outset that Mr Uotila has spoken with merit and I support Mr Uotila's proposal. We have to see that when we talk about a restaurant and the VAT bill of a restaurant, many use a saying such as 'under controlled conditions'. It is precisely a flawed and negative form of expression because we should get more to drink in the atmosphere of good service, to bring the positive perspective that people who want to serve the restaurant's customers do it with their own heart and want us to enjoy it there, rather than saying 'don't drink at home, come here and drink under controlled conditions'. Not so, but I believe that if Mr Alatalo were here now, he too would go to play his first set at 10 a.m. rather than 00.30 p.m. so that we could move on to a restaurant culture where we do not have to tip the bottoms with Estonian wines or alcohol bought from Alko, because alcohol at the restaurant is so expensive that we do not have the chance to go there in a way to enjoy the food and enjoy it in the restaurant. It is precisely for this reason that the Left Alliance has also taken the employment aspect, the 15 000 jobs lost, for which we could make considerable further progress with a sensible alcohol taxation policy. It would also be important, from the point of view of the alcohol culture and its use, to do exactly as the Left Alliance has suggested. It is important for us that we also be able to allocate tax revenue on the harmful effects of alcohol. But it would also have been important if the alcohol content of the beverage sold in the shops were raised from a little bit to 5,5 %, if the EU had been able to do so, then at that point we would have had these ethanol-based alcoholic beverages at different rates, so that we could have increased their price. I would have liked to have seen that with regard to these 5,5 alcoholic beverages, we could have raised taxes precisely to the extent that this 100 million, which, in a sense, as far as the calculation of the restaurant alve is concerned, could have been offset by that very tax increase. This would have been a sensible policy. I believe that at some point we will be reawakening to this subject in such a way as to promote tourism services. Tourism is very important to us, and what is more important is that we employ services or that we buy from shops? Let's go to Lapland or Eastern Finland or any tourist company. How important is it that people do not change their purchasing decisions on the basis of the price of alcohol, but buy it through services and not as direct sales?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u163	Mr President! Alcoholic matters do have a big impact on the lives of Finns, and they are also an important factor in public health. As we know, alcohol consumption is directly proportional to two things: one is price, and the other is availability. Of course, this same observation has been made in other countries, especially the Nordic countries, for a long time. Of course, there are problems with this proposal. Continuous tax increases may expose us again to foreign imports, mainly from Estonia. But what is even more regrettable is that this bill is justified by the fact that the government has brought a proposal to the Parliament that strong beer of more than 5% of its alcoholic volume should be imported into grocery stores, and these sodas should also be distributed. This means more than 5000 sales points for these alcohol products and therefore represents a significant, significant change in the distribution of alcohol and, therefore, probably also in consumption. Now, much more sensible than dealing with this bill would be to take into account the very strong message of experts — not even before the government's proposal but also the message here in Parliament — which does not support this increase in distribution by more than 5000 shops. There is a risk that a major error will be corrected by the following error. That is why I think it is very bad if it is true that the government parties have linked these issues to each other. It's really bad. It is particularly poor — if it is true — that, in particular, the centre people are being bought behind the opening of this 5000 distribution points by raising the alcohol tax. We'll be in the woods if these things are real.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u164	Madam President! Regrettably, it seems that these issues are currently linked: the reform of alcohol law and this tax. We, together with its representative Mr Uotila, have now seen quite specifically, at that committee level, that this is the present stage. That's the way it is, and I'm sorry. I would recall that, at this earlier reading of the law, even in this Chamber, we were a little surprised at these, that there are rather strange equations in the government that are supposedly restricting alcohol consumption by raising taxes and then, on the other hand, giving a big signal, with this alcohol legislation, that we should drink more. Seriously, if the availability improves and the percentages rise on the store shelf and there are sodas there, it is quite clear, and that is what all the experts say. We were just talking about whether or not to listen to experts in this house, and it seems to be the most common line in the current government that does not listen. Even in this alcohol law, we did not listen to experts, and that is why this matter is now as it is. Not only is this now linked to this tax proposal, but it is also, according to the government's own assessment, increasing costs, i.e. influencing, for example, the budgetary needs of the police in the future. Given the importance of security issues, we need more money from the point of view, not to mention these public health disadvantages, so that costs are raised, and that is the case. That is why, for quite a number of times in this Chamber, I hope that the government is really prepared to withdraw in this area of alcohol law. As far as this tax law is concerned, I have a little feeling that it is now in the higher hand, if that is what you can say as a representative of the opposition, that apparently the government parties are currently wondering what to do with it. But I say yes that, on all sides, the situation is very confusing, precisely because one hand is being prevented, and then the other side is actually speeding up alcohol consumption. Whatever Mr Uotila has pointed out, this tax side is essentially a fiscal one, and that is also what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u165	Mr President! This, too, is a pity that this is here late in the evening, but there is nothing we can do about it. So this decision-making is going in the wrong direction, because it really is now that we have many such presentations that do not value expert feedback. That feedback was, after all, overwhelmingly clear in the previous proposal to cut unemployment benefit, that it should be warned that this should not be done, and yet these are being taken forward. This has been the case with the control register. In the war reform, which is a huge issue, experts have on many occasions warned about this line chosen by the government, and now the same thing about alcohol. This does tell me something, I don't know what it tells me it's a frenzy to make your own decisions and then you don't want to listen to any other feedback. That's not good. I would hope that this will lead to some reflection on how to take account of expert feedback widely. That if the experts' feedback is very clear and it can be said that not 50 % or 60 % of experts but 80 % or 90 % warn, then we should not proceed. In this case, of course, it would be most reasonable to give up this massive increase in the number of places to drink by 5,000. That would be the sensible line, and here I hope that the representatives themselves will consider what they will vote on when it comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u166	Madam President! Here I do not cast myself as a defender of the government, but I am thinking of the drinking habits that people currently have in restaurants as to whether they drink four cells or three beers, and I do not believe that with this reform this drinking culture will change in any way, and I will not go and judge what it means in general for beer bought from the store. All in all, I would have liked this reform to have made greater efforts to maintain freedom but not to increase the opportunities for more time for sales and to give restaurants the opportunity, in the form of an announcement, to extend the opening hours, but to make it more possible for restaurants to take their customers in so that they would have enjoyed indoors instead of drinking at home and so to speak, in the form of strong drinks bought outdoors, within the framework of good services. It would have been the step in a better European drinking culture... In fact, there is no point in saying that to promote any better European drinking culture, but we could have allowed people to change their own drinking so that it would have become more entertaining and good service to enjoy that alcohol if it was needed and not to have to drink at home before we go to the restaurant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u167	Madam President! I think I had some advance when I was in haste at first reading to propose this statement, and then I had to renew this proposal later. This advance has come to my subconscious, perhaps through the idea that — in connection with this clump and difficulty within the government in this reconciliation of the two laws — can it happen that the second reading may not come but will be interrupted, and perhaps that is why this advance led me to such haste? But one more detail: Representative Mr Myllykoski referred to this earlier that one small problem was noted here — the representative referred to different levels of taxation when talking about cider and fermented cider in relation to such cider made with a lantra — that this original proposal was leading to a deterioration in the status of these fermented cider. They would have had a higher percentage tax increase, which, of course, would not have affected the retail price so much in the same direction, because they are so much more valuable. However, the committee and the section then corrected this in such a way that the next 3 million burdens on fermented cider were then distributed to all the products in committee later on, so that they were even put on the same line as the other ciders produced by fermentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u168	Madam President! Surely this was a preteen, because we do not, as has been said, yet know what will happen to this. I believe that this too is a good example of the fact that this government is not all right now. So it seems rather insecure to be this way and a rather amazing prelude. I will continue to say where Mr Heinäluoma concluded his speech that, now that this is fully linked to this legislation on alcohol, and especially since this effect of alcohol law on certain beverages is very problematic, I would also, for my part, appeal to them, if there were government parties in this Chamber, to reconsider their vote in this Chamber, not to take a stand on this matter of alcohol taxation as such. They're strangely connected here. But indeed, President-in-Office, let us say as a whole that what is strange about this whole thing is precisely that we do not believe the experts. I am concerned not only as a member of the tax section, but more from the point of view of the entire Committee on Finance. At the same time, when we are making a budget right now in Parliament and we are thinking about what revenue and what expenditure we are spending on, there is a risk that, for example, the reform of alcohol law elsewhere will be a policy of increasing spending. It adds — the government itself writes that it increases — the need for resources for police officers, for example, and it increases public health costs. Sometimes in this house you could think about these things in a comprehensive way, at the same time look at the whole of alcohol law, taxation and so on, so that we do not do this nonsense now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u169	Mr President! Let me just conclude by reminding myself that the government's own assessment was that this reform of the alcohol law will mean more than a hundred more police missions. It may be that this reflects what Mr Vartiainen previously pointed out during the evening that this government is trying to employ.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u170	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The hearing was suspended today at 13 p.m. on 8 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u171	Madam President! I asked for the floor during the day when this was started, and I thought it might not be possible to use it. But I asked for it from a general point of view and actually asked it from the point of view of what we discussed here just a very long time ago. In fact, I would have liked to point out that today, in this Parliament, by the government parties, we have also voted in favour of a reduction in pensions, and I do not think that is right. It is, in my view, an unfair policy on the same day that begins with the opinion of the government parties that this government is not unequal and gives a great deal of confidence to the policy which is actually unequal in the government by voting for a vote of confidence. At the same time, as soon as the vote is over, we will go and cut pensions. There will then be a long debate, in which the government parties will not even be allowed to be present, about the de facto weakening of unemployment security and the squatting of the unemployed. But, indeed, in this regard, I just wanted to remind you that once again a rather unfortunate decision was made through pensions. I will wait for it, Mrs Kaikonen, the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, to demand that action be taken last summer to reduce pensioners' poverty, to significantly increase the guarantee pension and to do more. There's no such package of measures. There were minimalist increases in the guaranteed pension, and at the same time index cuts are apparently eating up these increases, and purchasing power in all small and medium-income pensioners is on the side of the minus sign. I think this now reflects some of the government's values. Let it be produced for this record today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u172	Mr President! I share Mr Viitanen's concern. We should make a real bigger programme to tackle pensioners' poverty, and that should mean raising these smaller pensions, including occupational pensions, and then securing basic services that are important to the retired population. It is clear that no pension solution is significant or helpful if, at the same time, there is no access to services, and we know that there has now been a truly worrying development in the health sector during this war, in which basic public health care is beginning to be at risk. However, this is also the most important issue for the retired population. In addition, we are in a situation where there has been no significant improvement on the side of elderly services since the adoption of the Act on Elderly Services, and it is the elderly services that are the ones where we are the most lagging behind the other Nordic countries. So it would be desirable for a real improvement to be made in this issue of pensioners' income, so that a longer-term programme can be set up throughout the sector, how the services of the pensioners' population can be managed. I agree with Mr Viitanen in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u173	Madam President! All we can do is agree on the above speeches. Some kind of reform is needed. Unfortunately, however, the citizens' initiative, which talks about restoring the folded index to its original part, would not help those small workers. It would be just a small, under EUR 2 that would not actually help that position. We should have some kind of comprehensive reform of the earnings-related pension system, and I personally believe that we should have a kind of way of dealing with earnings-related per diem for occupational pensions. We cannot prevent companies from paying very large pensions. That is what our legislation will never achieve. However, we could moderate the amount of pension from a particular income which would then be transferred to the extent that it would be the entire income, if it were EUR 100,000 per year, it would not all go there anymore, but some of it would go there in addition to small occupational pensions, small earnings and, for example, earnings-related pensions worth EUR 1500. We would have to make such a system of solidarity on the employment pension front. Then what else — how do those who do not earn an occupational pension — is that system in the hands of Parliament, but hopefully the signal to the social partners would go that the occupational pension system could be reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u174	Mr President! Former MP Kimmo Kiljunen did an important job when he took the lead in this matter of pensions and brought to Parliament a related citizens' initiative. This led to a very useful debate, and the main content of its debate is that we must not only do justice to the pensioners, but also take care of the level of pensions for young people, future generations. Both things are possible. When this bill was discussed here, the Socialist Group proposed that a broader, more comprehensive programme be made to help pensioners with low income incomes, including those receiving a small pension. Unfortunately, it was lost in the vote. In the summer, I too drew attention to that proposal by the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, Mr Antti Kaikkonen, in which he actually came up with this proposal from the demars early in the year, that a broader programme of this kind would be needed to tackle pensioner poverty. I have been very surprised that nothing has happened to it. That is why I dare to think that this is perhaps something that should still be raised in Parliament, this larger programme, because otherwise the result will be that these cuts will remain permanent, what is now being done with regard to national pensions, and then another basic security which is linked to the National Pensions Index. It is the real achievement that remains of this, and it is, of course, a very sad one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u175	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma recalled the initiative of the former MP, Kimmo Kiljunen, and I think there was a good debate here. The result was, of course, disappointing that no concrete action has been taken by the government to improve the status of pensioners. As Mr Heinäluoma said, the SDP already demanded this comprehensive programme at the time, and we ourselves have, at the moment, acted in accordance with what we have said and said, so that we currently have proposals in our alternative budget to improve the position of pensioners in such a way that it is those guidelines of the SDP's alternative budget that would benefit those pensioners with low and medium incomes. I wish, President, that this would help to create some pressure and perhaps give advice to the government on what they could do now so that the demands of the chairman of the parliamentary group of the largest government party can be taken seriously. I have sometimes asked a few questions: what was the point that this did not happen, because, of course, if it were required at this level, it would have hoped that something like that would have been achieved with these speeches. That is why I have asked how it turned out that today's theme was, too, that Minister Orpo simply did not invite the chairman of the central parliamentary group to the budget debate when there was no result in this respect. So, once again, we are going back to the previous theme of who has the baton and that the collective belief has now overturned this idea of making a programme for the benefit of low- and middle-income pensioners. I hope, President, that it will be done, and Mrs Heinäluoma quite well pointed out here that this is a global issue which the government could very well take up here, even in the coming spring. And we'll be waiting for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u176	Madam President! It is very important that we discuss this pension poverty. In the Left Alliance's own alternative budget, we have been courageous, without the debt of this government, to a greater solution that we can increase and increase national pensions. I think it would be important, even if it is said that talking does not make it clear that we are discussing pensioner poverty. If we opposition parties thought so, and if I were to initiate a debate on it, would I also be able to get names from the Socialist Group so that we could have this debate together? Without political passions, a meaningful debate which could mean that the chairman of the parliamentary group of the largest government party would also take part in that debate because he clearly wanted to take this forward. We could see from the opposition and in one parliament whether this is the way that the stick is actually on the conductor and is only waved by a majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u177	President! As I said, I believe that the Social Democrats should support this kind of thing. We believe it is important not only to have a debate but also to have results. And I do not, of course, think it is a bad idea to have a topical debate here. I dare say that we have at least a great deal and a great deal of pleasure in talking about the status of a pensioner, because we have been very concerned about it. But I hope that the government parties will also sign this initiative, and I would really like to see it because it is quite often said from that line of government parties that we will, but when it comes to concrete action, that this has not happened. And if, at the same time, if such a debate were to take place, government parties would actively demand it from the government, then surely we would also be able to get the government to provide answers, to present various calculations and to identify and hopefully address the very problems that exist. Of course, I may be a little too hopeful, but this is the ideal way of thinking about it. I therefore believe that we should certainly support the idea that Parliament is also discussing the topical debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u178	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 23/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-08-ps-134.u179	Madam President! I think it is a very important bill and it is a good thing that the government understood to separate Section 61 from the reform of the driving licence law and bring it to a separate parliament so that we can make it possible for us, when we have a lot of tourists from China in particular, to have the opportunity here to rent vehicles and drive snowmobile safaris. In that sense, the prompt action of the government must be commended for the understanding that this was not left behind in the whole cluster of the driving licence reform, which would certainly have moved into the next tourist season. Now we are on the same line with the Swedes, so that we enable tourists from Asia and China in particular to come to Finland to enjoy our tourist services, because at least for some part experts have told us that this is a turnover of EUR 1 million, which is what they are becoming. In that sense, the hat must now be lifted on the government and, of course, on the committee that we received this so quickly and that this law can come into force in the form that has been laid down and thought about.
