ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 24 May 2017 at the latest. After a presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace for the speeches requested in advance, with a maximum of 7 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u2	Madam President! One hundred-year-old Finland is a success story among the nations. We rose from the border of Europe to the top of the world's standard of living historically very quickly. The keys to that were hard work, unity and education. However, past success is not a guarantee of the future. In the last decade, our economy has been far from successful. Real GDP per capita is still not at the level of 2008 or even 2007. Without a truly high level of public debt, the development of living standards would have been even worse. We've been in debt for ten years. This harsh truth must be kept in mind when assessing the present state and making decisions. Now the economy is growing and employment is improving, and of course we are all happy about that. However, a large entity must be kept in mind at all times when making decisions. Mr President! Let me first look at the overall picture of the budgetary plan and then turn to the decisions of the mid-term review. Finland's public finances have been weak for almost a decade now, as we know. Slow economic growth, industrial restructuring and the ageing of the population have weakened public finances. However, there has now been a clear change in the economy. We can say that the recession is behind us and that our economy is on a permanent growth path. The Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance predicts an increase of 1.2 percentage points for this year and an increase of about 1% for the years to come. There has been more talk of growth figures recently than there has been in a long time, which is also a good thing. There are many positive signs in the economy and atmosphere. The growth in recent months has been up to 3 percentage points. But the economy cannot be predicted and, unfortunately, economic planning cannot be made on the basis of a few months of growth. The final figures used by the Economics Department for the previous year are the figure of the forecast. They told me that the growth for the rest of the year was weak. However, the positive momentum of the past few months has also been included in the forecast. In the autumn budget debate, the government will have a new forecast. This will enable us to see whether the strong growth of the beginning of the year has continued and, of course, that is what we are working for and that is what we hope for. It's like we're on a watershed. We have the opportunity to achieve permanent growth, to catch up with more and more Finns, to break debt, to safeguard Finnish well-being and to build a better Finland. On the other side of the watershed is the drain back at a time of zero growth, where unemployment is high and public expenditure is constantly exceeding revenue. This will inevitably lead to a deterioration of the welfare society and to poor development for Finns. It is our job to prevent drifting to the wrong side of the water divider. That is why we need a determined policy. The underlying causes of budgetary imbalances are mainly structural. The economic policy line must therefore be based not only on measures to improve public finances immediately but also on reforms aimed at strengthening the potential for economic growth and the sustainability of public finances. This means a determined implementation of the actions envisaged in the Government Programme, as well as constantly new decisions. Just as the positive turn of the economy is the fact that the recession and the normalisation of the cyclical situation are not sufficient to substantially improve the state of public finances, as the ageing of the population continues and structural unemployment remains high. We must be prepared to ensure that Finland's economic growth does not return to the pace of the years and decades preceding the financial crisis. It is estimated that the growth potential of the economy will fall within the knowledge of 1 to 1.5 percentage points over the next decade. The potential for economic growth is limited by high structural unemployment and a reduction in the number of people of working age. The number of people leaving the labour market is increasing and productivity trends seem to be lower than expected. However, public expenditure growth is continuing rapidly until the 2030s. The growth in pension expenditure will gradually begin to stabilise with the retirement of the baby boomers, but the fastest growth phase of care and care expenditure is still ahead of us. In addition, the renewal of fighter acquisitions and other investment needs will put considerable pressure on public finances in the 20th century. The economic growth achieved does not provide room for a loosening of fiscal policy. The debt begins to be at the limits of the resilience of the EMU and the rating agencies and needs to be folded. Here, too, we are on the right track but at a much slower pace than our own objectives. Unfortunately, debt recovery is not possible in Finland. For too long we have revived our economy by living in debt. There is no reason to compromise the size or implementation of the EUR 10 billion package of measures in the Government Programme. The spending limits debate ensured that direct savings of EUR 4 billion in public finances would be maintained. Although some decisions have not achieved the savings target or have been abandoned on the basis of a more detailed assessment, compensatory measures have been applied for. The implementation of the saving target will be monitored continuously and, if necessary, the Government will take further decisions. The government considers the fiscal policy line to be the right one at the moment. For example, the independent Economic Policy Review Council and a number of independent economists, including Nobel Prize winner Bengt Holmström, have also expressed their agreement on the fiscal stance. Ensuring the long-term financing of public services requires the implementation of social and regional reform in such a way as to ensure the savings that the reform aims to achieve. The Government has also drawn up a plan to improve public finances by EUR 1 billion over the next ten years. The most challenging share of the total EUR 10 billion is the strengthening of economic growth and employment. The Government aims to strengthen the conditions for employment and economic growth by means of fiscal measures and measures to support the competitiveness of the economy and productivity growth. The competitiveness agreement agreed in 2016 contributes to the achievement of the objective. However, there is still a clear need for wage moderation and consideration of Finland’s international competitiveness. The Government hopes that the autumn labour market tables will provide solutions that will strengthen employment and competitiveness, which will guarantee peace in the workplace. Madam President! Unemployment is the biggest problem in our society. It's humanly grappling. I'm not good enough? How do I build my own or my family's future? Unemployment causes many problems for people and society. At its worst, it leads to exclusion, loneliness and health problems. In society, unemployment increases inequality and creates ground for confrontation and even extreme thinking. Unemployment is also a major challenge for the economy. We spend more than EUR 6 billion on public expenditure on unemployment per year. In other words, the best way to make Finland better for people and manage the economy is to help the unemployed to work and give young people the opportunity to have their first job. Effective action is therefore needed to increase the employment rate, both in order to increase labour demand and supply. The key is to prevent prolonged unemployment, as, once it has become structural, unemployment does not necessarily fall as the cyclical situation improves. Recession and stable economic growth provide a good framework for action to improve the conditions for growth and public finances. The second half of the term is therefore an opportune time to ensure the implementation of the package of measures envisaged in the Government Programme and to make new decisions on a continuous basis. In other Nordic countries the employment rate is over 75 per cent. In this frame of reference, Finland's 72% target is low and we still have a long way to go, but we are not prepared to compromise on it. Mr President! The budgetary plan includes a so-called spending framework. It will set the frame for ministries' budgets in the coming years. The spending limits mainly guide the spending of money during the Government term. The entire level of the spending limits has already been agreed upon in the Government Programme. The purpose of the framework is to protect taxpayers by locking the amount of total expenditure to be paid. This time again, the government remained within the framework, as is the case with Finnish responsible economic policy. All additional inputs were made within this framework. Mobility was found, inter alia, because immigration-related expenditure is estimated to be significantly less than previously agreed. In addition, the government made a wise policy of concentrating efforts on a few key issues, and little room for manoeuvre was not scattered to be widely used in good things. This enabled additional efforts to be made in terms of skills, safety, employment and transmission. Mr President! Let me now turn to the decisions of the mid-term review of the government. They made a lot of them, and I'm not going through them all, I'm making a few picks. The Government reacted strongly to the challenges of the changed security environment. EUR 98 million will be added to safety from 18 onwards. Of this, 52 million are funds allocated to the administrative sectors of the Ministry of Defence and 46 million to the Ministry of the Interior. The number of policemen and women can be maintained at this year's level, but the protection police and the Border Guard also receive additional resources. We also made additional policies to combat the shadow economy. In line with the guidelines of the Defence Policy Report, additional funding of EUR 50 million per year will be allocated to the maintenance of preparedness, an annual increase of EUR 150 million by the so-called ‘Kanerva Group’ will continue towards the end of the spending limits period, and the first money from the Hornet replacement project will be allocated to 21. As I went through earlier, improving employment is a question of the fate of our nation. Since there is no such miracle cure for employment, the government is constantly making new decisions. Last time decisions were taken in the autumn in a row, many employment-friendly reforms came into force at the turn of the year, and again we had a series of additional measures to improve employment. Let me give you a few examples: The active model of unemployment security decided last autumn is progressing and was confirmed. The model encourages you to be active. The Government's proposal will be ready for statements in the near future, and the law will leave for Parliament before the summer. The employment services will be strengthened by additional contributions of EUR 35 million. The total employment impact of the active model is estimated at up to 8000 people. Day care fees were reduced by approximately EUR 90 million. The decision to dismantle incentive traps, especially from low and middle incomes. 6,700 families are eligible for free early childhood education. This is also excellent for equality of opportunity, because early childhood education is the most effective part of our education system, according to studies. The employment impact of the current reduction in payments is estimated to be more than 4,000 more. We also decided to reform enforcement and bankruptcy legislation. The enforcement code is amended so that the enforcement officer must, in principle, grant the debtor, who has been employed after a long period of unemployment, a postponement of the start of the liquidation if the debtor so requests. This gives more room to many enterprising people who would like to work. The employment impact is a few hundred, but it is a significant change in attitude: not to condemn failure but to give it another chance. If you don't try, you can't do it. Finland needs to take risks and tolerate failures. The reform of bankruptcy legislation will also be initiated in such a way that individual bankruptcy will be possible in the future. The employment effect of these two measures can be estimated at up to a thousand people. But bankruptcy legislation can also provide a significant boost to our entrepreneurial policy and the activities of entrepreneurs. We also promoted regional mobility by extending the time limit for duty-free allowances and extending the mobility allowance. Mr President! The Government also decided to make changes to housing allowance in the dispute. This is necessary. Expenditure has increased in an unsustainable way to nearly EUR 2 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u7	Now for the group discussion round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u8	Mr President! The opposition party's message to Finns celebrating May Day was: Prime Minister and Government, separate. [Heckling] Fortunately, though, real life in different parts of the country tells the opposite. Finally, Finland’s economy is growing, and employment is finally improving. Your turn has taken place in all sectors of the industry, and I am pleased to say that the opposition has done so. [Heckling] Mr President! It is a good thing that we are allowed to say here today what has been done in recent years. It is even more positive that we can hopefully look further together and evaluate Finland’s future. So, what's next, what's the next step? Many people predict significant economic growth. In fact, the forecast by the Ministry of Finance is much more cautious than, for example, the latest forecast by the insurance company Ilmarinen. These significant differences should tell us that we are living at a time when the economic and employment transition has already taken place and can have a very significant impact at best. Even a weaker prognosis means that the decline of the years will turn into growth. Dear Parliament! In the economy, too, trust is the basis of everything. When people and businesses rely on the future, they dare to spend and invest. According to a recent survey of households, Finns now believe in their own economic security significantly more than one year ago. The government’s important message supports this experience of households: savings decisions have now been made. The overall tax rate will also not increase. As a Parliament, we must be able to strengthen confidence in economic recovery and trust in the future. Hopefully, positive developments can also be strengthened in the labour market during the autumn negotiations. The opposition will also be asked whether it will continue to be a May Day talk or whether it will be able to contribute to strengthening the positive development in line with the theme "Joining" of our 100th anniversary of independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u11	Honorable Speaker! The public finances plan is the most important tool in the financial management of the Finnish state. At the same time as we have drawn up the Government's economic guidelines for 2018 to 2021, we have also drawn up a stability programme, which in turn will be forwarded to the Commission. The economy has started to grow. The opposition will argue that government action is not likely to bring about economic change. This is obviously not the case because our economy has already begun to grow. This turn of events has taken place about a year ago. Growth forecasts have been raised early in the year. The Bank of Finland's GDP forecast is already around 1.6. Other forecast institutions and banks also improve their outlook on Finland's economy. We cannot quite reach the growth rate of the world economy, but this good government is working to catch up with us. There are many factors supporting growth. Exports in a number of industries are doing well. In fact, there is steady growth in exports everywhere. But what is positive is that new support legs are also emerging for the Finnish economy. Take medical technology, for example, and its exports have almost doubled over the past few years. The tourism sector, in turn, employs more and more people. Revenue from the tourism sector is exactly the same as income from exports. In turn, the Competitiveness Pact has improved Finland’s cost competitiveness. This is reflected in export figures and job creation. Orders are more easily created and orders are growing. In turn, the willingness to invest has increased considerably. If you look at the huge investments in the forest industry, they are reflected in a wide area, just like the suction of the New Town Car Factory and shipyard orders bring work not only to Southern Finland but also to Finland as a whole. Consumers' confidence, on the other hand, is at a record level. Never before have these readings been measured. Above all, it is remarkable that we trust in the growth and improvement of the Finnish economy, i.e. the national economy. However, households have recently also relied on their own economy. This, in turn, leads households to invest in dwellings or, for example, to change cars. This will all contribute to prosperity, jobs. We have come from such a difficult vicious circle into a good, positive economic circle. In turn, consumer purchasing power has improved slightly. We are still working to increase the purchasing power of small and medium-income people. It's about travel. Travel from abroad to Finland for Asians alone has increased from 50,000 overnight stays to 250,000 overnight stays. If we can double this, i.e. get there for half a million nights, it will bring 19,000 new jobs to the service sector, and these jobs will often be created in municipalities where there is a shortage of jobs in the service sector, i.e. Northern Finland and Eastern Finland. The Government invests 50 million in tourism and export promotion. We consider the Tourism 4.0 project to be a very good decision. The outlook for public finances has improved considerably. The expenditure ratio has decreased, i.e. the ratio of public expenditure to GDP has fallen, and this has led to a balanced local government finances. Of course, thanks also to the decision-makers. The big picture of employment is positive: unemployment is falling, above all long-term unemployment has decreased. The duration of periods of unemployment has also been reduced. In this mid-term term, we have been able to create the conditions for the creation of 45,000 jobs. On a flat-rate scale, it wants to say that we will get about 90,000 jobs, but when the economy appears to be accelerating, it is possible, even 100,000, that is completely possible. And if we were to relate to the achievements of the previous government, there were 100,000 unemployed. In the framework negotiations, additional contributions to knowledge, communication, growth, employment and reform were decided. Flagship institutes 60 million, Tekes 60 million, vocational competence centres 80 million, Academy of Finland 50 million, police officers 46 million, Defence Forces 52 million. Supo got $3.5 million. Now to what the budgetary plan gives to the low-income. Reduction of day care fees — this was dealt with earlier in two speeches. With tens of thousands, these payments will be reduced. They are the saved hundreds that go for immediate consumption. The Yle-payment, on the other hand, will be abolished from 200,000 people, which means that around 500,000 people have been cancelled during this reign. In practice, then, this means that you can make a thousand dollars a month so that it comes in a clean hand. Now, if you look at how the over-indebtedness situation is improved, 8 million will be invested in this work, 13 million in the future. The growth of housing expenditure will be curbed by making an index change to housing allowance. A considerable amount of investment was added to the employment services. My figure is 25 million, and here it has been pointed out that 35 million — we still have to see which one is more accurate, however notable. The above-mentioned guardian allowance came into the study allowance. The enforcement legislation will be reformed, i.e. the debtor who has been employed after a long period of unemployment will be granted a moratorium on the start of the liquidation. Intoxicant abusers were given support. Then this package of NEET measures: 19 measures, very good. Well, what was spared? The cost of immigration has fallen because around 3,000 people have arrived in Finland less than anticipated. In other words 38 million out of municipal integration training and 511 million out of municipal integration support. Now we are moving towards a new budget, next year's budget. This is already being prepared. Future decisions must continue to increase the purchasing power of people with low and middle incomes, supporting growth, promoting employment and well-being. Regional development must be supported. I share the desire to have a good debate on Finland's economy and future with respect for one another. Finland will only rise through cooperation. Together — Tillsammans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u12	Mr President! After almost a decade of coma, our economy is finally returning to growth. The Ministry of Finance estimated that growth was 1.2 per cent this year. The figure, which would still have been regarded as worryingly low in the 21st century, is welcomed with joy in this time period. Finland’s economic history has been a history of growth. For nearly 150 years, our economic growth has been the second fastest in the world. The growth story of the small nation’s tar exports is unique. Unfortunately, as a result of the financial crisis and the restructuring of industry, this story has been on hold for almost ten years — not much of the achievements to record in the history of our economy. The market economy is growing, and demand for Finnish products and expertise would again be in the global market. Writing the next chapter of our economic history is in the hands of this government, parliament and social partners. Finland will no longer last another lost decade. That is why we must act now, while things are still in our own hands. Mr President! In addition to growth figures in the beginning of the year, stronger confidence in the economy among businesses and consumers is welcome news. Positive expectations for the future and improved economic conditions show that the government is on the right track. Reductions in labour taxation, deregulation and increased competition, modernisation of social services, responsible fiscal policy and the Competitiveness Pact have all strengthened Finns' hope for a better tomorrow. It is an important task for us politicians to bring hope to people’s everyday lives — a realistic view that tomorrow is better than today. It would be tempting to paint castles with pastel colors, but a cracked and crumbling wall cannot just be covered with paint. The government does not build a belief in the future on empty promises, but we have also had to make difficult decisions — to compromise today’s welfare, so that tomorrow’s care and civilisation can also be guaranteed in a lasting way. Mr President! Our country's youth has a huge potential. One in five Finns aged 18 to 24 think of entrepreneurship as an alternative to themselves in the near future. At the beginning of the 21st century, only about two per cent of young people agreed. Growth in entrepreneurial activity is particularly valuable given that new jobs are mainly created by small and medium-sized enterprises. For the assembly, it is important that the decisions of the mid-term panel strengthen the faith of young people in the future. Growth will be supported by investments in cutting-edge research and innovation. It was decided to finance the Academy of Finland and Tekes and capitalise a total of EUR 240 million. Knowledge will be strengthened by launching the modernisation of upper secondary school education, by investing more in the reform of vocational education and by extending the tax exemption for education provided by the employer. In total, the Government will invest more than EUR 400 million in education and research. The equality of opportunities, i.e. the right of every child and young person to pursue their dreams, is strengthened. Support for schools in the challenging regions was doubled and support for young people in education and employment increased. An important step towards free part-time early childhood education was taken in Riihe by reducing early childhood education fees for low- and middle-income people and by halving the sister’s contribution from all families. The income of family students was also facilitated by the EUR 75 share of parental care allowance. The Coalition Party wants to take care of everyone and ensure that the well-being generated by economic growth is fairly distributed. The acceleration of digitalisation and robotisation will increase our well-being, but the reverse is the decline in traditional jobs and the polarisation of the labour market. That is why the overall reform of social security that is now being launched is an essential means of responding to change and a good opportunity to take social protection in a more inclusive direction, in which the combination of work and security is more flexible. Madam President! The additional investments were financed within the strict spending limits and through the sale of state assets. The Coalition Party considers it important for the Government to address the indebtedness of public finances and the sustainability gap. However, the most recent forecast by the Ministry of Finance shows that current growth is not sufficient to eliminate the general government deficit or increase the employment rate to the 72% target. Percentage growth warms up, but it must be remembered that the financing of our whole welfare society has been put on a much faster growth assumption. Let us be frank, then, that what the government is doing today is not enough. So there is enough work to do. In two years, there will be plenty of time to do if there is will and courage. In the opinion of the Assembly's parliamentary group, new employment-enhancing solutions should be made in addition to tax solutions in the budget debate next autumn. No stone can be left unturned for growth and employment. We therefore believe that the reform of family leave, more job-specific agreement and the reassessment of business subsidies must be kept in the range of instruments to be considered. Mr President! The most worrying message of the budgetary plan is that our modest growth is in fact close to our long-term growth potential. High structural unemployment combined with the absolute decline in the working-age population has pushed us into a difficult corner. This means that measures to boost domestic demand only have an inflationary effect. Even the opposition would like to bear this in mind in this cyclical situation that the recovery card can be kept at the bottom of the pocket. Instead of a cyclical pit, we are in a structural pit, from which we can only emerge through more labour supply and more flexibility in the labour market. You don't have to look for poppies, you have to complete the measures of Juha Sipilä's Government Programme. In order to achieve these objectives, I appeal not only to the government partners but also to the social partners. I strongly believe that everyone’s goals are consistent — to have more work and well-being in Finland. The government alone cannot do all of this, and that is why we must find a way in which we can make a fair and responsible deal with our labour market more flexible. I would like to express this wish to the social partners, particularly for the sake of the livelihood and well-being of our over 300,000 unemployed and their families. Together, the government and the social partners can defeat the greatest factor of inequality in our society, unemployment, and thus write a new success story in our economic history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u17	Mr President! The Greens thank the Government for the decisions taken in the mid-term debate to correct the cuts that have already been made, particularly in terms of education and skills. However, it is misleading to talk about big investments when we first cut hugely and then patch up a little. 20000 children are relieved when the Board of Directors decided on the separation of care for the student allowance. Nevertheless, the combined result is less than the situation before the cuts. Vocational education has been cut by 190 million. [Department:Eric! ] Mr President! The Greens welcome any positive news on economic and employment developments. However, Finland can do better, both in terms of structural reform and in terms of concrete measures to facilitate people's daily lives and increase employment. The Greens commit themselves to implementing the social welfare reform together with the Government, as long as the Government commits itself to implementing the original objectives of the reform. It is premature to say that the social welfare reform will achieve cost-development savings of EUR 3 billion if not all the social welfare proposals have been submitted, the freedom of choice law will still be the fault of the Constitutional Committee, the information system solution does not exist and the provinces have not been set up. When the government's freedom of choice model is realised, instead of savings, the risk is that the total costs will increase. There is now a need for good proposals, as the economic and employment objectives set by the government itself are becoming incomplete. In a situation such as this, when it is said that there will be no further cuts, the overall tax rate must not rise and the reform of family leave or business taxation will not be possible, the means to bring about an economic and employment transition will be limited. So the government leaves a great deal of expectation in the post-Bulgaria Party meeting and in the autumn budget debate. Without new and effective employment measures and the implementation of structural reforms, it will be difficult to bring about a sustainable turn for the better. Mr President! One of our biggest challenges is the large number of long-term unemployed, as well as their conversion into structural unemployment. The long-term unemployed are not a coherent group of people and therefore specific measures are needed to support young people, to support people with multiple problems and to support those who are unemployed who have begun to change their industrial structure. According to a recent survey by the business delegation, there are already 79,000 men of the best working age in Finland who do not or do not even apply for a job. There were a lot of good small measures to facilitate and take into account both the position of unemployed job seekers, the situation of self-employed persons and the position of entrepreneurs and, for example, rules on the use of zero-hour contracts. However, it is necessary for the government to assess the impact of its previous employment measures on long-term unemployment, such as the Kiky Pact, the amendments to the annual leave and unemployment security Act and the reform of public employment and business services. Mr President! During the municipal elections, it was claimed that the reform of family leave would deprive families of their sovereignty or would completely destroy home care support. Speeches of this kind are ignorance of the options put forward and why they are presented. The family leave system affects society in many ways. It is a question of family welfare, economics, employment, equality and social policy. The problems of the current family leave system are well known and almost all parliamentary parties and various organisations have presented their own options on how to increase family well-being, increase the number of people employed and promote gender equality. Nevertheless, the government did not reform the family leave. The green option earmarks 5 months of earnings-related family leave for both parents and allows parents in one 5 month period to share in the best possible way. Home care support would become more flexible care allowance. The Greens want to make it possible for subsidies to be used also in splits and part-time. This would be the flexibility and freedom of choice that has been talked about for a long time. The Greens give their sincere thanks to the government for reducing early childhood education fees and changing the euro that has been invested. From this it is good to move towards part-time free early childhood education. Getting more children into high-quality early childhood education is an effective means of preventing exclusion. At the same time, it promotes employment for women in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u20	Mr President! After a long recession, Finland is now experiencing moderate growth and investments are also on the rise. Your turn towards a growth career is absolutely welcome. It was also inevitable at some point, even though everyone is now trying to take credit for it. Even though Finland is now receiving drawbacks from the world market, the Ministry of Finance forecast that growth will be expected in the coming years to be only about a good one per cent. In the context of low growth, it is increasingly important that economic policy aims at maximising the impact on employment while ensuring social justice and reducing income disparities. This government has failed both. Achieving the government's employment objective would require much bolder measures to reform the parental leave system, to dismantle the red tape traps for unemployment security and enforcement, to increase employment appropriations, and to invest heavily in transport infrastructure and renovation. On the other hand, the government has reduced skills and social security to 4 billion savings, increasing income differentials through tax reductions. As a result of the Sote reform, it is guaranteeing a market of EUR 10 billion for large business groups. Mr President! The budgetary plan shows that the price of the competitiveness pact for central government finances is 800 million. Ministers, that is a sensible economic policy and a sensible labour market policy far from it. In addition to the unpaid extension of working time, reduced net earnings, and many of them almost a third of the cut in holiday money, Finnish workers are allowed to fill the nearly one billion hole in the state budget that this agreement leaves behind as taxpayers. You can't find any money for your education, you can't find any money for your social security, but to pay for your salary cuts, you've found almost a billion dollars. There is also money for fighter acquisitions, and there is also that much maligned debt money. In the view of the government, the government is in no way allowed to borrow on investment in employment, but it is good enough to buy fighters. According to Prime Minister Sipilä, this debt is not taken into account in ending debt. Therefore, it is only decided not to take into account a certain proportion of the public debt that will stop living in debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u24	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! The Sipilä Government has kept the mid-term review of its government programme and updated the budgetary plan. The result is slightly positive but rather modest. It is clearly seen that the poor results of the Finnish people and the very poor results of the city centre in the municipal elections have made the government very cautious. The government's main objective of increasing jobs and raising employment rates to 72% is not achieved despite the fact that the economic cycle has turned towards a better one. Most of the major decisions that, according to experts, would be needed to achieve the objective have been postponed or put on ice altogether. The reform of the labour market and the better opportunities for local agreement did not come to nothing. The reform of family policy did not work out, although there are good models that would both improve the position of women in the labour market and increase the opportunities for men to spend longer with their children at home when they were small. Courageous tax decisions, which would reduce the extremely high tax pressure on labour taxation in Finland, also came to nothing. So the question to the government is: why do you not seize the opportunity that is now being offered? Experts agree that the reform of the social and regional systems means a radical change in the tax system. Should we not seize this opportunity and, at the same time, make other tax decisions that make sense and reduce the strict tax burden on labour?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u25	Madam President, the värderade talman! The Finnish economy is slowly turning into a boom, and this is good news.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u26	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary groups for their good prepared speeches. Perhaps the basic scenario here is: I see that, if we look at what has happened over the last two years, the economy has undoubtedly started to grow, there is no doubt that employment development is positive, there is no doubt that we are moving in the right direction. That is a big change, and if there is something good that the former government has done on the basis of it, then thank you all for it, but this government is making a determined economic and employment policy, which will certainly lead us to go towards a better one all the time. But since our structural problems in society and in the economy are so great, plus the fact that the world economy has not given us any traction, this rate has not yet been as fast in economic growth as we ourselves have hoped. But we are now going at a rate of 70% of the employment rate. What makes it a tough target is that the baby boomers retire each year, and that the number of people employed is rising is really hard work. But let's go in the right direction. We need constant measures. They're in the government program. They were made last autumn in a row, a ten-point programme. At the turn of the year, employment measures were introduced, new employment measures were introduced, and we are doing them all the time — and the idea that the last week before the elections the last reforms will be carried out that will create jobs and jobs. There is no single solution, and when I listened to the opposition's speeches, your methods of raising employment, such as the reform of unemployment benefits by the SDP, were very much inconceivable. This is the direction in which we are developing unemployment security: you can use start-up money, you can use your education, you can develop yourself. In addition, mold schools and transport projects were brought up on your roads. The Government has already made a significant contribution to transport projects in its programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u39	Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes. After that, it's a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u40	Mr President! At the government's mid-term debate, we first reviewed the state of implementation of the Government Programme. On the economic side, our task has been to find solutions to the sustainability gap of around EUR 10 billion. Some 80% of this work has now been carried out in the first two years of operation. The heavy savings target of EUR 4 billion agreed in the Government Programme is now in place. The additional $2 billion cut that the SDP has intimidated for six months has not come to fruition, we kept our promise of it. Major reforms are progressing on schedule. The social and regional reform is estimated to bridge the sustainability gap of just under EUR 3 billion. We also agreed on the content of the reform of the functioning of public finances. It will achieve cost savings of around EUR 1 billion in the sustainability gap review. In addition, we have implemented a pension reform that has not been completed in the last period. The laws on the freedom of choice of wars are on Tuesday in the Government and next week here in Parliament. In the spending limits debate, we allocated as much as EUR 1 billion to the development of essential social services for cost savings. There's good news about the economy every day. The economy is growing, the employment rate is rising and unemployment is falling. The improved situation is also reflected in long-term unemployment. Attention will continue to be paid to growth and employment measures. The remaining 20% of our sustainability deficit will depend on their success. We now have two years to work hard to achieve the economic and employment objectives. The economic realities are clear and the employment rate does not rise automatically. In the long run, even that 72% employment rate will not be enough. Even though we've moved on, there's a lot of work to be done. The reform continues. Mr President! Following the analysis of the situation, we decided to focus on four elements in the mid-term debate: knowledge, growth and employment; care; reform; security. We all know that there is very little room for manoeuvre in the economy. However, we were well placed to direct the available euro to these four entities. In order to boost knowledge and employment, we invest in product development, renewal, cutting-edge research and the effectiveness of research. The Innovation Financing Centre Tekes will be given additional powers totalling EUR 70 million and the Academy of Finland EUR 50 million for 2018-2019. In addition, EUR 60 million will be made available to capitalise both flagship projects and Tekes. I believe that this will speed up the economic transition and create new jobs with high value added. The State is also preparing to capitalise vocational training centres of excellence for a total of EUR 80 million. The demand for labour has increased. Now we have to get an employee and a job to meet. To this end, an additional EUR 25 million per year will be allocated to employment services and regional mobility in pursuit of work will be supported. Early childhood education fees for people with low and middle incomes will be reduced. Mr President! We also made important efforts to prevent the exclusion of young people, in particular, by nearly EUR 60 million a year. For example, the equality of comprehensive school is strengthened, the care of substance abuse mothers is invested in, the student allowance is increased by a guardian. In employment and entrepreneurial activities, the use of pay support is enhanced, the employment of over-indebted persons is facilitated, the self-reliance period of sickness allowance for entrepreneurs is reduced and the unemployment security of self-employed persons is improved. Day care fees will be reduced from those on low and medium incomes. The safety of Finland as a whole and of all Finns will be ensured. We make a strong contribution to national defence, the police, the Border Guard and the protection police: an annual increase of just under 100 million. In the Government's energy and climate strategy, Finland has decided to abandon the use of coal for energy purposes, halve the use of imported oil and increase the share of renewable energy to more than 50%. These actions will: Finland fulfils its commitment to the Paris climate agreement. To this end, EUR 25 million will be added for each year of the spending limits period. I am returning to the special conflict between the SDP's speeches and actions in this debate, at the end of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u42	Now we can start the debate. I'll ask those involved to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u43	Mr President! Of the speeches that have been made here, I am thinking in particular of the wise statement made by the Minister for Finance that when there is little money, it will be used wisely. I'm glad this is what the government did in last week's negotiations. Prime Minister Sipilä said: let us work hard for the next two years. It is quite right and necessary for the government to look at the next two years with the same diligence. We're in the middle of reforms, we're in the middle of a job. On the other hand, the speech by opposition leader Rinte, who began with the accusation of intrusiveness, was, on the other hand, a mere suffocation of the alternative. I note that you are very critical of the employment rate deficit in the government's actions, that your own evidence of the term of Minister for Finance is not particularly dramatic. In my opinion, the employment rate fell by 0.5% during your period and there were 17,000 more long-term unemployed. I don't think that's particularly commendable if you're here to judge others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u44	President! Just a few comments. Representative Aalto made a good point about these 75,000 missing workers. The Government has this package of NEET measures in point 19 to try to get these people to start the training path and then get them to work. Mr Östman wondered about job creation. The Competitiveness Pact is currently working for us: 11,000 jobs in the technology industry alone during the first three months of this year. In terms of cost competitiveness, Germany is rapidly being achieved. The SDP had a reference to mold schools. We need to develop new procurement models on that side. At the moment when we are acquiring walls, we will have to get it in the future that we do not have indoor air problems for children there. Which means we've got to find some new ways to go to over a thousand schools. It cannot be that our children attend moldy schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u45	Madam President! Finland's economy is growing, employment is improving, indebtedness is slowing down, the confidence of citizens, households and businesses in the future is much better. It can be said that the government's actions are beginning to bite and the turn of the Finnish economy has taken place, the direction is the right one. However, listening, for example, to the speech of the left-wing parties and the opposition on May Day, calls for a change of direction and is saying that the wrong thing is going to happen. It is necessary to ask the representatives of the honourable opposition what direction you would now like to see this economy turn, when it is finally moving in a positive direction, when the Finnish economy is getting better — is it going back to the lowlands of deprivation and misery that we have just come up from?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u46	Mr President! For citizens, the most important thing for welfare services and safety nets is what happens in employment, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. The targets of this government for a 72% employment rate and 110,000 new jobs are becoming unattainable, as the government itself states. State Secretary Martti Hetemäki said that an employment rate of up to 80% was needed to secure the welfare state in the future. Now the question is, how does this government intend to remedy this situation? Now, after the mid-term review, there are no answers to the strong increase in the employment rate, the strengthening of the position of the unemployed in the workplace by creating new jobs. It must be remembered that when the social democrats were in a very difficult global economic situation, they were in a mood. Now you are in the wind and your goals will not be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u47	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: if all the parliamentary parties and various organisations have said that our present family leave system needs reform — and a large number of operators have come forward with their own solutions, which are certainly easy to choose from, which could also be taken up by the government — why is the family leave system completely unrenovated? Another question in the direction of Prime Minister Sipilä. — Prime Minister, would you listen? Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u50	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you know as well as we do in this Chamber that this competitiveness pact would not have been created without government action. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, the government decided on the goal of reducing labour costs and was prepared to promote this through coercive laws, i.e. direct cuts in wages through legislation. This was the situation where the social partners were forced to agree on this whole. The question is: why is the government, which says that it is concerned about the balance of central government, willing to pay such a high price for these wage cuts, especially given that this alleged lack of cost competitiveness would also have been corrected by a moderate pay line, and given that wage increases in Finland's rival countries are considerably higher than those here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u51	Madam President! I det sysselsättningsprogram som svenska riksdagsgrupen för ett par veckor sedan presenterade för statsminister Sipilä betonades det att det behövs åtgärder på macroplanet, men att det även är vasentligt med små mikroåtgärder som gör det lättare att vara företagare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u52	Mr President! Minister Orpo said that I would have said in my speech five times that nothing was enough. I checked my speech, and I'm really worried. Either this was an accident at work from the Minister, or the Minister of Finance can't count because I couldn't find one. In one sentence, we found a sentence that the decisions taken by the government are partly in the right direction but are not sufficient, i.e. one time. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u55	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to see who set the hardest targets for this spending limits debate. It was the government itself who said that now is the last time to take the decisions with which the government achieves its own objectives. As far as employment is concerned, the Prime Minister said in March that the time for decisions is in the spending limits debate, and now we are going to see what decisions have been taken. We didn't do the family leave reform, we didn't get started. Nothing happened to the situation of young men, to compulsory education. Small entrepreneurs were not supported, for example, by raising the threshold for VAT-free activities. You can give a plus for day care fees, but otherwise you can think of the old saying when you hear the government saying it's a terrible job not to do anything. And if you do not believe us, then the government’s own document is believed in what is going to happen to those goals. The government deficit will be three times what you have set in the Government Programme as your goal. The employment objective is falling below half. There's no way to draw a conclusion from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u56	Mr President! I am also concerned that you now have your hands up in the government for some reason. The Ministry of Finance itself estimates that the government’s own objectives will not be fulfilled. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u59	Mr President! You really don't have to keep the candle under the stabilizer anymore. Finland’s exports are drawing, the economy is growing and employment is improving. However, this change has not taken place on its own. Since the last parliamentary term, this turn has required a sense of purpose and also a special capacity for cooperation and cooperation, starting with the Competitiveness Pact. The local government finances programme for 2018–21 tells us that the local government finances are mostly doing fairly well. In the last parliamentary term, a disaster was predicted for the municipalities, and no wonder. The then major municipal project halted the development of municipalities. Billions of municipal services were cut and municipalities were postponed to new tasks but not to resources to carry them out. However, a change of direction has now been made. Mr Vehviläinen, the additional debt taken up by the municipalities has mainly been spent on, and specifically on, additional investments,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u60	Madam President! There were many good, many slightly inferior solutions, but it is clear that the coldest ride is for us savonlinna people. A year ago, it was decided to abolish the teacher training institution in Savonlinna with the help of the Board of Directors. This means that we are leaving 900 student places, 300 jobs and 14 million of the purchasing power of citizens. This can be seen in relation, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that this means the same thing as for the people of Helsinki that half of the 32,000 study places were to be abolished from the University of Helsinki — half. You can understand that this decision is a terrible one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u61	Madam President! Here the Minister of Finance, Orpo, has wondered when the opposition has criticised the measures as inadequate. Well, let's take a look. The government cut EUR 112 million of student aid and now gives back EUR 10 million. For vocational education, the government cut 190 million and now gives back 15 million. If I had a magician's jacket on and I dug up a 20-euro bill,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u64	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers and thank you to the group speakers. Here humor and magic numbers continue, but to continue on the subject itself: The Prime Minister made very clear the most important points. The goal of saving the government is all set, there were no more cuts and no more cuts. The pension reform has been carried out, the reform of social services is progressing, the competitiveness pact has been concluded, economic growth has been achieved, employment is improving. The résumé of this government is far more handsome than those who are still criticising us here. Now the subject of the criticism has changed to the fact that the objectives are tough. Well, the results are the most important, and the targets are also adhered to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u67	Värderade fru talman! Det är ju så att när man tittar på regeringens förslag till budgetramar för framtiden så är åtminstone jag bekymrad över den stora ekonomiska bilden. På Vilken bas bygger man den ekonomiska framtiden? Vi vet att vi måste höja sysselsättningen, vi kommer inte att nå upp till regeringens mål på 72 percents sysselsättningsgrad, och vi måste också stävja låntagningen. Vi måste helt sluta luta på lån i framtiden om vi ska ha en valfärdsstat att ge över till våra ungdomar. Därför är jag bekymrad över att man när det gäller vårdreformen räknar med att den fortsättingsvis ska spara tre billionaire, trots att stort antal av dem som har gett utlåtanden inte tror att så ska vara fallet, och att det inte kommer att sk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u68	Madam President! Before the mid-term review, the government promised that the benefit cuts for citizens would be over. However, this hastily prepared change in housing allowance does cause major problems for many people on low incomes and drive them to a income support hatch. The reform should have been linked to the overall reform of social security and ensured that no one is in an unreasonable situation. In addition, this morning we heard that a very important reduction in day care fees is intended to compensate for the increase in property tax. Is that true, Minister of Finance? Is it true that, especially for low-income pensioners, who may already have housing costs of about 40% of their income, this increase in property tax will further increase housing costs? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u69	Madam President! It is truly an excellent thing that the Finnish economy has now risen from the recession and a clear turn has taken place: investments are being made, jobs are opening up, and more and more people are getting to work. In this situation, the government has now taken responsible decisions in its spending limits line, remained within the framework, ensured the sustainability of the 4 billion base of economic adjustment, but we are still living beyond our assets and our debt. Debt is not bad if you have the ability to pay the debt. But do we have it in the future? Our employment rate is still too low, in 13 years' time we will have 300,000 more than 75 years of age, a record number of educated working-age people moving out of the country, work-related immigration will not pull, and the birth rate will be record low. Therefore, the debt recovery proposed from the left is not an option. Improving employment is an option, and that is why the government will continue to work and these measures will continue in the budget debate and move forward. This mid-term result is good for the government, but this is not enough for us. We will continue to work on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u70	Mr President! It is true that what is good in this spending limits decision is cancellation. It's called canceling. It is that the government withdraws from previous cuts. This despite the fact that a party — I think it was a coalition — has sometimes been involved in a major election campaign with the theme of ‘can’t move forward by cancelling’. Well, I'm glad you're backing off your bad, crazy surgical decisions, even though of course you're proud of it as a great achievement. But what does this really mean? That means that first you cut 40 million out of primary schools and give 15 back. You are marketing a major improvement to students: first you are cutting EUR 86 and giving 75 of the students back, which means you are only cutting EUR 11. Here's the truth. Fortunately, in this case, despite the election campaigns, the coalition will be cancelled. But see also the truth that with these decisions you are increasing inequality and not once again taking care of employment. And that's why we're really backing back in Finland if this line goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u71	Mr President! It is gratifying, it is good news that the government's agenda is producing results: the economy is growing, more jobs are coming, entrepreneurship is being promoted. It was a very good thing to hear it when Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, whom I respect very much, said that the work is continuing, that the objectives are ambitious, that the work is not being stopped, that the work is being carried out persistently towards the budget line. There's a lot of things I didn't do. The world isn't ready. The reform of family leave is one thing that needs to move forward. The government's policy gives hope, but the opposition's speeches were not visible. What was in the speeches? You were understating everything. Nothing's anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u74	Mr President! Family leave reform, which supports employment and creates more flexible opportunities for families to share the free, extended compulsory education age, such as Mr Roope, President of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. The new house has recommended raising the VAT-free threshold for small businesses to EUR 30000, supporting the hiring of the first employee — yes, there is. But unfortunately, these are not on the government's list. Now it would be good to know what the line of the assembly is: when it was said in the group statement that the government did not achieve these objectives, that there was still work to be done, Sarkomaa says that everything has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u77	Prime Minister Sipilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u78	Mr President! Mr Rinne, you said that the global economy, the world economy, was the reason for the figures of the previous government. The growth in the global economy was 3.9 per cent in 2011, when the SDP started in the government. The following year it was 3.2. When this government started, it was 3.3 and dropped to 3.1. We can't find an explanation here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u83	Mr President! There is no point in arguing about who led this economic growth to take place. [Laughter — middle calls from the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u84	Madam President! Representative Rinne spoke of transport investments. This is exactly how it was, as was stated in the corrective debt working group, when transport policy had fallen short. At the time of this government, it will be invested, you can say, roundly about EUR 1 billion, and it is indeed new money to renovate the roads, build new ones and take them forward. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u85	Madam President! It's okay to be honest in this room. And yes, the fact is that surely the government must recognise that it is good that the basic bus maintenance, repair and repair debt are invested in it, but that money was taken from the development projects there and that development debt is being created all the time. The same is true of the reduction in the fees for day care, which is very positive and good, but you will finance it with an increase in property taxes. During this term of government, according to the estimates of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, you have increased property taxes by 20%, and when family poverty or economic concerns are caused by the very high cost of living, you are also causing these economic problems for pensioners, as has already been said here. It is fair to be honest, everyone wants good for Finland regardless of the party, but we disagree very much about the means.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u86	Madam President! The opposition should now read this budgetary plan under discussion, especially at the bottom of page 14, the development of government debt and the development of local government debt since the last parliamentary term, or indeed 2010 onwards. They are gloomy readings, and that was the starting point that this government started with. Now the government is halfway through. It always takes the government one year at the beginning to build the foundations, to get the legislative preparations going and to put the economic plans in order. After that, it'll take six months for those decisions to start to make a difference. Now we are at the point where they are visible, and so clearly as Mr Terho and many others, for example, listed: that is to say, a truly brisk change in Finland's economy and employment, and it is largely thanks to the current government. From now on, we should continue along the same lines,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u87	Mr President! It seems that no bureaucracy is too much for the government when it comes to the unemployed. In recent years, dozens of changes have been made to the conditions for unemployment benefit, most of which have been not only tightening but also complex. This has led not only to an increase in the number of incomeless households but above all to the fact that the system is more arbitrary and more manageable for the unemployed, which prevents any initiative and undermines confidence in this system. Well, now the government has decided on a reform that not only cuts the livelihoods of many unemployed but also adds to the complexity. The benefits of this reform are difficult to document and the government has not been able to present them, but the disadvantages are unfortunately well known.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u88	Mr President! It must be recognised that the parliamentary groups have very different views on the reform of family leave. Those groups that require more quotas for fathers and mothers, at the same time, actually want to limit the freedom of choice for families themselves to decide who is caring for the child. Mother and father are the best experts in their children and their own lives. The decision to reduce child care fees is welcome, but I believe that, if there is room for manoeuvre, it would be wise to target it to children over 3 years of age, so that, for example, free pre-school education could be gradually extended to children aged 5 years and possibly, hopefully, to children aged 4 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u89	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Karimäki and Ihalainen, and then the ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u90	Mr President! The red thread of many group speeches is that there are no structural reforms to promote employment, such as family leave reform or measures to improve small-scale entrepreneurship. But here I would like to highlight one national emergency: the health of our children and our young people, molding. It is truly regrettable that the government does not have any measures, let alone proposals to facilitate molding. Minister Orpo, you said that the construction sector is going fast now, but the municipalities are certainly not going fast, and the League of Human Rights has also taken a stand on this national emergency and called for stronger measures to support the municipalities. I'm going to bring up one important tool: THL's symptom surveys. They would be a very important addition, because mold problems are not found in time and the health of too many young people and children will be permanently ruined when the symptoms are not taken seriously and seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u91	Mr President! When Minister Orpo presented the matter here in the Chamber, he said that for growth and employment we are now in a watershed place. I agree that if these growth rates are as low as they are now in the coming years, then it will be a very big challenge to manage our employment. That is why we need export-driven growth, more knowledge-based growth in order to generate work and investment, and in this respect our concern is that the share of high-tech value added in our exports has fallen from 18% to 7% in ten years. We are getting a little sidetracked in this international, global value chain. An industrial and technological strategy for growth and employment of the new age is therefore needed. We've made one. We would like the government to take such a large-scale export-supporting, growth-friendly approach, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u92	Secretary Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u93	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Ihalainen for his constructive contribution. It is the case that we need our exports more than I am sure we will ever need. It has been the protection of our well-being, and so it will be in the future. Precisely because there are few stakes, they were now directed to the Academy of Finland through flagship projects and to Tekes, where it is precisely this high-end export, high-tech export rate, but then also new innovations, and then the 200 million investment. That is exactly the direction in which this is going to take place. The competitiveness pact will also bring this price competitiveness, which is extremely important, and hopefully this autumn's Alliance round will indeed find employment-friendly solutions. But then to the other speeches, particularly in the direction of the SDP: I think it is great that the big issue now seems to be whether growth has been achieved by the SDP in government or by the current government. Not much employment action has yet been put on the table. It is true that there was no solution to the reform of family leave, but you cannot at least put it under the carpet, for example, to reduce early childhood education fees. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u94	Secretary Vehviläinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u95	Mr President! Firstly, here Mrs Katainen asked about these incentives for municipalities that what is to be done. We have indeed set out three different sets of incentives. Perhaps the most important of these for municipalities is that, knowing that the cost of producing municipal services in municipalities is very different, an average of 2,600, at the highest of 3,600, and at the lowest of 1500, the aim is to find, together with the municipal field, the criteria that could encourage all municipalities to find a good balance and make their own services cheaper. The second entity relates to digitalisation. We have had a municipal project in progress since last year, and it has also assessed how fast and in a little longer term we can find better use of digitalisation in municipalities to save savings and to achieve better services. The third point relates to farm programmes. On the state side, we have had a farm program by the Senate that has made quite a lot of space efficiency and savings, and now, if we look at it, even though the municipality really has its own self-government of its own farms, it is probably wise that we together do this kind of public space farm program, which is able to — Mr Rinne — also to better answer this home school issue, perhaps, i.e. find better, more professional ways to build. This has been noticed by the Association of Local Authorities, many experts and researchers, and we have a certain path of what we could do together with the municipalities. But even in this Chamber I say that if the debt to repair public buildings is 1.6 billion, it is not fair to say that 1.6 billion could be found in the state budget for the spending limits period, which could suddenly help municipalities. On the other hand, municipalities must act as owners immediately. You can't wait for funding to come in a couple of years. But I believe that we and the municipalities can find a way of common good from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u96	Then again, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, for two minutes, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u97	Mr President! I understand that recognition is difficult and we are not here for praise, but I would like to inform you that last week the government invested more than EUR 400 million in education, knowledge and research. [Heckling] For the families, there was especially good news in the form of early childhood education. In other words, the quality of early childhood education will be strengthened through the development of personnel skills and personnel structure. Early childhood education fees will be reduced quite historically, which will bring more children into early childhood education, which is a good thing because early childhood education will also have many positive effects from the point of view of, for example, later learning and the prevention of exclusion. There, the children of 6,700 families reach free early childhood education, which is also very good news. Similarly, in the educational system, equality in education and training will also be strengthened. So the government nearly doubled the amount of equality grants. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u98	Now we're going to go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u132	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that Minister Tiilikainen drew attention to the fact that, during the last term of government, more really affordable rental housing was actually made, because now you are measuring out the results, and it is great that you value it because it takes between two and three years to build one of those affordable apartments. I am pleased that the fact that during the last term of the government alone EUR 150 million was invested in housing policy through individual measures is really evident. I will wait for a similar package from Minister Tiilikainen now that you have time to focus on these housing issues. Mr President! Then I will pay attention to this whole situation. I do not know where the Prime Minister went now, but it is absolutely the view here that these government objectives are heading in the right direction, but we wonder why you do not believe in them. This simply does not mean that debt is going to continue. The deficit targets will be three times as large as you have agreed together. You're going to create this program that you presented early in the week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u133	Mr President! We certainly agree with Mr Kiuru that security is an important issue. The Secretary of Defense is not present, but perhaps one of the ministers present can answer. EUR 50 million will be added annually to the capabilities of the Defence Forces. The role of the Defence Forces has changed from the training organisation, perhaps due to a slight change in preparedness, and that is why there will be additional funding, which is an excellent thing. I ask the Minister, perhaps Orpo can answer: do you have any idea of the impact of these additional contributions on the number of refresher days? It is also timely in the sense that the Arrow 17 exercise is just beginning in Niinisalo, where the international whole is gathered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u134	Mr President! If I ask the representatives of the government parties or opposition parties whether inefficient corporate subsidies should be cut, I am sure everyone will say that they should. But then when you ask what those inefficient subsidies are, there will be different answers. That is why I think it is very important that the government, with restraint, examines the effects and prepares with restraint what changes and possible cuts to business subsidies will be made. Then I shall return to the group speeches. In my opinion, in the centre's group speech, Mr Saarikko said very well that we must look forward together now, forwards, forwards and not only to the government, but also to Parliament's capacity to strengthen people's trust. I regret that when you go outside this house, the atmosphere and, you can say, the reality where you live is a little different. There the economy is growing, employment is improving, investment is being made and there is good confidence in the economy in people, but when you come in here and listen to the opposition's speeches, there is too much old nonsense that everything is going badly and is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u135	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for its efforts to promote employment and, in particular, the Minister for Employment, Lindström, for its decisive measures to facilitate the position of people in difficult employment situations. Last year, Lex Lindström was decreed here in Parliament to retire those over 60 who have been long-term unemployed for a single period of at least 5 years. This pension subsidy, which will now enter into force at the beginning of June, is a moral gesture towards these people who have had very poor employment opportunities. In the future, the Government and Minister of Labour, Lindström, will ensure fair rules of play for people working on zero-hour contracts by means of legal measures. As I understand it, there are going to be articles in the law on, among other things, sick pay and the establishment of working time, which is important for a large number of employees working on zero-hour contracts. Mr President! Minister Lindström's activities have been very encouraging
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u136	Mr President! There has been a little discussion here about who is to blame for the small positive momentum in the economy. We are all extremely pleased about this, but it is certainly clear here in the capital region that the investments in the railways that have been decided by previous governments have created precisely the housing base we have been talking about. So that's where the amount comes from. But what about out there outside the capital region? We have a bioeconomy programme by the government as a key project: there are three different projects in North Karelia waiting for funding, this funding has not come. The unemployment rate in North Karelia is over 18. Is this not the case that the strengths of the provinces must be used when we are looking for them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u137	Mr President! It is quite right to invest in the bioeconomy. I am surprised by this view of the demars that every thing this government has done is in some way due to the last parliamentary term. We know the merits. Don't go back to them. Everyone knows that. Look at the bioeconomy. For Mrs Myller, the Lieksa project is progressing, and I think it is well known, because it was also a big story in the big county paper. But in any case, on the bioeconomy side, remember, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not just about the forestry industry. It is a matter of huge new innovations, which, among other things, replace plastic. New composite material is being made, it is an absolutely necessary addition to our forest machine production. We can get more wood moving, more work. And you're just constantly complaining that it went wrong again. Finally, as an example, Mr President, when the land-use and construction law was reformed in this country, this government has done so, bureaucracy has been dismantled, your message has always been that it is wrong, it is wrong, the environment is suffering and everything. There's always reasons that can't be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u138	Mr President! For the management of employment: Although it now seems that, and it is a fact that the government is gradually starting to achieve this target of 72% employment, it is beginning to make little progress, yet we still have a terrible long-term unemployment. I was annoyed that I did not see the whole amount of subsidised employment in this public finance survey programme. There is a lack of such an important part as the support employment funds needed to deal with long-term unemployment. That is precisely the best way to put an end to this long-term unemployment and to deal with it in such a way that they can maintain their skills and their working capacity in such a way that they can find a new job and have access to new jobs. That's why it would have been important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u139	Mr President! Of course, it is honest to say that government action is partly contributing to this positive economic development. A few things from here that come up. First of all, concern about the Ministry of Justice's field of activity, which has 49 million cuts. It seems very hard, given that, at the same time, the government itself is making proposals that increase the tasks and resource needs of different court levels. I'm sure this will make a lot of people wonder. At the same time, the government calculates the car tax in such a way that it is about EUR 100 to 200 per car, which it is very difficult for a citizen to even notice when buying a car. When you put these quite rightly against each other, what is this logic here? It's like putting a few tens in a car, but then cutting legal security and legal basis. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u140	Mr President! I am able to join myself in one of the annoyances expressed about the opposition and it is a pity that no further clarification was made on the issue of the reform of family leave. But surely this work will continue, because there is a good consensus for it, and even as a party, the Coalition Party has presented its own ambitious model for the reform of family leave. We will continue to promote this. Employment and economic growth have rightly and rightly been at the heart of this debate and of the budgetary plan. That's right. But in order to create sustainable growth, I would also like to express my thanks to the Government for taking account of other pillars of sustainable development. It is really great that, despite the tight economic cycle, the government was able to invest in the future from an environmental point of view as well. A small but necessary increase in development cooperation amounted to 25 million for climate and energy measures. And then securing the continuation of Metso funding, 5 million — this was a very fine environmentally sound decision. Thank the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u141	Mr President! Access to skilled labour has now been raised here, and that is one of the key issues, if we are to raise the employment rate, to improve the economy. In my opinion, adult education should also be invested — and this has been cut, unfortunately — in conversion training, because if we want to have a skilled workforce reasonably quickly, these ways of training are also very important in this palette. Yes, I must say that I am very disappointed that the universities of applied sciences were forgotten in the mid-term debate. Among other things, polytechnics are very important in these areas. I hope, and I ask, that we can return to this issue in later budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u142	Mr President! I don't know if the government's been holding their hands up or straight. You can say that there's not a lot of wool left over from this row. The efforts to achieve employment and growth have remained very thin, and one might say that this management of employment is monolithic. The protection against dismissal has been weakened, the recruitment of work has been tightened, the monthly free work sample has been created, interviews with the unemployed every three months, unemployment benefit has been cut by 100 days and the obligation to take back has been weakened, and now the news is telling you that the latest is coming from you, an active model: 12 jobs have to be applied for in three months or lost, the card hits 60 days. In other words, this kind of squatting of the unemployed cannot be tolerated, and could indeed expect and expect the right actions and actions to be taken in favour of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u143	Mr President! Yes, the opposition does not seem to have a vision of which direction Finland should be taken. You bring up individual actions, they do not translate the whole direction of Finland, all the structural measures that have now been mobilised. What did they hit last season? It was only during the last period of the government's mid-term debate that there was a need for some major reforms and structural reforms. There were 300 million cuts, the same amount of tax evasion. In two years, the central government has been able to reverse the direction of the Finnish economy so that EUR 300 million is invested in the mid-term debate. Children from nearly 7,000 families get free day care. Many, many investments. And to the previous speaker, one comment: EUR 25 million for tourism in Lapland, for example, that 40% of tourism has started to grow, as one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u144	Mr President! First of all, there is the great disapproval that ministers are leaving when the debate on the report is under way. But, of course, if bedtime stories are spoken, then I won't be surprised. I am concerned about both the money of individuals and the economy of the state, because I am sitting in the Committee on Finance. That's my job in this house. Minister Orpo, can you tell the other ministers that the credit information will go away from people whenever the bailiff takes action? That's the Minister. Lindström’s answer just now was pure nonsense, or it was a modified truth. I think he should find out how things are going. But can you, Minister Orpo, tell us now that this bankruptcy is coming, which will facilitate the position of people, whether it is a personal bankruptcy or a bankruptcy of a natural person? They are two completely different things. They have a completely different effect on people's survival from that bankruptcy. And in addition to the relief of this, that when an unemployed person becomes employed, if he is in voud’s inheritance, he will receive six months of grace, his debts will be transferred.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u145	Mr President! Despite the positive economic news, the main challenges facing public finances and the labour market have not been overcome by the normalisation of the cyclical situation. There are risks that the policy measures in the right direction and need to be taken by the government will be too slow or subdued. That is why decisive action must be continued and a firm look kept in the future. As a means of improving public finances, tax experts and the European Commission have repeatedly recommended shifting taxation from labour taxation towards taxation of consumption. How agile does the government intend to address the structural development needs of taxation during the remaining parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u146	Mr President! The economic turn is a fact, and that is what we basically agree on here. What really matters now is to look ahead and do everything possible and more so that this turn of events can be further strengthened. In this respect, the autumn labour market solution and then the government's own budget debate will be the next threshold for the near future, when all we have to do is make good decisions. The employment target of 72% is entirely possible and is conditional on what the Prime Minister and Mr Ihalainen referred to in his previous speech — it seems that the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister share a common voice. This is a maturity test from now on. As a parliament, we should not go into the election mode, but we should be able to continue along the path of cooperation. Nor should government parties go into election mode, but really continue on the road to doing things and be very cooperative and also accept new ideas on how to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u147	Mr President! In my speech, I will also try to focus on the issues and, in fact, on the core points raised by the Prime Minister and representative Ihalainen, namely the Finnish added value and related research and development. It is a fact that it has come down, and it is great that the government is doing something about it now, so that we stay with the rest of the world and the other OECD countries. But then, Mr Hoskonen, the very essence of my whole speech is that when you talk about the bioeconomy, you talk about the local economy. This is not a sustainable business strategy for Finland. There's a low added value. So we're going back to this conversation that I started with. This is the problem in Finland. We will not achieve the economic growth of more than 2% if we do not include the circular economy in our diverse industrial strategy, the things by which Finland will:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u148	Mr President! It is good to continue with the speech of the previous representative. What exactly is the cause of these jobs? It is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises. And where Finland has the potential, the wood sector is one in the new sectors of the bioeconomy, in what is inside it as a whole. But what has been a major obstacle to growth has been that, with regard to these business subsidies, which are being re-examined, it should be stressed that aid should also be given to small and medium-sized enterprises and not only to the so-called big players, but also to those who are developing new technologies. These jobs are now precisely the kind of jobs that will be created in the whole country. There are many bio-factory projects all over Finland, and Lapland also makes a big contribution to Finland’s employment in tourism, which is also the focus of this mid-term debate. The position of self-employed is now also being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u149	Mr President! It is good that there is something good in the government: at least one minister who is here to respond to this debate. Perhaps that is why, Minister Orpo: no response has yet been received from you regarding these Savonlinna compensations in relation to the government, even though they have been repeated on several occasions today. Maybe now we'll get an answer when there's no more contestants who'll tell us about it. In Eastern Savo on 21 April 2016, i.e. a little over a year ago, representatives of the government parties Hanna Kosonen and Kaj Turunen said that the only option is to maintain OKL in Savonlinna. Well, we know it didn't. After that, Turunen himself promised to make sure that compensations would come. After that Sipilä promised that he would, and Sipilä said that this could still be the best thing for Savonlinna in the future. Now the disappointed savonlinna people heard their representatives here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u150	Mr President! I too have a personal comment to make at the beginning: thank you, Mr Orvo, for having managed this long afternoon. Investments in the transport infrastructure during the last government period have made it possible to build a great deal in my own hometown, where a lot of high-rise buildings have risen along the metro line. Unfortunately, however, this proposal to reform the government's housing allowance will water down a lot of that construction, because smaller housing is being built there, and when you plan to have the housing allowance tied to the amount of rent per square metre, the regions will split up. Low-income people cannot afford to take these smaller apartments from it along good transport connections. Now I would ask you to reconsider this reform of housing allowance in the government, because when experts say that regions are going to separate, it is not such a good development,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u151	I now give the following answers to the representatives of Kankaanniemi, Wall and Ihalainen, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u152	Mr. Speaker! Support employment is necessary and good in certain circumstances, but it is the private sector that is now creating jobs. This is even more important because of the lasting improvement in the economy and employment. These cuts in corporate subsidies have been hoped for here. I would now like to ask the Social Democrats for just a few examples of where you want business subsidies to be cut. We too want to cut certain subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u157	Mr President! Mr Nylund referred earlier to the employment and entrepreneurship paper in paragraph 12 of the Swedish Parliamentary Group, which we handed over to the Prime Minister a couple of weeks ago. Unfortunately, this paper is not out of use, which is why all the presentations are still valid, freely copyable. I will only mention one of these, and this is a very important issue, namely youth unemployment. How does the government sound about an idea where a young person under 30 could earn 500 euros a month without losing any other benefits or benefits? At the same time, the employer would pay a lower employer's contribution when hiring such a young person. This is a free game, Minister of Finance, if you wish to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u158	And the reply, Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u159	Mr President! As a party, we have carefully prepared the objectives of economic policy growth and the new future, including, by the way, the development of business subsidies. But these will come in a little while. I would have come back to these estimates of the kiky agreement. It is understandable that it involves a lot of pain for employees and problematic solutions, but we must remember a few things. Firstly, thanks to the Kiki agreement, price competitiveness was captured in relation to Sweden, in relation to Germany. The Kiki agreement rejected the coercive package and the legal introduction of local settlements and also the threat of further cuts. It is good to remember such things. And I think that now that we no longer have this joint table in the autumn, which may be called the kiky table, many people may find it regrettable that we no longer have the ability to coordinate economic and labour market policies as we have had in the past. And that is why the autumn situation will be very challenging, managing labour market solutions in such a way that they support growth and employment. But this is all I wanted to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u160	Then Minister Orpo, five minutes, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u161	Mr President! A lot of good questions. If I start with them. Östman's gone. I promise to check how many times he said "not enough" in different forms. But then more seriously. As far as Savonlinna is concerned, we would like to continue the preparations, but we will make the first amending budget in May, and it is recorded in the debate that concrete decisions will then be taken on this Savonlinna, what we can do in this situation. Similarly, the following row is covered by the positive structural change entry. In other words, when there is a growing supply of jobs mainly on the west coast, work is being done on how we can respond as well as possible to the questions of access to skilled labour, for example, to this need for the workforce of companies, and it is also intended to be resolved in that first amending budget. Congressman Kiuru asked about the number of refresher exercises. This money can at least now guarantee the increased level of refresher exercises that have now been achieved during this reign. But I'm sure that when this extra 50 million capacity comes to the Ministry of Defence, they'll think very carefully about how it's going to be built, where it's going to be used in the best way, and I'm sure there are plans for that. With regard to the financing of universities of applied sciences, I would draw attention to the capitalisation of 80 million for vocational education and training as a whole. At least I feel that this package of capitalization supports and helps there as well. But then, Mr President, I am thinking about this whole thing. Although there are many individual questions on the table, what has been done in the Government Programme, in the autumn and now, they actually include a very large structural reform of the whole of our work supply and reception. The first element is taxes, subsidies, payments. Taxes on labour have been significantly reduced, with a reduction of EUR 1 billion in taxes on labour. From there, 450 million to the reduction in labour income, which is targeted at the lowest wage incomes and contributes to the acceptance of work. In the package of subsidies, taxes, fees, this reduction in early childhood education fees is still a very important step. The housing allowance system will be reformed in a more encouraging direction and the position of over-indebtedness will be facilitated. I cannot respond to all these details now, Mr Tolppanen, but the best possible model is being sought to improve rather than weaken the position of the person in debt. In this regard, among other things, researcher Juho Saari has pointed out that the biggest incentive trap at the moment is actually over-indebtedness. We have hundreds of thousands of people who are in a cycle of enforcement or in debt, and it is not profitable to accept work. Another entity is access to trained labour. This reform of vocational education and training, which is now in Parliament, will then be extremely important. It does not help here and now, but it is a very important whole for companies to have a workforce in the future, for the needs of working life and for young people. We are promoting mobility and then we have more employment projects for young people in this debate. So this second entity, access to trained labour and care for skills, is part of the big entity. The third is the reform of employment services and the active model, i.e. the three-monthly meetings of the unemployed. Now a lot more money is being put into it, that they are indeed meetings, not telephone calls, meetings where the long-term unemployed or the new unemployed are personally met. With him, things are going through, opportunities are being offered and job opportunities are being discussed. Furthermore, these changes in labour law — which are not good for everyone — are undoubtedly, according to researchers and experts, employment-enhancing — which, among other things, reduce the threshold for recruitment by extending probation periods, facilitating the conclusion of fixed-term employment relationships and reducing readmission obligations. Here's some of what I collected. Four big entities with lots of more elements. This is a huge structural reform, really, what we are doing. That when you say that nothing is enough, I hope that you will then understand the whole, not the individual actions, but the whole. This line is very broad: we want to increase growth, give companies access to skilled labour, respond to the needs of people who need training so that they can find the right job for themselves. I think this is a very logical policy. But then we need competitiveness. Once again, Mr Ihalainen spoke wisely, that is to say, the competitiveness pact itself was of great value, because it was possible to work together because the options you described were certainly not particularly nice from there. I don't think anyone wanted to have forced laws or those extra cuts. Now we have been able to do so so that the fiscal stance that we have is credible. That is sufficient in view of this economic situation and we do not need to make further cuts. But it requires determined efforts to further improve economic growth and employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u162	All right, now we're going to the list of speakers. Congressman Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u163	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. I have no need to respond, but I would like to make a brief comment on the debate on which, first of all, you could ask as Mr Juncker, or I would refer to his statement that we are all in the same galaxy in these matters — so far away from the situation where Finland is. Finland now has a strategic government programme for the first time. Together with the Competitiveness Pact, it creates stability in this situation, in many ways predictability. And now the importance of this mid-term debate, especially in this situation, is that it guarantees that this action, which the government has, will continue throughout the parliamentary term, and the government will work throughout the parliamentary term. Competitiveness pact: When Parliament’s banking council visited Africa, the first question there was from the board of the national central bank that it was possible to conclude a competitiveness agreement. They were very interested. In Canada it is interesting, in the world it has attracted a lot of attention. It is very important, improving our price competitiveness. We have three challenges in terms of competitiveness: not only in terms of price competitiveness, but also in terms of productivity, we have major challenges and we have also had a problem with the exchange relationship. When I said that we were all in the same galaxy, I pointed out that if the obsolescence had continued, which has been going on for a long time in Finland — the employment rate is very low, the debt is constantly increasing — it would have led the Finnish economy to the brink. That is why the turn has been very necessary and good. As far as the Greens are concerned, and in general I referred to the need to reduce debt to me in such a way that our demographic development is such that more than 50,000 children will be born, and the annual debt per child will be more than EUR 100,000, which means that we will put such a debt in the maternity package as it were, and that is far too much. Finland stands in the way of growth. The growth figures of the Minister of Finance start from their way of making statistics, perhaps on the situation in the last few months of last year, but all other forecasts are better: The Bank of Finland predicts 1.6 per cent, and now the last forecast, Ilmarinen, is 2.2. I myself am going to leave it, and I believe that if there are no negative messages from the world, Finland will well be able to achieve a 2% increase, above that, and it can take our employment rate to 72% if there is really no obstacle to access to labour. To the extent that as big a party as the SDP is, so can not really be found... For example, its main messages: the government should resign, and this is just a slump of what is being done. It is not enough, it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, for an opposition policy of such a large party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u166	Mr President! Again, it is time to look at the budgetary plan for the coming years. It is inevitable that public expenditure will be adjusted to moderate long-term economic growth forecasts. Due to the age structure of our population, for example, we need to be patient with public expenditure. It should also be borne in mind that the actions relating to the spending limits are in line with the Government Programme. Not in this case, however it happens, but in contrast to the previous government, where the current opposition was very widely represented, the intention is to move towards the goal set by solutions based on government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u171	Mr President! This debate is very interesting, and I must admit that it is sometimes even shocking to see here the very optimism of the government parties as to how horribly well everything is now. Everything's fine, and everything's been done decently and stuff. But when you look at the reality of it, the good ones in themselves, the emerging signs of growth are still quite challenging. This is admitted by all economists, all of them, but in this Chamber, perhaps a little less of the number of problems we still have, unfortunately, overall. Minister Orpo insisted that we now look at the overall line, the overall picture, and when we talk about the budgetary plan — and we quite rightly urge that we look at the overall picture — is there no concern here, for goodness sake, that, according to these government's own plans, the government will fall short of its own objectives, both in terms of employment and in terms of deficit? I think that this is exactly what Minister Orpok was after, and what is happening now. It is admitted that you will be leaving the deficit target in a significant way, including the employment targets, and then just say, 'Well, hey, we're moving forward'. This cannot be the case at all. Here in the earlier debat... If there were a minister present, perhaps he might answer that question for a third time. It is quite remarkable, by comparison with the government programme’s deficit objective and these figures in the budgetary plan, that there is a threefold difference between the deficit and the deficit — threefold. So the government, as it were in these chapters, has already given up on these, and yet Prime Minister Sipilä says that the objectives are being met. Well, the objectives are kept, but the difference is that at the same time we know that the targets are not being achieved. What we have said many times today is that it was a big disappointment in the sense that there was talk of big and we know that it is the last moment, but the government has actually raised its hands, given up this debt target. This is because the government has not been able to take decisions that genuinely support employment. That is what this has been all about. Before the argument, there was talk of major structural reforms. There was no reform of family leave, there was no major restructuring. There was talk of significant employment measures. There were no significant employment measures. To ensure that no one is deliberately misunderstood next, we, as Social Democrats, are also in favour of a reduction in day care fees, that is a positive thing. But at the same time that Mr Elomaa, for example, has just given a great deal of justification for the cuts in housing allowance, this is a very negative thing. I read the comments immediately after the decision. There quite a few experts said that does anyone seriously imagine that this will lower the cost of living? This is not going to happen. This is actually a cut into the purse of all low-income tenants. And I do not believe that the Finns of Peru before the elections were sorely pounding about these cuts; on the contrary, they were opposed to this kind of policy that they are now doing. In my opinion, it is quite right to ask for the price of housing. In addition to the fact that the housing allowance cutter comes, which therefore cuts income, not rents, the government has announced that it will raise property tax for the third time since the autumn — for the third time. And what effect does the increase in property tax have on the price of living, so we all know that it is negative, that is, housing costs are once again rising. President! To this end — we have five minutes — I would like to say the same thing once again. I would now urge the representatives of the government parties to go and study these great achievements, which you now advertise loudly, how much money is being invested in education or where. It's cold in here. It is said that in Tekes additional contributions — well, 70 million yes, before that, away from 130. Vocational education reform — yes, 15 million more, but 200 million away before that. Quality money for basic education — yes, 15 million more, but 40 million away before that. These lists tell us that we are now doing what the Coalition Party advertised, that there is no way forward by cancelling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u172	Mr President! I must say that this government cannot advertise, like a bicycle, that 'only a pack is missing'. This government does have...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u179	Värderade Talman! Many signs suggest that the economic direction has turned towards a better one. That's a good thing. But the rise is still very weak. This year GDP is projected to increase by 1.2%. It is far from the government's objectives and far from the level required to reach the employment rate of 72%. What, then, is our feeble growth? It consists mainly of domestic consumption and, in particular, construction. Helsinki and other growth centres are building, and the rest of the country is drying up. Unfortunately, exports do not yet take place, and it is very narrow. No, this is not yet the ingredients of stable growth, structurally stable growth. Unemployment has fallen by 14,000 since last year. It's 14,000 people to whom today looks bright as yesterday. At the same time, however, the Commission estimates that structural unemployment represents 216,000. The difference between the number of seasonally adjusted unemployed, 235,000, is very small: 19,000 pieces. They may be successful in getting them to work, but structural measures are needed to tackle structural unemployment, and we have not yet found those structural measures in the government's proposals. Not that we don't have good embryos. There is a lot positive about the activation model, such as making it possible for the unemployed to enter into a secondary business. It is a good thing that bankruptcy legislation is being reformed and we are glad that the government no longer defends the increase in the fees for day-care centres, but has moved on to praise the help of lowering payments. This is how times change. But these measures do not address structural unemployment. However, the government knows well what action it would require. It would require the reform of parental leave, which would facilitate the position of women in the labour market,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u182	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissilä was asking whether we were in the same galaxy, of course, referring to government parties and opposition parties. It's a bit of a Star Wars vibe, you know, everyone shoots in there and here and see where they hit you. It may be that sometimes you hit and sometimes you miss. However, it is not in line with the aims of Parliament that we are arguing about who has done what at any time, because there is certainly plenty to do. The most interesting thing is to look to the future, and in this respect Mrs Myllykoski's speech was excellent. The point of view was precisely how to strengthen our economy, create production, employment and thus improve Finland's chances of survival. In particular, I am also pleased that Mrs Myllykoski has spoken with regard to the Post. As such, it has nothing to do with this, but it is good to have the courage to look at the situation of Finnish Post Ltd in such a way that everything can be done there in order to safeguard Post's operations. I have even heard speeches in this Chamber from a member of the Board of Directors of Post, although not from Mr Guzenina, who sits next to Mrs Myllykoski, which have been very much in the opposite direction, almost like those who drive down Post. And in this sense, it does not even have to be socialist when you want to defend the fact that in Finland Posti's operations are protected under all circumstances. In this case, it also seeks new tasks which, as a rule, the Posti staff themselves have wanted to join. This is the right perspective, and I like it. However, I would also like to stress that I am the chairman of the Board of Directors of Post, and in this respect this comment will now come in this sense, too, because I have seen what problems Post is facing in all the changing circumstances and how things can be taken forward. But very refreshing, very fine speech, Mrs Myllykoski. Thank you for that. Indeed, the government's aim is to reform Finland, to put it in order, and in this regard, although there is much talk of this so-called mid-term dispute whether it has been under dim circumstances or under light conditions, yet the economic turn is taking place, and we must certainly strengthen its economic transition and its progress. The labour market organisations still have a huge responsibility. The Competitiveness Pact has helped us, and it has been very clearly reflected in the strengthening of business and the belief that investment in Finland is worthwhile. This has been reflected particularly in the shipbuilding industry, the automotive industry and certainly in our bioeconomy. They are big issues for us, including the government's top projects in their own way, and we must invest in them, whether it is the current Äänekoski or the future Kuopio bioproject, i.e. the Finnpulp plant or, for example, what Mr Hoskonen referred to earlier and what was said, the Lieksa plant and the project. These are all what Finland needs. Each province, especially in forest regions, has access to these bio-projects, whether in production form or by name. And it is worth investing in, because it creates exactly the kind of work that is needed today. It creates work for young people, it creates work for the transport industry, it creates real work for loggers and does what young people today need in rural areas. Not everything is purely the ict that you, for example, represent to a very great extent today's transport machines. It is precisely that ordinary work that is needed, and in this respect, Finland has the opportunity to move forward when we believe in ourselves. In this respect, the objectives of the government's mid-term review, which are precisely related to security, employment, care and reform, are all in the right direction. When Mr Viitanen said, among other things, that the government first cuts, then gives back a little: well, in a certain way, it has happened, it must be admitted, it is true, but it is because of the economic situation, and then there is enough money to give back the leash as economic growth moves forward. In this respect, the objectives of reaching its 72 or even higher employment rates, hopefully, are shared by Parliament and not just by the government. And it is to be hoped that the opposition, in so far as it is now politically possible, will also support those objectives, because in the final analysis it will determine how Finland's economy and future will evolve during this decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u183	Mr. Speaker! The Government term is in the middle, and the results of the Government’s work are beginning to be strongly visible. Three parties formed this government, and it is very good that there are no more parties in the government. In the previous government, there were six parties at its beginnings and no reform went forward when one of the six always opposed and everyone had the right to veto decisions. Such cooperation has no success for the country, and it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u189	Its wider debate will not start now, but let us give Mr Kiuru a response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u190	Mr President! In this, the representative was rather critical of the option of the Social Democrats. I don't take it personally. I feel like this is a training mission. The more we can present our own options here in the Chamber, the better it will be. First of all, with regard to the municipal economy, in the social democratic option that I have here, by the way...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u193	Looks like there's a bigger need for a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u194	Mr President! When the Social Democrats say that they would like to leave the municipalities more room for manoeuvre — well, what would that be? It's practically new debt. In this respect, I would like to remind you that neither the Bank of Finland nor Sitra can be robbed many times by you either, and where does that money come from? Through the government, we want to invest in creating new employment, new production, creating a business base, opening up opportunities for the export industry, and thus creating natural economic room for manoeuvre. Of course, through certain types of difficulties in public finances, municipalities have made savings decisions and their own solutions, and this has also led to progress. If it had not been for this general economic situation, then surely that expenditure would have continued as before. I have been in municipal politics for over 40 years now as a delegate and I can say that the money has never been enough. Everything that's come has gone, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u195	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi must have hit the Achilles' heel now that the demos' feedback has been reasonably pointed. I could say to Mr Kiuru that, when the local government finances have indeed gone downhill in the last period, in 2016 the local government finances were around 450 million, i.e. the municipalities were not in debt anymore and the municipalities' finances were on solid ground. I know there's plans. There's paper baskets full of them if you want to look. In your budget option, Sitra was first robbed and then the Bank of Finland. The only thing that could produce results on that basis, which would be possible, is the robbery of the Kalevalian Sampo, which could probably talk for the rest of his life, that we have a machine like that, that now comes money to drink. But I would like to see so much reality in this debate that when we start talking about the municipal economy, for example, the municipalities are the operator that the services provide for people, and the maintenance of the economy is a genuine work and not a demonstration of plans that have no basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u196	Mr President! Espoo and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area applied for a separate solution for the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in the case of social wares. We had the enormous concern about how the finances of the municipalities in the capital region will be realised after the social welfare reform, because in the model that the government is now taking forward, here in the capital region, where health services, for example, have been very well managed in some places, for us, after the part of the money taken from the municipalities, will pose very big challenges, for example in the field of education services. Now that we have an economist here in the Chamber, Mr Vartiainen, I would ask that he speak sense here, too, that there should be a lot of things that need to be checked, because the social reform, of course, must be carried forward. It's a big structural reform, and that's what everyone's been waiting for, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u197	Mr President! It is clear that this social reform is not the perfect model; it must be acknowledged. I'm sure there'll be some run-ins. But I myself am confident that this Finnish system will correct them. If we wait for the perfect system, we will certainly have the world’s pin to wait for it. That is why we must move forward here too. Now that we are listening to the Socialist speeches about how they have now done this and how they have put the economy in order, I do not like looking back, but it has only been two years since that government ended, when you were in government for four years. When you look at what was done then, at least I myself would give this government a little more time to show you what the results are. Let us then compare the results instead of starting to blame everything. I have such a picture, as the opposition in particular listens that if you were at the helm now, this is not necessarily the way this economy would have turned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u198	I will give the floor to Mr Kiuru and Mr Myllykoski and Mr Kankaanniemi, who initiated the debate, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u199	Mr President! In this respect, I think that Mr Salmon has made a constructive speech that we should give the government time. We specifically want to give time for you to take up the measures and objectives that you have in the mid-term review which is being carried out in this Chamber today. This is exactly what we think. And although I made quite a speech today also to the Prime Minister about how he reacted during the last term of government when he was in the middle of the regime at the time, he did not behave this way, but he demanded the resignation of the Prime Minister at the time. There is a big difference in that regard, and in that sense I think it is important to note that we hope that you will achieve these objectives that you have. Now we must remember that none of these objectives will be achieved. Then Sipilä himself said that living as a debt will continue: you will continue to live as an eating debt, and the goal of deleveraging was moved forward," Sipilä said last season. And now we are in a situation where this is what is going to come to fruition. In that regard, I am now encouraging the government to implement:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u200	Mr President! I have to answer Mrs Lohe when she was talking about the war and I am sure that there will be problems: that will certainly be the case. At this point I have to say that the casting defect is such that when you have made a good foundation and it has a mold, then you have to run into some small error that can then be corrected. But now I have to say that this model of social services has already been made incorrectly. We can already see that this can't work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u201	Now there was such pressure in the direction of representative salmon that it would probably be reasonable to give him a reply, and then a reply in the direction of representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u202	Mr President! It is clear that there is a difference of opinion in this regard. However, I believe that, although this is not a perfect model, it will be able to do so in the provinces when we can build it. It is important that we move forward, that this timetable should be maintained, that there should be no chaos in the provinces and municipalities there. But I will come back to what this representative has to say. Kiuru said what Sipilä demanded last season. After all, even Rinne insisted that after Sipilä had said the result or out, she should now resign. But here's the big difference. We're comparing these situations. Your goal during the last term of government was to increase the employment rate. And what happened? There were 100,000 more unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u203	Mr President! In the last parliamentary term — perhaps it should no longer be remembered — the state was in debt of EUR 25 billion, the municipalities 8 billion, the state's treasury was taken out of 8 billion, and the state's assets were sold for more than 3 billion. In other words, more than 35 billion weakened public finances. Now the situation has changed dramatically. The cash register can no longer be eaten when you ate it, the property has not been sold much, the central government debt grew by 2.5 billion per year from 15 to 16 and the debt of municipalities grew by 0.7 billion. So the pace is halved by what was in your period. Last season, local government finances were in poor condition: negotiations, redundancies, weakening of old-age homes,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u204	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u205	Mr President! In the Government's energy and climate strategy, Finland has decided to abandon the use of coal and halve the use of imported oil and increase the share of renewable energy to more than 50%. These are the right decisions, and with these measures Finland fulfils its commitment to the Paris climate agreement. Of course, it is more than just a matter of fulfilling the agreement. To this end, the Government will increase the amount of EUR 25 million between 2018 and 2021. This decided additional funding will promote low-emission transport, such as electricity and gas cars, renewable energy production, wood construction and experiments to promote the objectives of the strategy. In addition, pilot activities prioritise pilot projects related to circular economy, artificial intelligence and employment. This is what we have heard today. I also welcome the fact that the Government will strengthen the protection of forest biodiversity by increasing the annual contribution of EUR 5 million to the implementation of the Metso programme. Metso focuses above all on the protection of old forests and aims to contribute to halt the decline of forest habitats and forest species and to stabilise the favourable development of biodiversity by 2025. It is very good that understanding of this programme has been found. In my opinion, there should also have been understanding of the support for the production of forest chips and the tax level of peat. Bite and bark were not now included in the support for forest chips. Both should be given equal fuel with forest chips and peat in the future. Support for foreign applications should also be reduced to a minimum, so that we would serve Finnish applicants, jobs and entrepreneurs. According to the Government's report, EUR 90 million has been proposed to be transferred to the Agricultural Development Fund in 2016-2018 as the Government's key project funding, of which EUR 49 million has been presented in 2018. National agricultural start-up and investment grants are financed entirely by the Development Fund. The co-financed grants will be financed as part of the Rural Development Programme for Mainland Finland from the budget allocation. The development of the agricultural structure will also be affected by the provision of interest-rate subsidies for rural economic activities and state guarantees from the Development Fund for the budget allocation. I believe that these measures are in the right direction. Mr President! I do not think it is bad for the government to invest in security and justice. According to the report, the service level of the core functions of internal security operators is being maintained. However, maintaining existing internal security structures will not be possible without clear additional resources and increased funding. The Government will increase security by EUR 98 million in 2018. According to the report, the Government will adopt an operating model for the production and processing of the Government’s common security situation picture. The Government will strengthen the ability to identify and analyse hybrid threats. The Government is implementing legislative projects to prepare for hybrid threats, terrorism, extremism and organised crime. The Government will continue to implement the asylum policy action programme. These are precisely the measures that will improve security after the decisions of the previous government. In fact, it was especially wonderful when I listened to the group speeches of the parties that only the Christians mentioned security in the opposition. Apparently, the other opposition parties are not so interested in security. At least your voters are interested. After the funding mentioned above, it is pointless for taxpayers to try to justify the abolition of police stations such as Ilomants or Outokumpu. I also think that Customs should be given the right ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, as Customs is, to a large extent, a security-promoting organisation. I think it is a very good thing that the report on basic infrastructure management in 2018 allocates EUR 1.4 billion of funding, of which approximately EUR 300 million is key project funding to reduce repair debt. In the final years of the spending limits period, approximately EUR 1 billion per year will be allocated to basic bus maintenance. The framework includes an amount of EUR 723 million allocated to halt the growth of the correction debt between 2018 and 2021. In addition, EUR 10 million has been allocated to private road grants for the years 18 to 20. These are the right and expected targets and make it possible to continue living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u206	Mr President! The outlook has improved, growth is accelerating above trend growth, which means that we are well on the rise. And when economic growth exceeds trend growth, then it is time to strengthen public finances. Note all of you, including in this Chamber, who have appealed to Lord Keynes in recent years and have given the government recommendations on a more stimulating, stimulating fiscal stance, let us all note together that it is time for spending cuts to strengthen public finances. If, therefore, the recent cyclical news at all serves as a justification for any change in fiscal policy, it is rather a tightening trend. This is an important change in the debate that we should have. At the same time, however, we must remember that this improvement in the economic climate, or normalisation of growth, is not yet putting our public finances on a sound footing. It is very important to understand the difference between cyclical recovery and trend growth: Recovery means an increase in the utilisation of resources to the normal level and may include even a rapid growth spurt. However, that slump cannot continue when the resource utilisation rate is normal. This will move on to a trend growth, which will inevitably be rather bludgeoning and rather slow in the light of current forecasts. This cyclical recovery could be compared to the recovery from the flu and the underlying trend growth. When a person recovers from the flu, it does not mean that his or her basic condition has yet to improve. And yet this basic condition, that trend growth and trendy employment rate, determine the long-term sustainability of public finances. It is therefore quite secondary to the sustainability of public finances, i.e. almost irrelevant, whether the economy will grow by 1 % or 2 % this year, because in any event, these longer-term growth forecasts will be 1.5 % and this budgetary planning will have to be hung on. Therefore, while there is no reason to be gloomy, it is also damaging and the public's betrayal to call for such a long-term increase that there is no longer a need to strengthen public finances through an increase in the employment rate. We are therefore still on an explosive path towards debt in the long term, as is evident from the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. We need security margins, and not even the tightness of public finances is enough. We may be faced with a new international recession or even with a tightening of the military situation, and then it will be quite unacceptable if we already have a significant structural deficit at the outset. And on one point, the chairman of the Left Alliance, Li Andersson, was quite right in today's debate: if fighters are bought, they are bought with the right money, with the right debt, the cost of which does not go anywhere. I would like to see this argument followed by all the representatives. Even the necessary expenditure must be brought into the spending limits, and that is why the spending limits exist. There is no Class A expenditure past the spending limits and Class B expenditure within the spending limits. Respect the budgetary framework. Of course, forecasting growth is uncertain, but even if we were to be pleasantly surprised, it would then only be based on higher productivity growth, because we know in any case that labour input growth is low, and that high productivity growth is of little use to public finances. Why? Well, because it also increases the cost of public finances. Clearly, not everyone has understood this. But when productivity increases, wages rise — it is the iron mechanism of the market economy — and there is nothing bad about it, they should. But the public sector's wages will also rise. After all, there are two thirds of the cost of labour for municipalities and the state and, as is well known in this Chamber, there will also be an increase in current transfers, because we do not accept that current transfers should continue to fall behind real wages. Therefore, whatever the growth, we must increase the employment rate if we want our public finances to be in order, and that is why this government and the next government are still forced to continue along the path of labour market reforms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u207	Mr President! A number of decisions were taken in the government’s mid-term debate to benefit ordinary citizens. The most important and essential savings decisions have already been made in the past, and it is particularly important for the sustainability of public finances that employment growth should now be properly stimulated. This growth is supported, among other things, by the substantial income tax reductions already made in the past. One of the priorities of the mid-term review was the management of employment, which is now heavily invested in. Improvements are also made to the rules on working life. For example, with regard to zero-hour contracts, which are not taken into account in current legislation, we finally have clear rules of play based on the law under the leadership of Minister of Labour Lindström. The objective of drafting legislation has been set that zero-hour contracts should be concluded only in those areas where zero-hour contracts are genuinely necessary. Among other things, the Government decided to facilitate the recruitment of the first employee, to reduce the sickness burden for entrepreneurs from four days to one day, to improve the unemployment benefit for self-employed persons and to reduce the number of bankrupt entrepreneurs. These measures will allow further employment growth to continue. Social justice will be increased, among other things, by curbing tax evasion. The grey economy and tax evasion are being attacked by extending the use of the tax number found in the construction sector to other sectors. In addition, there will be investment in pay subsidies for those who are hard to employ and increased resources for employment services. From the beginning of next year, unemployed people will be able to receive unemployment benefit when they start their business for four months, which will provide a little better financial security when entering a new career. The mid-term debate also drew attention to the role of families and the economic situation. In particular, day care fees for low-income families were reduced considerably already in connection with the parliamentary budget reading last autumn and now continue along the same lines. The daily care fee for a single parent who earns EUR 2500 per month will be reduced by up to EUR 100, as will the sister discount for day care. The lower limit of the general government tax has been increased again during this term of government, which would exempt a very large number of low-income Finns from the tax in question. Support for home care will remain unchanged and will continue to enable families to choose. There will be an increase of EUR 75 in the student allowance. Additional funds will also be allocated to the care of intoxicant mothers and shelters, which will make it easier for many families in a difficult situation. Mr President! More resources will be invested in internal and external security. It helps to keep, among other things, the number of policemen reasonable. At the same time, the conditions for border control, the protection police and the Defence Forces will be improved. The refugee quota remains at its current level, even though it was the subject of a public debate shortly before the mid-term review. The implementation of the asylum policy programme will also continue. A long-awaited reform of education and training is a reform of vocational education and training which improves the structures of vocational education and training, enables more individual learning paths and helps young people with learning difficulties to enter the labour market. In addition, the Government will launch a language experiment to which municipalities will be able to apply in the future. The law on language testing is now in the consultation process and will soon be in the parliamentary process. In many municipalities of Finland, the Finns Party has already taken council initiatives aimed at taking part in the experiment. Schoolchildren and students admitted to language testing are completely exempted from compulsory Swedish studies at all school levels, which is a very significant change in current language learning. It is also an improvement in comparison with previous plans according to which the persons selected for the language experiment would only be exempted for a limited period. The forthcoming experiment will therefore be a step towards genuine freedom of choice for language learning — and part of the overall package of the mid-term debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u208	Mr President! First of all, the good news, so today, at the beginning, thanks stand. I would like to thank the government for making a bold reform of early childhood education fees. I believe that this is the desired reform, and the direction of this reform is the right one. I also welcome the fact that the increase in the circular economy will now also be on the government agenda, as the SDP has long hoped and suggested. We must also act in the black economy, we now want to promote exports more strongly, and small one-off investments in research and development will be made in those parts of the administrative sector that have been drastically cut. Mr President! However, I would like to highlight a number of points on which we would have liked a different solution. The atmosphere was high, because the Prime Minister himself, before the beginning of the spending limits debate, stated in the future that in the Government's mid-term debate at the end of April, raising the employment rate and halting the development of inequality will rise above the others' themes. This was also the view of Prime Minister Sipilä as a May Day in 2014, when he felt that controlling unemployment should now be the primary task of the government. At the time, Prime Minister Sipilä thought what should be going on today. We have therefore expected very strong decisions from this spending limits board on employment. Our concern is that if the balance of central government finances is not sought through stronger employment management and higher employment rates, there will again be a way of further cuts. This road is untenable on a long run. That is why, in our own line, we have wanted to emphasise that these economic policy objectives set by the government in the right direction must be at the heart of this government's term of office. Unfortunately, as experts have already said, these government objectives are getting out of hand. This message would not have been said out loud in society more clearly than was done by the Ministry of Finance's own officials. According to the Ministry of Finance’s estimate, the actions resulting from the early week’s squeezing and scribbling, the two-day scribble, were too small on Friday, Friday of that same week, to allow the government to reach these goals. I'm sorry to hear that. It should therefore be noted that the employment rate will remain at 70% in 2019. Living as a debt will not end either in 2021, though In his speech as leader of the opposition, Sipilä explicitly stressed that this debt should be put to an end. Also, in his blog at the end of the last reign, the then leader of the opposition Sipilä said that Finland would continue to live as an eating debt and the goal of deleveraging was moved forward. That is exactly what is happening during Prime Minister Sipilä's period when we are living in this moment in 2017. I am deeply sorry for that, because this is a hard one, in fact the whole body of public finances, in which the deficit will rise to 4.2 billion in 2019, which is three times as much as the government itself stated, which in practice means that the government will not even be able to achieve the deficit target that the last government worked to achieve. In my opinion, this is an incomprehensible outcome. Now we are in a situation where this line of surgery has been plastered in some respects. Some small measures have been taken with repair movements, but those growth efforts unfortunately remain limited in relation to the objective of 110,000 new jobs. These measures will bring together some 45,000 jobs. Only about 4,000 jobs were created in this spending limits debate, and it is in the direction of something that will not work. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that this situation we are in will be very difficult in 2019. The broad tax base will be broken, as this proposal contains:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u209	Mr President! Today, in Parliament, the results of the government's mid-term debate have been repressed and called a contusion and whatever, but I see clear light at the end of the tunnel. The consolidation of Finland’s economy is important, with an economic growth of between 1% and 2%. However, employment is constantly improving towards the employment objective set by the government. The government is constantly closing the ten billion sustainability gap so that the necessary savings have been made, employment measures have been made — and even in this row they were made wholesale. In addition, a number of reforms are underway, such as the social and health reform and the reform of vocational education and training. But it is clear that putting Finland in good shape is not just an economy. Finland will only be okay when all the people in this 100-year history, Finns, everyone, are involved in some way. We in Parliament must certainly strengthen people's confidence in the future, even if we are talking about internal or external security, which also received additional funding for this, for police activities and so on. Much has been done to combat inequality, and there have also been many of them in the picture of the situation in public finances. It has been positive, despite the economic recession, that we have been able to make some improvements, such as raising the guarantee pension for the lowest-income pensioners and putting in place family care. We have also held very firmly to the fact that the municipalities are not being cut. There has been no reduction in the share of the state. It would be out of basic human services, education and health — that is, the local services that everyone needs every day. Of course, the government's best contribution to the mid-term is to reduce day care fees, which will make it easier for families with low and middle incomes. This means that more than 6700 families are moving to zero in the case of day care fees. It is welcome for the early childhood education debate that is currently taking place. In addition, efforts are now being made to improve the situation of the lowest-income student families by means of a care-sharing increase in student support. In addition, we invest in the services of children and families and support the rehabilitation of substance abuse mothers. The long-term objective of the city centre was just one of those things I mentioned earlier, namely the increase in the guardianship of study aid, and this was now achieved. Mr President! It's a completely different subject. The mid-term review also focused on the energy and climate strategy. We have the goals of carbon-neutral Finland, of getting rid of fossil fuels and the possibility of an entire circular economy in every sector. These are major challenges, and that means that without financial investment we will not be able to achieve them. Of course, we also have global energy and climate targets on our necks. The Government is now investing EUR 25 million in the implementation of measures under the energy and climate strategy. This enables large-scale renewable energy projects, such as the construction of biogas, solar energy and biorefinery plants. This means work for the whole of Finland. We are particularly busy setting out measures to promote low-emission transport, and this work has now been pushed into the parliamentary group, to which I myself belong. We are in a hurry to outline how to speed up the roll-out of electric and gas cars, how to possibly significantly reform the share of transport taxes and charges, how to continue to make public transport more people, how to make transport more intelligent in terms of overall traffic and how to make transport more capable of achieving these huge reductions in emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u210	Mr President! From this very spot, I will take my speech, roses and sticks briefly. I want to give you roses for raising the police's budget. This is a very important issue. They were asking if the opposition wasn't interested. I'm really interested in internal security. This is an extremely important issue. The police are currently in a very challenging situation with these resources, and this will be a very welcome addition to them. Also, this reduction in day care fees and the fact that as many as 6,700 families are now entering the zero-payment category — yes, thanks must be given to the government, very good action. But then there are the points where you wish the government would reconsider. At present, one in five boys and 18% of girls in the 20 to 24-year-old group are inactive. Youth unemployment, such structural inactivity, is coming here to Finland again. Unfortunately, this is what the government now has to look like. Wishing that the mistakes made during the recession in the '90s would never be made during this reign, never again, never again. This is a very serious problem. Now that we are living this centenary of Finland's independence on Finland 100 themes together, it would be in some way appropriate to make those investments in these young people this year, so that the lack of participation here in Finland could not grow. This housing allowance reform also does not fit in with this Finland Together theme. According to experts, this ceiling on the price of rents per square metre of the housing allowance will lead to the separation of residential areas. On the contrary, when we in Finland are trying to get this kind of inclusiveness into our society, it is that we would have to leave
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u211	Mr President! Let us say that the budgetary plan for the remaining parliamentary term is very good and realistic. Of course, there are many challenges and threats there, but it is not civilised to overwhelm them and especially to intimidate them, but it is determined to fight them. The general government deficit has been reduced, it is an undeniable fact and, above all, the direction has been changed. This is one of the most worthy acts of this government, in my view. The direction has been changed. For example, you can mention municipal finances. Last year, local government finances amounted to EUR 450 million in pros. After a long long hike, the surface was reached, the head is on the water surface and the municipal economy is recovering, and it is the municipality that does the services to people. Without it, the municipality's functioning economy will suffer more or less from services. I hope that the opposition will understand this, too, a little more positively. Of course, thanks have come from there, but such a general line has been very negative, what I wonder. The economy is currently growing slightly, depending on the economic calculator, by between 1.2% and 2%. In the meantime, there are forecasts for this year's growth. Unemployment has fallen somewhat, not enough, of course. There is still a distance to the goal of 100,000 new jobs, but here too, Mr President, we can say that the direction is the right one. We could argue endlessly about these numbers, which is the right number of unemployed people at the moment and what is the new jobs that are currently being created. The main thing is that the direction is right and that investments are made. For example, investments in the bioeconomy, such as the investment in Äänekoski, do not currently employ anyone other than carpenters, builders and many other professionals who are building that factory. But when we go into the operating phase, it will create new work, subcontracting new, new, new, new, chemical industries, to the transport side. It is a kind of huge shampoo that constantly grinds positive results into the area where it is affected, i.e. the whole centre of Finland. This is something to remember. There are many of these projects in Finland. Three projects in North Karelia have emerged in this debate. If I remember correctly, Mrs. Riitta Myller asked about those situations. In Lieksa, the biooil plant project is on the way, as is new investment in Nurmes, and hopefully this technical coal plant will also be brought to Ilomants. There's a clear tailwind out there. These should only be encouraged, supported and implemented by the government in such a way that entrepreneurs invest. The State itself is not an entrepreneur. It is important that it creates the conditions under which we try. When I look at the website of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, there is a clearly readable text that says that, according to the Confederation of Finnish Industries, the economic outlook is positive in all main industries, i.e. this is the big message. We can, as I said just now, argue about different numbers, whether they are the right size or even too small, but I think that is a bit of a smart-ass. What is important is that the Confederation of Finnish Industries has also stated that the trend has changed and growth is taking place in all main industries. I think this is a very valuable message. Mr President! A few final remarks on the bioeconomy side. The investment of the Äänekoski plant, which has just been mentioned, is a huge step forward, but I am surprised that, now that the bioeconomy has been seriously promoted at the time of this government, huge doubts have immediately been expressed on the part of the opposition about the destruction of biodiversity, sustainable felling and everything else. I have seen such a forecast, even an expert who claimed that Finland's forests are growing at 79 million times a year. After all, it is strange that the Finnish forest inventory data, which is almost 100 years old, should be abolished. The 11th inventory is on the way. We've got the exact data. Nevertheless, untruths are still being presented. I'm wondering a lot. Finally, Mr President, one thing that I think is perhaps the most important of these developments is the dismantling of bureaucracy. Our land use and building law has already been reformed, the planning has been simplified, the construction of small houses has been facilitated. Of course, the planning applies to both cities and rural areas. Here we go side by side. Summer dwellings can be converted into permanent dwellings where the owner of the cottage considers it necessary, so that the municipality decides on it without any other bureaucracy. The most important thing is that zoning bureaucracy has been reduced and the municipality has more and more powers in its own affairs. I think this is the big thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u212	Mr President! The reform of child day care, which now came about — i.e. children from nearly 7,000 families for free day care and early childhood education — is a good reform. We must thank the government for that. But its funding is not good. This is now paid by raising property tax and is unduly targeted at elderly people living in the cottage and pensioners living in the cottage. The tax is an equal tax and, in relative terms and on an equal footing, it is not fair, because the grandmother's cottages on land, living in an old detached house, pay more than the people living in new detached houses. It is inconceivable that this should be seen as an act of equality. People who have already raised their own children and have also provided care and care for grandchildren and grandchildren are now paying a great deal of attention. I am particularly surprised that the Finns have accepted this, because this is precisely the group, the people who have traditionally been supporters of the Finns. I can't help but wonder. I would have asked the Minister of Justice — but he left here when the television cameras went out — that, if the debtor’s position were now eased and the person’s bankruptcy was said to be possible, whether it was a natural person’s bankruptcy or a personal bankruptcy. These are two different things, quite different. By the time of the second bankruptcy, the assets and assets will be transferred to the bankruptcy estate and will be used as far as payments can be made and then the person can start a new life and the money he earns after the bankruptcy will no longer be paid the debts of the bankruptcy estate. But if a natural person is declared bankrupt, then, after bankruptcy, this person will in future pay the debts that have been outstanding in the event of bankruptcy. In other words, we should definitely be able to find out which one is being applied for. Second point: When an unemployed person who is in enforcement procedures gets to work, he does not have to pay voudi anything for six months, which means that the bailiff does not step on the salary and bail it out. I want to know whether, during this six-month period, interest will increase on the claim, the debt that is in the enforcement, and so, six months ago, will continue to increase the amount of debt the debtor has. I don't think this is... If that is the case, then this is not an improvement, quite the contrary. This package focuses on the management of employment. That is a good idea and a good one. But now it seems to be the flagship of employment policy that the unemployed are squatting and stalking. Let me give you a few examples: According to the Government’s plans, the unemployed person must report every 7 days on the continued search for a job. If an unemployed person does not do this, for example because he does not have a computer, he falls outside unemployment benefit. You will not be allowed back until you have worked or taken active measures or have provided a medical certificate for your illness to the Employment Office. This is a bit of a reform, isn't it? It's absurd. The government also plans to require the unemployed to submit at least 12 job applications within three months. If this doesn't happen, it'll be 60 days of quarantine. In the future, the unemployed will also have to spend 18 hours in work or active measures within three months. If this is not met, the compensation will be reduced by almost 5 % over a period of three months, i.e. 65 days. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy aims to reduce the costs of unemployment, and the unemployed are apparently being paid for. It is a pity that there is no work at this point and that our economy is not improving. There are a total of 385,000 unemployed people in labour policy measures, and when these people start to report each week, they need more workers — of course it does, but it costs money. Would it not be much more sensible to spend the money that goes into this, such as looking for hidden jobs at the employment offices, as was the case in the past? That would be employment that would create growth. It would be employment that would increase employment. And that would be employment that would reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u213	Mr President! When Prime Minister Sipilä's government began its work, it had a strong majority, new ideas on ambitious objectives and decision-making. In mid-term, it is the right time to assess their implementation. The reform of decision-making according to efficiency indicators in the business world has remained at the roadside. The Government Programme is the same as they usually are. The number of ministers is as it usually has been in the Finnish governments. Instead of a management group in an open office, the government compromises its internal differences with ordinary political compromises. However, monitoring the Prime Minister’s learning process is not the most relevant part of the assessment. It is important to assess the prospects for government policy as it moves towards the end. To sum up, the government does not have its own vision of the great line of economic policy. Finland's economy has been taking blows because of the slow growth of the international economy and the structural competitiveness problems of Finnish industry. Now it is hoping for a boost for the international economy and, in particular, for the recovery of growth in the most important economic area for us, the euro area. Let's hope the wind grabs the sails and takes the boat forward. Even in the context of fiscal consolidation, responsibility is passed on to others. Billions of savings will only be made in the next parliamentary term if they do. After all, it is noted in the budgetary plan that structural savings are in the preparatory phase and that their implementation depends on the municipalities. Mr President! The Government’s fiscal policy line should have taken better account of the economic conditions affecting Finland. Last year there were cuts which would have been better driven by domestic demand. We could now afford to tighten up fiscal policy. Of course, this is hindsight. However, it is appropriate to bring it up, because it is quite clear that from the outset fiscal policy was guided by party politics and electoral tactics: bad news first, and then it is hoped that the passing of time and loosening of politics will put the evil mind behind us. However, the lack of structural policy has been worse than the fragility of fiscal policy. In the long term, our well-being depends on whether we can raise Finland to a higher growth career. The starting point is difficult. The working-age population in Finland is decreasing, so it is difficult to increase the labour input. The outlook for Finland’s productivity growth is subdued. The focus of the industry has moved from high technology to raw material production. Public finance choices can indirectly influence the growth path of the economy. Efforts should be made in education and research. Education could, in the long term, help to increase labour productivity. Something could also be done about the supply of labour. A sensible reform of family leave would increase participation in work. The reform of family leave, which increases equality, would keep both mothers and fathers closer to change in working life and improve productivity. Public finance choices would also have a greater impact on productivity. By investing in research, we could get back in the forefront of technology. The study has, however, been cut off. The Finnish natural resource sector is an important part of the economy, but it should not be expected that the designation of pulp mills as bioproduct factories will improve the structure of the economy at all. Of course, some praise must be given to the government: it is about time that the opening hours of the shops were changed, and there is movement in transport policy. As long as the government did not slow down due to the lobbying of pharmacies, it would have been possible to give the whole service sector at least a satisfactory rating. Mr President! The government's working methods have stabilized and the objectives have been reduced to power politics. Only one of the strengths of its early days remains: it has a majority. But that too is falling apart. In municipal elections, government support was below the 50% limit. More importantly, the government seems to have lost contact with the values of the people. The Finns are not old-fashioned conservatives, let alone intolerant. The Finnish people support liberal values. We're tolerant. We are in favour of European unity. We are in favour of equality between men and women and the freedom to choose one's own way of life. The moment of twilight that has called our values into question is passing away. The government still has two years left. For the country's sake, I wish it success in many things, but now we can begin to count its last days.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u214	Mr President! Today it was great to see Prime Minister Sipilä's eye for growth. He even said, quite rightly, that what if we were not satisfied with just a 2% increase, what if we were to achieve even more, 2.5 or even 3? That is quite right, and that is the kind of debate I have longed for in Finland. I think that the whole of Finland is waiting for such a positive attitude towards the future, rather than scaring people with constant cuts and pain, which is linked to it. I am also pleased that the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs has, for example, been unanimous in its energy climate report on almost everything. It reflects the common will that we have across government-opposition boundaries. That is a big deal, because it is where we are going to be laying down guidelines until 2030, and of course we need to be able to look even further. It is also a good thing and a good thing that the openings of the SDP, both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the wider context of industrial policy, have been taken seriously and even included in the committee's report and, more broadly, in the government's programming. This can be seen, for example, in the circular economy, but also in tourism. Finally, the government is really investing in tourism and sees its potential. This work has not been wasted, either. But unfortunately, growth does not surprise us joyfully; it must be done. Together with representative Ihalainen, we tried today to raise the fact that Finland will not survive without success in creating high value added products and services. We cannot make bulk; we must know how to make high added value. In fact, as early as the 1990s, we learned that the Finnish innovation system must be closely involved in global value chains, i.e. the international operating environment. The growth of the 1990s was based on a great deal of success on this very issue. This is my concern, which I raised both in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and today in the Chamber: As good as the sustainable use of forests and the bio-strategy itself are, it is not enough for us alone. We need a diversified industrial policy. We need products, services that multiply internationally and have a truly international market. And as Mrs Hoskonen, last week in Canada we learned, there are countries in the world where the Finnish forestry strategy fits very well, but unfortunately this zone is not always global. I hope that you will pay attention to this, Madam Government. We need to create — one might say — a new innovation system in the 2020s with a truly global interface. Competitiveness has also been one of the big themes of the government, and logistics and accessibility to the greatest extent are it. I therefore hope that the government itself will not be left with this kind of damage, but will continue to take investment seriously. Northeast cable, ice-sea rail connection, Tallinn tunnel — all possible, all to do. But, of course, new financing models are needed; there are not always plans for how we can even get funding. Mr President! Finally, a few words about primary production. I was happy to welcome the new Minister Leppa's exit from Finland's own brands need living space and the own brands of the store's central stores are actually on the road to this internationalisation. I believe in Finnish primary production, its success, but let's give way to our own brands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u215	Mr President! Today we are discussing a budgetary plan for the years 2018 to 2021. It is very good that we have the opportunity, at regular intervals, to discuss the coming years and the economic prospects. First of all, it is good to recognise what we agree on. Everyone in this Chamber will probably agree that even though the Finnish economy is showing bright spots, we are still facing challenges. As the debate has been taking place for a long time, I would like to raise a few points that are worthy of attention. A lot of talk about the result of the government's corporate subsidies reduction work is round zero. So the government has not been able to eliminate anything and thus continue to use loose money while itself asserting that Finland has a debt problem. For example, there are many business subsidies that distort competition, including those whose investments do not affect competitiveness or employment, and there are also those that are harmful to the environment. At this point, it would have been wise to clean through business subsidies that guide companies to pollute and consume more limited resources. Reducing these subsidies and redirecting the search for new economic solutions would be the least the government could have done. Second of all: The long-awaited reform of the family leave is still under way. By reforming family-free, the government would have improved the employment rate and employment in Finland. Moreover, this would have been an act of equality that would have facilitated the employment of young women and encouraged fathers to stay at home more and more with their children. It is therefore amazing how these long-awaited reforms, the reduction of business subsidies and the reform of family leave have again failed. A welcome reform could certainly praise the reduction in early childhood education fees, and it is also great that the government took back a few of its training and research cuts. It can be seen from this mid-term debate that the government has tried to make up for the cuts it has made in the past, partly with one-off small sums. I hope that investment in research and training will be the beginning of a greater policy change. Investing in knowledge would also create faith in the long-term duration of our public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u216	Mr President! That's where I tried to get my debut shift a while ago, but now's a chance to talk. When Mr Yanar was talking about company subsidies, I was talking about transport subsidies. In other words, transport subsidies are particularly important in Eastern and Northern Finland. They aim to reduce the high transport costs of long journeys by SMEs in the outermost regions to sea ports and thus improve the conditions for business and employment in those regions. The aid is vital to our export industry in competition with our Swedish competitors, for example. We are in a much more challenging position than they are, because the distances to seaports are longer than they are. I believe that transport aid should be given a long-term political orientation and must be maintained in the future. I hope the government will take the transport subsidies into account in its decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-03-ps-47.u217	Mr President! The fact that the bioeconomy has now actually been promoted and billions of investments have been made and are still being made is worth noting the simple fact that it is very important for us to mobilise private investment. Every paper mill or every bioeconomy plant, whatever it is, is in itself an investment of tens, hundreds of millions, even billions, which specifically supports the Finnish metal industry and so on. In the same context, another point needs to be raised. When we start transporting Finnish green gold, wood, factories, power plants and so on, for example, we have to fix the road network. This government has turned the sled into a plus, even in this case. We have clearly taken a new direction in improving the condition of the lower road network and the main road network and the condition of the railway network. It is true that critics can also say immediately that they are still not in good shape. Certainly not, there is a lack of care of about EUR 2.5 billion, which, to put it bluntly, will be managed by one third, slightly over. In other words, we are on the path we need to be, and we should not be afraid that we are investing in large investments, because they will one day bring back new jobs. Unemployment will cost us about EUR 5 billion, just over. And then the second, which consumes a huge amount of capital from us, is, for example, this current housing subsidy policy, which has caused us to invest more than EUR 2 billion annually in housing subsidies. There is nothing wrong with supporting the housing of deprived people — it is quite right, warmly supported — but housing subsidies must not be from which foreign millionaires visit here to make huge profits and then export those profits abroad and do not even pay a proper tax to Finland. These leaks in the state economy must be blocked with enthusiasm, because if we do not support them we ourselves will be the victim of them and then we will have to pay higher taxes.
