ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u2	Congressman Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u3	Mr President! Despite emerging economic growth and improving employment conditions, unemployment remains a major problem in Finland. When we look at unemployment not only as a statistical issue, but at the level of the unemployed, individuals living in different life situations, the picture is not as bright as the government ministers and parliamentarians suggest. During this period of government, the situation of unemployed people has been weakened in many ways and their plight has deepened. The duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit has been significantly reduced and increases have been removed. Unemployment security has also been weakened by index cuts and freezing. In addition, the level of general housing allowance is again being reduced. The last weakening is the active model of unemployment protection promoted by the government, which increases bureaucracy and undermines the livelihoods of the unemployed. So I ask the Minister for Employment, Mr Lindström: why does the government continue to blame the unemployed for not working, even though unemployment is mainly due to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u4	Mr President! Congressman Marin, now you're accusing the government of guilt. At least I have never, nor has this government, blamed any unemployed person for his own position. On the contrary, we have been concerned. We have made many tightening ups, as you said, and we have admitted aloud here that we have made tightenings, cuts and blackmails. I have said it out loud and confess, but in the same breath: Among other things, we have launched interviews every three months, which were initially condemned and which were considered quite impossible that this was not going to happen. What happened? Now positive feedback comes from the field, from the Employment and Economic Development Offices, that these actually work not only for the unemployed but also for these much talked about statistics. Today we know better who are actually unemployed and who are not. In other words, it is always forgotten that there are also positive factors behind these tightening ups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u6	Mr President! In my opinion, it is to blame the unemployed people for making reforms that are precisely hitting on the livelihoods of the unemployed and undermining their position. Unemployed people are not just numbers, they are people. They are living alone, they are the daily lives of families with children, they are young people starting their own lives, and they are people who already have a career and experience in life. According to a recent survey by Nordea’s economist Olli Kärkkäinen, the largest number of people in the population, i.e. most of all, are losing students and unemployed during this term of government. The income of the most low-income unemployed will decrease by up to EUR 140 per year. The change to the last term of government is significant. In addition, the government has limited the services of unemployed people, for example by restricting day care from the children of the unemployed. In fact, over 100,000 children live in families, most of which are families of the unemployed and these families are poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u8	Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u9	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that yes to countless Finnish unemployed people, the government's actions have made it a good situation for them to have a job. We currently have some 40,000 vacancies. This is because Finland's economy is growing, exports are drawing up, opportunities for access to employment are being created. 20,000 fewer long-term unemployed. This is the best and most effective way to help unemployed people, to eliminate inequalities in this society. And when you raised the issue of families with children, I hope that you will also mention in this litania that some 7,000 families have been completely exempted from early childhood education fees and that they have been significantly reduced from those on low and medium incomes. This government invests in family policy by starting a family leave reform. So a lot of good is happening, and it would be reasonable sometimes to mention it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u10	Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Lindström: How do you think it fits in with the idea that if an unemployed person does not find himself a job or does not find himself active, then his unemployment benefit will be cut? In other words, the unemployed have an obligation to find a job or an active activity for themselves, but he does not decide either of these matters. It's an employer who decides who to take on the job. It is the TE administration and the municipality that directs these active policies, so that the unemployed cannot actually influence whether or not to cut his unemployment benefit. I am pleased that there has been positive developments in employment. But I would ask Minister Orpo: what is the basis for this reduction in long-term unemployment of 20,000? In fact, the statistics show that we only have 7,000 more people working, and they also show that the vast majority of long-term unemployment, these people, has moved away from working life: retirement, out of the labour force or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u11	I believe that the substance of this question is directed to Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u12	Mr President! First of all, this active model. It is up to us to act in such a way that these services are available to the unemployed so that they do not face any threat of sanctions because we do not have services if we do not have those jobs. It's our job to arrange it. [TarjaFilatov’s Intercall] As far as this long-term unemployment is concerned, these statistics are often discussed. There are statistics of the Ministry of Employment, there are statistics of Statistics Finland. There are certain differences. Long-term unemployment has fallen to around 102,000 people. So 25,500 people are less long-term unemployed than one year earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u13	There appear to be two questions about this theme of unemployment. I suggest that the debate is on both of these issues and that a little more time be devoted to this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u14	Congressman Mäkelä, you have a real question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u15	Mr President! Employment statistics are a traditional way of politics: there is no need to speak the altered truth when using the truth selectively. Government parties have been acclaiming that some 54,000 fewer unemployed people have registered with employment offices than one year ago. So unemployment on paper is falling, but is employment rising in practice? Doesn't sound like it. According to Statistics Finland, there are only 7,000 more employed persons than one year ago. Where did the government lose over 45,000 unemployed? According to the reports, some of these people are involved in a number of measures and trainings whose effects remain to be seen — I believe. That sounds a lot like a trick job carried out by previous governments. This atmosphere of guilt is also very interesting. I am concerned about the government's value base for employment management: for example, the representative, the chairman of the Economic Committee on the Turunen Blue Group on Twitter 26.9. Insinuated that the Finns might have gone to dark jobs. Is this atmosphere also common in government parties? Dear government, who are these people? Can you give us the real picture of the employment situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u16	Mr President! In Statistics Finland's Labour Force Survey figures, those changes were very small in August. The number of employed persons grew only marginally, but unemployment also grew slightly. On the other hand, hidden unemployment decreased. In employment services statistics, or the statistics of the Ministry of Employment, the fall in unemployment was strong. So this decrease was nearly 54,000 persons compared to last year’s August. This large decline is explained both by the improved labour market situation and by the impact of these periodic interviews. The number of persons in the inactive population was around 1.4 million. It's down to about 5,000 people. But the number of persons in disguised unemployment has fallen by 14,000, and it tells us, in the opinion of our experts, that people who had lost faith in seeking employment have returned to the labour market. That is why we have a strange situation where unemployment is falling at the same time, but when more people come and get jobs, this also confuses these statistics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u17	Under the rules of the game, if one more representative Mr Mäkelä's question gave rise to an additional question, and I would ask those representatives who are still inspired by it to use the supplementary question, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u18	Mr President! The labour shortage has been intimidated for years, whether it went well, badly or very badly. This is justified by the need to eliminate the need for a foreign labour force. The reason has recently been that unemployment has fallen, but we have just said that employment has not increased, that this is not true, so will the government now bury the hopes of importing cheap labour into Finland and trampling on the conditions of the Finnish labour force? What is the government’s view of this need-tested exercise now? Are you going to create a new entry channel in Finland that a Finnish worker pays for his backskin?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u19	Mr President! Thank you for your excellent question. Mr Mäkelä also remembers very well what has been included in the Government Programme on this matter. It can be trusted that once it is included in the Government Programme, the needs test will not be discontinued. And as long as I am on this mission, the matter can be discussed in the sense that we will see what it really means if we give up the need-tested exercise. The Ely of Uusimaa recently decided to abandon this in the construction sector, and now we want to find out what the result has been. Was it necessary, and what comes out of it after counting on the so-called free market whether there will be a grey economy and so on, so that we really know what we are talking about, because we cannot talk about giving up on needs at the same time if we are not also talking about the grey economy, underpaid and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u20	Mr President! The number of unemployed job seekers has decreased, and this is, of course, a good thing, but at least as important is what the representative also does. In his question, Mäkelä pointed out that the number of employed persons has not increased in the same proportion. If the same thing is seen by numbers, the situation is as follows: the number of unemployed job seekers decreased by 54,000 and the number of employed persons increased by 7,000 over the year. I would like to ask the minister in question: where are all the unemployed registered? And the fundamental question: what kind of action does the government intend to take to increase the number of people employed? That is the most essential thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u22	Mr President! I can add that we have also received good figures today that, according to the Bank of Finland's forecast, the global economy will grow even faster than was thought, as well as the euro area economy. This means that our exports have very good prospects, provided that competitiveness is maintained. Our exports provide us with the basis for economic growth, for more jobs than at present and for job creation, and then we do not have to argue about statistics, but for more and more people to work. Well, what does the government do to increase the supply of work? Family leave reform is the latest decision the government made. Today, we published that the government is launching a major project to prepare a comprehensive reform of the social security system, a social security model that encourages activity, which is of particular concern to people, which is intended to influence the fact that, in all situations, it is worth taking up work, while at the same time taking care of the most vulnerable. This is significant
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u23	Mr President! Minister Lindström, you said that the government now has better information on who is unemployed. But the key question is: Is this true for all the unemployed? For example, in the budget debate, Minister Orpo said that 20,000 long-term unemployed have moved from unemployment to work, and this is not true in the light of statistics. Some have been employed, some have moved to labour policy measures, but then there are also unemployed people who have not renewed their job search or who have moved completely outside the labour force. Our concern now is whether there are also unemployed job seekers among them who, as a result of this tightening of sanctions policy, have fallen into income support. We know that the number of incomeless households in Finland has doubled over the last few years, and our interpretation is that one of the reasons is that there has been an increase in the consideration of unemployment security, which leads to sanctions being imposed as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u24	Mr President! Of course, we are always trying to provide the right information as far as possible, and of course this is the case, as Mr Andersson said about long-term unemployment — I said just now that not just for work but for these services. And has some effect on the statistics of the long-term unemployed, too, by this Lex Lindström. Of course, it is clear that it is also visible there. But it is essential that the number of long-term unemployed should be below 100,000 soon to be printed. I think it's a great thing, mentally, but there's still too many people out there. And this is a long process because the long-term unemployed person is not only unemployed but has a lot of psychosocial problems, which is why the government also invested in this issue in a row and put more money in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u25	Mr President! It is great that the growth started in the spring of 2015 and the reduction in the number of unemployed in the autumn has strengthened and moved forward. I would like to say, Mr Lindström, that no one was opposed to increasing the number of services and activation measures for the unemployed — yes, alongside them, to exacerbating and weakening the position of the unemployed. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Orpo, does not create jobs by cutting jobs, there is no job creation by making people miserable, there is no job creation by disparate or outsourcing some people outside of growth. I would like to ask again what Mr Marin asked: why do you want to blame the unemployed, Mr Orpo?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u28	Mr President! I do not know who Mrs Rinne is talking to when you said that we blame the unemployed or that we in particular make the situation of families with children miserable. I don't recognize either of these things. We work every day, we have worked for this government to make the economy grow so that we can get as many unemployed Finns as possible to work. This line of economic policy and employment policy, which we have followed, is leading us to a strong growth of our economy, a strong growth that will be seen next year and the following year. It offers opportunities for more and more people to get to work. And I repeat as far as families with children are concerned: we have made significant investments in families with children,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u31	Mr President! However, I think it is now the case that the position of the unemployed person is best improved when the unemployed person gets a job. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u32	Mr President! Indeed, one of the top points in this debate was youth unemployment and investment in it. They added a thousand places to vocational education,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u35	Mr President! It's going to be better than it's been for years. It is true that employment is improving and employment is improving. In recent times, this change has taken place, that we are going for the better. When, according to the statistics, this unemployment rate has decreased by 54,000, but yet the employment rate has increased by only 7,000 persons, this is the way the Gäppi is. I would therefore ask the responsible minister whether there is any further intention to find out where this is. But the real question is that we have large regional disparities within the country in terms of employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u37	Mr President! It is precisely this problem that has been addressed. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the biggest problem is living and moving. The mobility allowance has been extended, its availability. The second point is that it is not yet very well known that such things can be used. It is our job, of course, to market these means, which we already have. This housing is, of course, on the back of the Minister for Housing, but even in New Town, which is now a good example of this, efforts have been made to solve these problems. But there are many answers to these problems raised by Mr Turuse in the context of a positive structural change and in finding out what the government could do to ensure that this issue is spread forward. They are big challenges, but we still want to know what the government could do to make this positive momentum spread all over Finland. Now there are messages from all sides that there is also growth in those areas where it was previously
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u38	Mr President! Finns are willing to work, and then they must be able to apply to the labour market, and here comes family policy. You have cut children's subjective day care rights so that an unemployed child only has a part-time day care right. Of course, it is wrong from the point of view of children to put children in an unequal position with regard to early childhood education, but it is also wrong from the point of view of unemployed labour market status. In other words, the unemployed parent of small children only has a part-time opportunity to improve their labour market position and apply for employment. This is a real problem in many families of young children, if you do not have your own car, if you have to print out your job applications in a library, you have to interview around the city, and in the name of activation you simply increase your obligations to the unemployed. Is there not some sort of contradiction here when it comes to improving the chances of the unemployed to find employment and to seeking employment, that the right to full-time day care for the child has been removed from the families of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u39	This question is addressed to Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u40	Mr President! Every child is entitled to 20 hours of early childhood education, not day care, but early childhood education. It is a big and significant difference, although sometimes it may seem like lily, and the terms are also important in the everyday life of kindergarten teachers. This government has launched a reform of the family leave system, which is very important and important, and it is being put to the finish line so that it will be implemented during this term of government. Similarly, the government will significantly reduce early childhood education fees next year so that more and more children will be able to participate in early childhood education. For families with low and average incomes, especially early childhood education fees will decrease by EUR 70 million next year. In addition, we will launch an experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u41	Mr President! I do understand the concerns of the opposition and the difficult situation in that, when you see that this government has set itself the main objective of increasing employment and economic growth, so now that employment is improving, the economy is growing, your room for manoeuvre is, after all, to complain about the government's actions, I understand that point of view. But I would hope that you too can be happy for the people, the hardworking Finns who have now reached work, a better livelihood and thereby build their lives and the lives of their families for the better, as they should be, or for those families with children who, for example, now receive free early childhood education because of the government's actions. Encourage the government to do more. More needs to be done, and this rapid growth will also require action to improve conversion training in order to solve the problem of matching. Truck index: At night there are only trucks running, we see how the economy is growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u42	There were quite a few fingers up, but I think Secretary Grahn-Laasonen is mostly responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u43	Mr President! That's a very good question. We have the happy situation in Finland that there are many vacancies for a long time. This is particularly evident in the south-west of Finland, where both shipyards and the car industry currently employ more and more people. Fortunately, this situation is equally positive in many other parts of Finland, which means that we have even developed a certain shortage of experts in Finland, and it is now being resolved by many different means. The Government has increased resources to respond to the needs of the experts of a positive structural change, including a new model of cooperation in the field of technology training in areas where there is a shortage of experts. The number of starting places for polytechnics has been increased, particularly in the field of technology, in order to respond to this, and vocational education and training has been increased, among other things, by the most recent decision to tackle a thousand new starting places, especially youth unemployment, and at the same time we can solve this shortage of experts. In addition, more structural reforms are needed to enable the development of one's own skills throughout the career. That is, the model of conversion training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u44	Mr President! Economic growth does not automatically help everyone in the labour market. We have had legislation on social enterprises in Finland, which has helped the long-term unemployed, part-employed and disabled people to participate in the labour market through social enterprises. They have received a fixed-term increased wage subsidy. Now there's a strange thing going on on the government side. The legislation of social enterprises, and hence social enterprises, is apparently being driven down. However, when you look at Europe, it is social enterprises and social entrepreneurship that help people get back to work and also enable the long-term unemployed and other disadvantaged people to participate in the labour market. During the previous government, it was decided to reform the legislation of social enterprises. We didn't have time to do that. It was the responsibility of this government. But is it really true that the legislation of social enterprises, and hence social enterprises, are being driven down in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u45	Mr President! This subject, which Mr Essayah is asking about, makes the representatives of the government here a little bit of a question to each other, that this subject does not sound familiar to us in this form, that this is what we would be driving down. On the contrary, this entity is linked to it. I assume that this question is the responsibility of Minister Mattila, who is now absent. After all, we have a whole lead project in bringing people who are able to work part-time towards working life. We are also going through various kinds of experiments, such as the experiment of participation, the strengthening of adult social work, specifically the different forms of support that we would use to support people towards working life. We know very well that there are people among the long-term unemployed who are not satisfied with opening up the door to work or having job vacancies, but with the need for different forms of support, and that is why I very much welcome what Minister Lindström has said here that young people are now also looking at unemployment from the perspective of their lives, so that psychosocial services can also be seen from the point of view of their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u46	With regard to this question — that is, the issue of unemployment and employment — I give the last supplementary question to Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u47	Mr President! It is true that there have also been bright signs in our economy. And if you look at these success stories — the shipyard industry, the car industry in New Town, the Rauma shipyard — then the groundwork and sowing were done last season, [of the Socialist Group : large number! ] There are two points I would like to draw attention to. The second is this: however, we still have over 100,000 long-term unemployed, and it is true that it is now going to require greater efforts, as is the case today, to bring these people's path through rehabilitation into the labour market and finance and the third sector's ability to work for them as well. The second is that when a person becomes unemployed at the age of 55, the threshold for getting a job then rises to an infinite height, over 80 weeks. We should definitely pay attention to this. Shortening of one day
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u49	Mr President! It must be said that Mr Ihalainen will continue his guaranteed constructive line, and thank you for that. I have said before that I am always prepared to listen to wise advice, because I do not think I know everything, and I know that the opposition also has a lot of expertise in dealing with unemployment. All this kind of stuff, ideas and stuff, we'll take it with gratitude. It is then a government that decides what we take to concrete, but I am not saying at all that we have all the wisdom. In view of this activation of the unemployed and the fact that unemployment benefit is now being used for these active measures under the new law: you have similar ideas. We have exactly the same goal, these means are always a little different from how we approach this. It is true that long-term unemployment is still too high, but everything we can do
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u50	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u51	Mr President! I'll ask Minister Lintilä. This week, the government announced a medium-term climate programme and declared that it was taking a carbon-neutral Finland. At the same time, state-owned Fortum announced that it would buy about half of the German Uniper, with more than 80 per cent of its operations based on coal. When the German major electricity company E.ON split into two parts a couple of years ago, one of them put new forms of energy, such as renewable energy and smart grids, into the other. The latter was called E.OFF in public. Now Fortum is buying this particular E.OFF, a kind of garbage department, whose operations are based on accelerating climate change and inevitably represent outgoing forms of energy. Is the Minister of Corporate Governance going to intervene in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u52	Mr President! The Minister of Ownership is not going to interfere in this trade. Fortum's management has assessed this as the best option in its entirety. I am aware that 30% of the capacity there is in carbon form, in fossil form, but of course it must also be understood that hydropower comes from there. About 80 per cent of Sweden, or nearly the same amount as Fortum currently has. And in view of the situation that Germany has taken with regard to nuclear power, it is quite natural that such an important energy company still has fossil energy and relatively much there, because it will be the transitional form that Germany will need in the transition from nuclear to new forms of energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u53	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button. I will give you two or three supplementary questions, no more so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u54	Mr President! Uniper is blacklisted by several responsible investors, such as OP, precisely because of coal and large emissions. The public is already asking whether Fortum will soon be on similar blacklists. For years, the investor world has been discussing the carbon bubble, because there are many companies whose activities are based on climate change and fossil fuels. If climate change is actually decided to be contained, these companies cannot continue as before. In other words, the value of the shares in these companies will collapse.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u57	Minister Lindström... Excuse me, Minister Lintilä. But here we go with L.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u58	Mr President! First of all, we must remember that Fortum will become a shareholder in the company, it will not buy it, and there will be no merger.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u63	Mr President! After all, Fortum's cashier received significant funds from the so-called Caruna stores. With the approval of the Minister of Ownership and the majority approval of the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, the regional monopoly network was sold to private foreign investors, and since then Fortum has tried to find an investment target for this money. It was said at the time that funds were needed to invest in renewable energies and in the country of origin. But if you look now where Fortum has invested these money from Caruna stores and other networks, then this is one example. On the other hand, the Russian market has been launched, among other things. The question is now for the Minister responsible for corporate governance: now that Caruna has been sold, money has been obtained and invested in such sites, is this safe, what are the risks from the perspective of our national ownership and how these will benefit?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u64	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki forgot about this purchase of Ekokem, which Fortum then purchased, which also plays a very strong role in the production of energy from waste in Finland and in the development of this industry. Yes, Fortum has made efforts to bring more renewable energy to the fore. The fact that gas comes from this store and it comes from Russia is a reality which, of course, must be taken into account. But I don't see any particular negative aspect of that situation. As a whole, this transaction will strengthen Fortum's position and will strengthen Fortum's ability to pay dividends in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u66	My final supplementary question, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u67	Mr President! Minister Lintilä has said that he does not intend to intervene in this trade. It is clear that when a State-owned company trades nearly EUR 4 billion, no trade of this size will take place without consultation with the main owner. If you say here that you will not intervene in this trade, it is your choice to accept this trade. We are committed to the Paris climate agreement. The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals are today meeting two years. A long debate was held here yesterday on the Government's energy and climate strategy. Mr Lintilä, you have now decided to accept this trade. What does this look like, how does this relate to the government's objectives of sustainable development and the fight against climate change? It looks bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u68	Mr President! The Government maintains its own climate and energy strategy, the national energy and climate strategy, [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u71	Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u72	Mr President! An educated and skilled people have the power of a small country. Nevertheless, it is students and knowledge and education that have been particularly badly hit by government cuts. With the decision of the Board of Directors, more than EUR 80 per month was cut from the already small housing allowance for students. However, that is not enough for the government either: the government is planning a 20% cut in the housing allowance for students living in a group room. This surgery could also cost the state a great deal of money, as it could drive people out of the car and into the studios. This would congest the already congested market for small rental dwellings and increase rents and hence housing support expenditure as a whole. Mr President! Now that the economy is growing and the state economy has turned towards a better one, could this absurd new austerity plan, particularly for students and other young people, not be abandoned?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Seán Ó Fearghaíl, President of Ireland, has arrived with his delegation to follow the plenary session. On behalf of the Parliament, I welcome the distinguished guests to this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u74	Mr President! The representative's question was related to the housing allowance system. First of all, I would like to place your question on an economic scale: According to Kela's data, in 2016, housing support expenditure cost the state approximately EUR 1.9 billion. Now, in next year's budget, the government is planning a cut of EUR 28 million. With regard to this part of your question, which concerns the introduction of this standard for part-time housing back to housing, I would also point out that it is a measure which restricts the price of carpools and the euro that goes into the pockets of landlords, in the same way as it was actually possible to do in the case of housing aid a few years ago, before the previous reform. Our message is still strongly that it is great for students to find solutions to live in a group room, but this standard of part-time housing is now largely linked to our wanting to curb the excessive amounts in total rents, which is currently the same as the one in the group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u75	And this question is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u76	Next question, Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u77	Mr President, värderade talman! Vem har rätt att utföra dagsurgiska operationer i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u78	Mr President! Your question relates to the government's decision on the health law. Our goal is to ensure surgery in Finland in such a way that patient safety and those experts, what is in the hands of doctors and medical staff, are ensured in the same place so that, in case of real need, we will certainly have a sufficient number of experts in the key places where we have central hospital level operations. The questioner is quite right, we are proposing, under regulations and laws, certain restrictions on what things and what types of surgery can be carried out in different levels of hospitals. However, that does not mean that the government is turning off the lights from any hospital, and I hope that you will also consider whether health care is at the heart of the 2020s as a truly single surgical procedure, or whether we can finally see primary health care services and also post-operative rehabilitation as at least as important as health care and vigorously defend these issues as the most important part of local services for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u79	This question has also been closed this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u80	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u81	Mr President! Just like that, a little bit more. The question really is that the public sector currently buys almost all soft surgery from the private side. Now these new requirements mean that the majority of these private hospitals do not meet these 24/7 presence requirements, including for an anesthesiologist, where the big question is how on earth the public sector intends to cope with these surgeries when the majority of them are already performed as private purchasing services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u82	Mr President! To continue on this subject: it is quite true that this is not a very simple issue at a time when we are undergoing a change towards a new period of social and health services, when the provinces are responsible for these services. All of this is therefore linked to the forthcoming major reform and the future freedom of choice for citizens in services, including special care in certain areas. However, we stress that, both now and in the future, the cuts that people want to make in private health care are not going to be affected. And with regard to public money purchase contracts, commitments or similar contracts with which the public supports its own activities, this has been the last one on the table of our responsible ministers today. We are currently working on a government line to ensure that our response is unambiguous on a complex issue and that the regions — as we hope in other words in these solutions — are able to act at a sufficient distance and in the interests of the whole province, its future governing body and its citizens and the inhabitants of the region as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u83	Next question, Congressman Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u84	Mr President! By criminalizing an act, society tells us that the act is wrong. Legislation will also enable us to influence people’s attitudes and behaviour. A good example of this is the reduction in discipline violence against children and the change in attitudes through criminalisation. Our neighbours Sweden, Norway and Iceland have completely criminalised the purchase of sex. In Finland, only sex purchased from the victim of pimping or trafficking in human beings or minors has been criminalised. Finnish legislation is not working. Mr President! I ask the minister concerned: what measures are planned to put legislation in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u85	Mr President! Indeed, it seems that the last time Parliament dealt with the criminalisation of the purchase of sex more than ten years ago. Further regulation was also introduced, i.e. it has been considered that what is related to the purchase of sex as a problematic phenomenon is particularly relevant to minors and issues related to pimping and trafficking in human beings. On the other hand, as the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Constitutional Committee have pointed out, it is very difficult to regulate the general criminalisation of the purchase of sex in the hallmarks, but these mild phenomena can be tackled. This has been studied quite a lot in previous years, but during the autumn we are still conducting an evaluation at the Ministry of Justice as to whether there is a need for a reassessment of this in the light of the experience of other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, when the representative of the government party asks a question, a quick question, I will also give a supplementary question to the representatives of the opposition. I would therefore ask the opposition, if anyone wishes to ask a supplementary question, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u87	Mr President! The debate on the criminalisation of the purchase of sex in the world is quite extensive and the positive results that Sweden claims to receive have been denied many times among the researchers. Today, instead of criminalising the purchase of sex, the trend has been towards de-crimination, which means recognising that sex workers are human beings in the same way as others and can therefore be regulated by the same legislation as other people. At present, this is the view of a significant number of international organisations — Amnesty took this position some time ago — many HIV and AIDS organisations, because they are concerned about the rights of sex workers and feel that the criminalisation of the purchase of sex is a key factor undermining the rights of sex workers. My question now is: will the Minister also take account of the results of the international research field in this report?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u88	Mr President! Mr Kontula has a very good question. This will be taken into account. The international research data tells us exactly the same message, which was very much emphasised here by the representative. So let us not be too black and white about this kind of phenomenon, where the self-determination of a person already in accordance with the Constitution is that he is permitted to make a very long decision about his own actions, provided that there is no coercion, trafficking in human beings or other vague phenomena or crime or some related matters. That is why it must be clear that, in principle, it is also the constitutional rights of people to conclude agreements and also to engage in business activities. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u89	Next question, Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u90	Mr President! The government deserves to be commended for finally implementing the reform of family leave, which is the long-term goal of the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u91	Mr President! We have started a rather large volume of family leave reform work this week by consulting 22 different bodies with responsible ministers, many of whom were backed up by a large number of other interest groups represented by individual bodies. We heard a great deal of views and a lot of hopes and expectations about how family leave should be reformed. We are also sending an invitation to all the parliamentary parties these days. We also want to hear from Parliament your views on what kind of reform should be pursued in the framework conditions set by the economy and the freedom of choice of families and diverse families for this system, while maintaining that the child can continue to be cared for at home until the age of three. I fully agree with the questioner that part-time work must be a key element of cultural change in the everyday lives of parents of young children, often with a very strong on- or off-tone. And with regard to the model of the coalition that you have presented, no party model is clearly the model of this reform. We're gonna make a government model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u92	On this issue too, if a supplementary question is to be asked, please stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u93	Irade the Talman! It is great that the government, after two years of opposition pressure, is now taking action on this issue, because this is important for equality and also for equality in working life as a whole and, consequently, for Finland's competitiveness. Now the objectives of this reform are somewhat unclear, and when the government statements on this issue suggest that perhaps this is not the most ambitious model at the moment, I ask: can you think of a model that gives clear quotas to fathers and mothers to ensure that fathers also take advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u94	Mr President! If you, in the opposition, feel well that all this is thanks to you, then of course it is appropriate. For myself, however, it is perhaps more important than to think about who is responsible or who is finally here at last, that there are sufficiently clear tunes for reform and that we are able, above all, to simplify and make the model more flexible from the point of view of different life situations. As far as the quotas you are referring to are concerned, there are already those in the current model. In fact, over the last few years we have increased the proportion of fathers to 54 days of quota allocated to their father, only to him. And it is quite clear that encouragement, in one way or another, for a child to have the right to have a time together with both parents, which inevitably also affects the equality of working life, is one of the pre-conditions of the government and the aim of this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u95	Next question, Mr. Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u96	Mr President! Network security and information leaks speak of the people. Last week and in the recent past there have been data leaks where other personal data have leaked to the public besides the name. Name and personal identity code is a combination that allows you to visit several online services. This is not intended to be used for networking initially and presents significant security risks. In this respect, identification should somehow be changed and developed in a more secure direction. How could the use of strong electronic identification be promoted? There is cooperation here with the various players, but how can it be speeded up? And how can public confidence in electronic commerce be enhanced? Today, all services are available online and they are wanted to be further developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u97	Mr President! Mr Jalonen is asking a very important question. More than ever, our services are in electronic form, and the transparency and confidentiality of information is a key player in promoting digital services. The Government has developed an information security strategy for Finland that promotes information security expertise, access to secure products and improves cooperation between authorities. One entity is also the promotion of electronic identification. This has created a trust network in 2016 which will enable confidence between operators in identification to be promoted. At present, Parliament is also dealing with the issue of price regulation in relation to initial recognition, which hopefully creates the possibility for the market to create other electronic identification tools. I therefore hope that Parliament will be able to move forward quickly so that we can have confidence in e-commerce.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u98	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u99	Mr President! Thank you. To the State Audit Office on this annual report. Unlike these reports in general, this is quite dramatic to read. There are some comments in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative field. The Finnish Immigration Service has received a negative statement of legality regarding expenditure and the lack of corrections for the financial year. It is not surprising that the Finnish Immigration Service has been criticised for its obligation to report and its internal controls have been found inadequate. As far as reception is concerned, the Finnish Immigration Service does not seem to have anything to do with the taxpayer, and it seems that the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have not been up to their responsibilities in this regard either. We have heard news of millions of dollars being made by receiving companies, such as Luona Oy, and this is a completely irresponsible waste of taxpayers' money. Mr President! We can also read in the annual report that there are reproaches in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. There are a number of points at the Finnish Transport Agency. I very much hope that Minister Berner will ensure that these shortcomings have been remedied in the next year's annual report. Nor will the Ministry of Labour and the Minister of Labour get away with this with clean papers, because more than one item contains reproaches, red markings on several points, three by my calculations. I hope that the Minister of Labour will also be up-to-date with his duties and will ensure that comments from this administrative sector also leave the next year's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u100	Mr President! After all, the National Audit Office was transferred to the Parliament at the time because the Agency can do its work independently and also act as a real administrator of the government and its subordinate ministries and officials. And I must say that, in my opinion, the Agency, by its own work, has secured this independence. It goes very carefully and thoroughly through the activities of the entire state group, and the Agency has developed in the right direction: it is no longer a verification of the validity of individual receipts alone, but rather more a review of how these real results are being achieved in the agencies' activities. From this point of view, the Agency has also become an important partner for the various ministries and central agencies, whose advice provides guidance on the development of activities. The Parliamentary Audit Committee will go through this report carefully and listen to experts in this context and in this way ensure that when the report and annual report contain findings concerning the activities of different government entities, they will also lead to adequate decision-making here in Parliament, which maintains good governance and leads to the development of Finnish administration. So the debate which is now and will be held here will be taken into account in the work of the Audit Committee and in the forthcoming report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u101	Mr President! Indeed, as this report says, the work of the National Audit Office has been comprehensive and, in many ways, researching the state finances. I noticed here the interesting fact that the National Audit Office draws attention to the fact that we are now moving strongly into the digital age, which means that almost all available information, which is also being processed by Parliament, is available online. Things are happening so quickly on the information networks today, and it is right that attention is being paid here to the fact that the control agency must also be able to do more and the state finances must be able to serve and produce information quickly, for example, for the purposes of parliamentary decision-making. After all, the state economy works in such a way that, for example, money markets and interest rates markets, and generally all markets, everything happens on a very fast schedule, which means that the timely, correct information coming from it will also be available to Parliament and to all state authorities, which will enable them to make the right decisions. Quite rightly, this robot draws attention to it, and I have no doubt that the Government Audit Office and the Audit Committee of this House and the whole Parliament will carefully examine the content of this report. I hope that progress will be made on this. Mr President! It is absolutely essential that high-speed telecommunications networks are created throughout Finland, because the state authorities operate, of course, here in the capital region mainly, but they exist across Finland, and there are authorities in very many municipalities, for example, which do not yet have a fast fibre network. It weakens the flow of information and, above all, weakens the position of these people compared to the rest of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u102	Mr President! I hope this reads more people than there are at the moment in this Chamber, because there are really good assessments and conclusions and critical points here. Yes, I would recommend reading this. For example, on page 89, I found information on development cooperation funds, and when the Finns have often spoken of helping where there is a problem, so that there is not so much immigration and movement in the countries of origin — precisely this unnecessary departure in the sense that there is no conflict in that country — and telling us how effectively development aid has worked, it has been said little that it is going to work there. A few days ago I told you about the articles I've seen about Finnfund's investments, that there were some vagues, and I heard about that too, well, don't you talk about getting involved. However, it is stated here on page 89 that 'the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have an information system at its disposal which would enable it to compile and systematically structure the results of development cooperation in support of its impact and to report on the results of the work'. In other words, it is pointed out that there should be some kind of measure in order to effectively control development funds. Yes, I would say that at this point at the latest we must understand that if we do not have the tools with which we follow the spending of money, then it may be so that we throw the money into Kankkula well. - And I'll be in that toilet when I see that time runs out. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u105	Mr President! A few excerpts from the VTV report. "The Audit Office shall continue to take into account the non-compliances with Negative legality declarations generally concerned some aspects of economic management or identified procedures. It cannot therefore be concluded from the negative legality statements that the State’s financial management would not meet the legal requirement imposed on it or that the negative legality statement would be the result of an abuse of state resources. However, negative legality must always be regarded as a serious matter for the financial management of the Agency in question." Internal control remains limited: "Access rights should be more effective in limiting the creation of high-risk work combinations and excessive job profiles. This requires the development of internal control of the user authorisation management process. Application controls should guide the correct handling of the case so that expenditure is handled in accordance with the State Budget Regulation. Controls on the completeness, accuracy and contract targeting of invoicing must also be improved. The responsibility for the adequacy and adequacy of the internal control of the information systems used in customer service processes and the related information security is not clear at present. The responsibilities of internal control should be sufficiently clarified." And a little bit of corporate aid: "The audit of business aid examined whether there were legal provisions in the application, award, payment and control of use It was also examined whether the internal control of business subsidies was properly organised. On the basis of the audit, a number of individual non-legislative procedures and shortcomings in internal control were identified." "State aid is necessary if the project could not be carried out State aid is not necessary if the applicant for State aid is able to finance the project or activity through own financing or through other financing equivalent to equity financing." — In the book on aid for wood production, the final state aid for medical helicopter support and aid for the development of enterprises, for example. They can all be followed. And then for the reason of the Finnish Immigration Service: "Internal control of the reception process of the Finnish Immigration Service has not been organised as required by the State Budget Regulation. The criteria for compensation under agreements between the Finnish Immigration Service and reception centres vary significantly by contract. These agreements also contain conflicting, incomplete and interpretative contractual provisions. The Finnish Immigration Service's procedures for paying reimbursement of reception costs are in some respects inconsistent. The substantively variable contractual provisions and the heterogeneous compensation process expose errors at different stages, and the different procedures also make monitoring more difficult. Weaknesses were also noted in the content of the annual reports of the reception centres and in the procedures for monitoring assets acquired from state funds." Here are a few, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u106	Mr President! The conclusions of the Annual Report of the National Audit Office are particularly timely and are precisely those that fit this situation. They are therefore digitalisation, structural reforms, social and regional reform and innovation. Tytti Yli-Vikari, Director-General of VTV, highlights the problems of policy and preparation of civil servants in this audit report. Yli-Viikari notes that the current policy no longer allows for time-consuming preparation of civil servants, and a direct quote: "The Finnish culture of action, with its assessments and measurements, encourages the pursuit of certainty rather than renewed risk-taking. Risks should therefore be identified and an acceptable level set for them, allowing risk management to act more courageously." What we need is a bolder, more innovative and forward-looking action. Over-Viikari also points out that comprehensive risk management would be supported by the Government's own risk management policy. Digitalisation: Digitalisation involves more and more parties in the provision of services than the state actors. In particular, the responsibilities regarding operational security and information security are not fully clear in the administration. In particular, if future reforms are to be considered, where the ict is the decisive factor, much more attention must be paid to this. And then, thirdly, these procurements: Promoting innovation through public procurement has the greatest potential, as according to the Audit Office, the total annual public procurement estimate in Finland is up to EUR 35 billion. For example: The City of Oulu’s purchases amount to half a billion per year. But this was new information that EUR 35 billion are procurements in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u107	Mr President! The annual reports of the National Audit Office are always very good to read, and here is a lot of information for each of us. In line with established practice, the Audit Office is monitoring the measures it has adopted in its reports to Parliament, and a number of points are raised here. It is mentioned, among other things, that "economics and productivity are reported fairly well, but shortcomings in setting targets make performance guidance more difficult". And it is true that objectives must be set in such a way that they can then be followed. We must therefore pay attention to budgetary compliance. Social and regional reform is dealt with here from the point of view of central government finances and attention is paid to the essential risks of implementation and to the need for sub- and intermediate targets to achieve the savings target, i.e. they must be adhered to. In the opinion of the Audit Office, the savings target of the social welfare reform is very ambitious in terms of size and timescale, as has already been demonstrated by a number of contributions and discussions. According to the Agency's opinion, it is possible that it may also reduce the range and level of services, which means that prioritising must be possible, yet the services must be maintained in good and diverse ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u108	Mr President! Admittedly, the wind power support package mentioned by Congressman Leena Mere has proved to be expensive, but who could have guessed at that moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u111	Mr President! For years now, as a very close and deep follow-up to development policy, and also as a guest in a very many developing countries, I wonder what information Mr Mere's speech refers to when he claims that a large part of the development funds go to the Kankkula well. These reports and the results are quite different. By the way, it's worth going over, Mr. Meren. Poverty has been drastically reduced through development cooperation, millions of children have reached school, the water and sanitation situation has been improved and many developing countries have also risen from poverty to middle income countries. Each project will report carefully on them ex ante and ex post, performance indicators and monitoring will be developed continuously. I do not think it is fair to say that all or most of the funding would be wasted. And with this development cooperation, it is precisely the root causes that most parties, most groups in this House, support. It is the root cause of refugeeism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u112	Mr President! In this report by the National Audit Office, in the annual report, the Ministry of Defence's administrative sector is admirable to follow up, as in most years before, on the fact that there are sufficient results targets and correct and adequate data that have been mentioned without comment, i.e. things have been done well there. But I would also like to draw attention to this other important area, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration, to this development cooperation issue, which had already been discussed here. This report itself points out the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' internal control in that development cooperation objectives should be sharpened. This is certainly more about reporting than what good things have been achieved in development cooperation. As such, this report points to the need to focus more strictly on certain limited areas of development cooperation. Surely it is true that, unfortunately, now that the sector too has been reduced, we should look very carefully at the areas where development cooperation is being given. I myself have had the opportunity to familiarise myself with some development projects in Nepal, for example, where children were trained, forest management was guided and some other clear targets were given, such as clean water in the form of a well for villagers and so on. Assistance of this kind was provided. These are certainly the priorities that should be addressed and, of course, this reporting also draws attention to the fact that these good things will then come to the attention of both our representatives and others. As such, even when we are still talking about development cooperation, the whole of which is considered to be development cooperation, perhaps in the future this crisis management should also be taken under this development cooperation flag more stringently, because:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u113	Mr President! Congressman Paloniemi told me to get to know these. I really did get to know you. Finnwatch — was 5.9., there were extensive media articles about Finnfund’s investments. This is a non-governmental organisation of this kind, so that I did not invent these from my own head, nor did I say that all development cooperation is ineffective. I said that the Finns have also been prepared to cut and reduce development cooperation and to question its effectiveness. It is not that when I give you the euro, it is always used effectively. I have to be able to see what it's used for. It is stated here that information systems must be developed in such a way that they can be used effectively to compile the results of development cooperation — well, these results cannot be compiled — and to report and develop their activities. If you can’t put things together properly and you can’t properly control them, you don’t know. In that sense, I do not think it is appropriate to belittle the facts in any way. I really am familiar with these things, but I thank you anyway. I took this information from this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u114	Mr President! With a brief comment on this issue of development aid and its focus on it: it is precisely for this reason that it is important to address the potential misuse and inefficiency of development aid in the use of its money and to find out that, first of all, the money we spend would go to the things we want and to the right people who need it and that, in other words, the Finnish taxpayers could have the certainty that our tax resources in the world will be focused on the things they are intended to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u115	Mr President! I would also like to remind you that a third part of the evaluation of our development organisations has just been out of the oven, so to speak. It evaluated a very large number of development organisations precisely on the basis of the fact that it was considered where there is a place to repair projects, how effective they are and how to demonstrate the benefits of these projects in developing countries. I can also confirm that Finnfund's major evaluation will still be carried out during this term of government. This evaluation is precisely what needs to be done so that we can answer more and more questions in the name of development policy and development cooperation. It is, of course, right to ask questions, but I am now trying to convince you that we are doing a very good job of getting control and efficiency into and out of the language so that everyone understands what that development cooperation will accomplish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u116	Mr. Speaker! I would just like to confirm what Mr Paloniemi said — Mr Paloniemi is a long-standing development partner and a professional in the industry — that there is no misunderstanding that I would at least disagree with this. It is by means of these reports that this control is carried out and that we ensure that development cooperation goes to these right targets, especially now, when resources are tight and we have not been able to allocate as much money as we had before, that the use of these funds goes to the right places as targetedly and carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u117	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to support Mrs Paloniemi in this matter. This government has done a good job. First, Mr Toivakan, since then, under the leadership of Minister Mykkänen, has been specifically gutted, where grants have been granted and what effectiveness they have. Attention has also been paid to the backgrounds of assistant organisations and so on and so on and then to what kind of expertise we have in Finnish society and how we can export that Finnish expertise as part of development cooperation. Even when I was studying in Tanzania and Kenya, I saw that when we get a well in the village, girls and women in particular get to do the right job and do not have to go on a water-seeking trip.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u118	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u119	Mr President! Children under 18 years of age are placed in foster families. Those investing in the needs of the child recommend that the second foster parent stay at least for the first investment year of the child. This is, as a rule, always in the best interests of the child: investors recommend, based on the needs of the child, that one of the foster parents stay at home to care for the child at least for the first investment year. However, under the current legislation, a family carer is only entitled to child care leave if the child is less than three years old. From the child’s point of view, however, the most important thing would be that the parent has the opportunity to stay at home to care for the child, regardless of the age of the child. We, the signatories of the bill, propose that the right to child care leave be extended in such a way that, on the basis of Article 16 of the Family Care Act, a child’s dependent parent is entitled to leave after two years of child care leave, regardless of the age of the child. As a justification for extending the right to child care leave, we propose the following: "Hospitalisation is always a last resort measure of child protection, and it will only be carried out if the health and safety of the child is thought to be seriously compromised in the biological family. Many children who have been taken into care have experienced very heavy things, which are often reflected in the need for special support. A child who has been placed as a parent may have experienced many forms of abuse and neglect during his life, and his special needs for support can be very great." In the early stages of the investment, it is therefore particularly important that the family has sufficient time for the child and the opportunity to respond to the child’s individual needs. Moving into a new family for a child is a big change in itself. It takes time to adapt to the new family and environment. The time and support given at the initial stage of the investment may significantly prevent the need for further and possibly higher support. There is a great shortage of foster parents all the time, despite the fact that family care is, according to the Child Welfare Act, the first and primary form of care in foster care. The current situation in which a foster parent is not entitled to child care leave for a child over 3 years of age does not support foster parenting for older children from challenging situations. Often it is difficult to find foster families for these very children. The extension of the right to child care leave to children of all ages would also contribute to the placement of a young person or a group of siblings in family care. The legal amendment will also increase equality between children placed in family care and get a foster family. Investment in child protection requires, as a general rule, a foster parent to stay at home in order to meet the specific needs of the early stage of the child’s investment, as I have already said. Without the right to child care leave, a foster parent may even have to resign from work and leave his/her professional career and his/her wage income and, consequently, his/her pension income. Thus, becoming a family carer can entail a high financial risk that family care is always continued for the time being. Depending, among other things, on child care, the investment can end considerably earlier than expected in family care. The situation is disproportionate and unfair to the financial situation of the family carer. Yet, for many foster parents it is parenthood, which means that they are parents of the children who are placed in love and with a great heart and do not always want to think of the job as a profession or a source of income. The additional cost of the change we are proposing to the municipalities is limited. The headage nurse is already paid an increased care fee. With the extension of the right to child care leave, the number of full-time family carers may increase, resulting in higher costs for the allowance. At the same time, however, the number of family investments is increasing, which in turn means a reduction in the cost of institutional care for children. The change in the employer's costs would not increase much, as care leave for family carers is almost all unpaid leave. We therefore propose that Chapter 4 of the Employment Contracts Act be amended to read as follows: "Family leave,3§,Hospital leave :The worker has the right to have a child who lives permanently in his or her household until the child reaches However, the child’s parent’s right to child care leave will continue until two years after the child’s adoption, at most until the child starts school. On the basis of Article 16 of the Family Care Act and Article 16 of the Family Care Act, the foster parent is entitled to two years of child care leave after the placement of the child, regardless of the age of the child placed.”
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u120	Mr President! Family is the first thing for all of us and the core thing, and having loving parents is the starting point of everything. However, things are not always so cheerful, and in cases where parents are unable to care for their own children, ways must be sought. Children's investment is one way, that last way, just as Mrs Paloniemi, the author of the initiative, described. These investments are also quite expensive for municipalities when they occur. That is why municipalities must always strive to invest in preventive work, to identify problems in good time and to be able to deal with problems in good time and to provide assistance to families there. But when these investments come, the key is that they have loving parents, those foster parents there to take care of the children. These are not simple things ever. It is a tough place for a child, it is a big change, and it also requires a great deal from those parents who take investment children into their own family. It is therefore very legitimate to change the law in this direction, as Mrs Paloniemi suggests, that care leave should also be available to people over three years of age, because in very many cases it is a child placed over three years of age. In this case, when there are many of these factors for change, age alone is not the only factor in which there must be more of that time with the child. As I referred to these costs, it is also essential from the point of view of costs that we should be able to deal with the child there, that the ark is rolled as quickly as possible, and, in this case, that presence is necessary, so I warmly support the initiative taken by Mrs Paloniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-28-ps-95.u121	Mr President! The initiative sounds well-founded and necessary. Sometimes, when these good legal initiatives are read and listened to, I wonder how such a failure can exist at the moment and why this has not already been dealt with. In other words, the world is not completely ready for legislation either. I very much hope that this bill, or at least parts of it, will end up in one way or another, i.e., even if it may not be the case that it should be taken regardless of age, it would at least be stretched in such a way that it does not end in three years, but would continue for example for five or seven years, or how it is now considered to be good. In any case, this is a good idea and I hope that this will be considered seriously.
