ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Administrative Committee must deliver an opinion. The debate on this subject will take place until 3.30 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 3.30 p.m., we shall proceed to the next item in the order of business, i.e. paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u2	Mr President! The present proposal is intended to contribute to the smooth implementation of the regional and social reform. The proposal extends by one year the validity of the law temporarily restricting certain social and health care legal acts of municipalities and the law on the extension of the cooperation obligations of the Paras-Framework Act. The extension of the laws may affect the fact that before the reform enters into force, municipalities and joint municipal authorities will not take legal action which would unduly restrict the ability of future provinces to meet their legal obligations. In addition, the continuation of the cooperation obligations under the Paras Framework Act is intended to prevent the dismantling of operational cooperation structures for a period of one year. The two laws contained in the proposal are now central to the proposal for a temporary limitation of municipal social security measures. The Act addresses two important issues: the outsourcing of social services and investment in construction. This law was first enacted last year when it was apparent that, as the social welfare reform approached some municipalities and joint municipal authorities, the production of their own social and health services was being prepared by private service providers through very long-term contracts. It was also known that high-cost building investments were starting in both medical districts and municipalities. Those agreements concluded and planned in municipalities could have been of up to 15 years' duration and some of them covered practically all municipal social welfare and primary health care services. At the time, there were about 20 municipalities that had concluded horizontal agreements. In addition, there were other outsourcing plans. The limitation law of that time was only intended to restrict agreements which would have a clear impact on the functioning of the future provinces. Therefore, the law currently in force concerns the largest outsourcing agreements, those which account for more than 50% of social work and have a duration of more than five years. These agreements required the inclusion of a condition of termination which allows the province to terminate the contract with 12 months’ notice. Mr President! In our view, those laws have contributed very well to the objectives set and thus, in particular, to the extension of the operating obligations of the Paras-Framework Act. That is why the new version, the government proposal before us, does not propose any substantive changes, just an extension of one year. In the case of the restriction law, however, the objectives have not been fully achieved as expected. It is true that large-scale outsourcing agreements were initially concluded in only a few municipalities, but now that the entry into force of the social welfare reform has been postponed for one year with the Government's summer solutions, we know that it has launched a large cluster of outsourcing planning in the municipalities. The aim was to do this in a way that was not bitten by the provisions of the current law. An example of this is the outsourcing of social services in the Western Nordic region. By linking the services of municipalities and hospital districts together, in that case in the West North, a whole of which was clearly beyond what had been thought of when the law was enacted, but also from other countries there has been considerable information on outsourcing plans. The information provided suggests that the current 50% limit is too high and it is therefore proposed to reduce it to 30%. At the same time, the text of the law is clarified to reflect the purpose of the law, so that, if outsourcing contracts of more than 30% are to be envisaged, there must also be no liability for the use of the terms of termination attached to the contract for the province or the municipalities. Many have asked if that is a 30 - percent limit. There must be a limit, because some of the service contracts are justified on the one hand, especially for customers, but also for the province. Therefore, smaller outsourcing agreements, such as those related to service housing, make sense to continue to be possible. Building investments were thought to start at less than EUR 1 billion when the law on restrictions was adopted last summer. But that's not what happened. Hospital districts have launched construction projects costing some EUR 1.6 billion over EUR 5 million and municipalities have also launched EUR 0.5 billion. However, the legal criteria, the justification for the investment and the need for a service structure have not allowed sufficient influence to be given to the construction structure and the future provinces. Of course, without the limitation of the law that is still in force, many projects would have been even more extensive and some of the projects have already ended up being interrupted at the planning stage, partly because of the restrictions on investment. A couple of applications for permits to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have been rejected and some have been changed in the course of processing. However, the Ministry has a strong understanding that the application procedure, despite the large number of permits for investment, has led to good sparring at the application stage and thus to more careful planning for public construction. But here too, Mr President, the government has found that the criteria of the law are rather lax. Therefore, now that the social works boom is in place, more stringent criteria are being set out for new start-up building investments, i.e. new permits now being requested, once the law enters into force. Investment must be necessary and urgent in order to be authorised for two years now before the responsibilities of organisation and hence the burden of buildings are passed on to the provinces. The law also allows for construction projects that are necessary, for example at the request of the supervisory authorities, without authorisation. Because of the moisture damage, the mold problems discussed last week in this Chamber, such situations have already been seen and will certainly be seen. Other construction projects can, according to our assessment, wait for the transfer of responsibility to the provinces. Mr President! The last few months have shown the need for this proposal. The implementation of the regional and social reform requires that all parties act responsibly. The proposed law highlights this and imposes some constraints on the decision-making of municipalities and joint municipal boards to help achieve the major objectives of the reform for the benefit of all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u3	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this very necessary legislation on the restriction of social exclusion. There seems to be a panic on the municipal court now, and it leads to many kinds of social confusion. Many municipalities have ended up outsourcing their social and health services to health waste, most recently in Meri-Lap. Health companies also make systematic offers for purchasing municipal social services properties to ensure their future market position. The aim of municipal decision-makers in these outsourcings may be to maintain the services in their own municipality, but the bill to be paid to taxpayers can grow large and the planning and organisation of services in future provinces becomes more difficult. Last seen an unimaginable company, Siikalatva Municipality was planning to become the Bbulvani of Meelä and start attracting Oulu-based customers to Meeläinen in Oulu. Siikalatta’s motive must have been to get a discount on the bee’s bill, and the bee would have been able to betonize its positions while waiting for the social welfare reform. However, the City of Oulu challenged the matter, as the fear is a big extra bill. I would like to thank the Ministry for its very rapid response to this shady game of Siikalatva and Bee. The Ministry took a fast and firm line when it said that the action was not in line with the law. As a tax payer and municipal decision-maker in Oulu, I am grateful for this prompt approach. Mr President! This law on the restriction of social exclusion, which is now being discussed in the referral, is therefore absolutely necessary, but it is not enough to calm the situation in the country. The government would now need leadership and a proposal for social reform, which will create certainty and stability rather than uncertainty. However, the central-driven government has not yet been able to do this. The centre is in charge of the government and the preparation of social welfare reform, so you have a big responsibility for the current chaotic situation and the tangled reforms. The city centre also has a simple majority in Siikalatva municipal council, for example. In the wake of this confusion, the question arises whether even the locals in the centre do not believe in the social welfare reform proposal. The Prime Minister, too, has been horrifying the ongoing development in which private social workers take over the market. It is good that you have awakened to the gravity of the situation in the government, but why have you originally created this situation and created a basis for social confusion? Why have you advocated a reform of social security, which seems to have been the main objective of creating a market for these same social security companies? Mr President! In order to calm the situation, the government should now abandon its business reform and move back to the original objectives of the social welfare reform, i.e. reducing health inequalities, from one door to another reducing bounces and curbing the rise in costs, and recalling those integration targets, which started with transport. Instead of expensive and uncertain privatisation adventures, democratic provinces need genuine power to decide how services are organised, how the division of labour between hospitals is carried out and who provides the services. The primary objective of the social welfare reform must be to ensure quality and equal services for citizens, not to open up the market to the profit-making interests of health companies. Mr President! The timetable for the Sote reform is stretching and pounding. The Länsimetrok was completed before the government could bring about a constitutional social act. The government should listen to more experts, and now I am not talking about lobbyists from health companies. Problems and shortcomings do not enjoy parliamentary confidence, they do not have the prerequisites for progress and their restoration creates confusion, creates uncertainty in the municipal sphere and, above all, delays the achievement of high-quality social welfare reform. Uncertainty — it's poison. The stalling of the social welfare reform already causes problems and disrupts the service system for a long time. The problems will be long and expensive. Mr President! The government now has a responsibility to calm the situation. The Social Security Act is a valid emergency measure, but the underlying cause is uncertainty in the municipalities due to the government's social confusion. Unfortunately, this bill will not correct it. Return the social security to its original integration objectives. Re-establish public health as the main objective of the reform. Call for parliamentary preparation. Listen to the experts, and for a moment, forget about the political transition. Together, the 100-year-old Finland is undergoing a social welfare reform that takes time, is of high quality and cost-effective and does not distinguish people according to the size of the wallet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u4	Maybe at this point, we'll have a short debut. Not for very long, because there have been requests for speeches and they are also given room for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u5	Mr President! I would like to point out that the social welfare reform is being carried out because the market is getting its hands on it. The social welfare reform is carried out because there are strong shoulders, a strong public body is responsible for providing social and health care services so that everyone receives uniform, effective services produced with tax resources. The fact that the previous governments have not been able to carry out social reform has led to this current situation that more than 70 per cent of families with children in Helsinki have insurance. People are in line. Money's what you get. Those with money go to private. Municipalities outsource their services. It is important that this government reform of social security should move forward. And it certainly does not want companies to play the first violin, but they are involved in the orchestra in such a way that the province is a conductor. We need private service providers, but the public must respond. And this bill, which the Archipelago and the government have now brought here, is important if we are to prevent the total outsourcing, [The President knocks ] investments which are not:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u8	Mr President! As I listened to Mr Sarkomaa, I thought that the Coalition Party had finally come to the same line with the rest of Parliament as the social welfare reform. Let us hope that this will be welcomed there in the centre with great joy and that we will actually have the kind of social reform that will enable us to get the market to grips with it so that freedom of choice does not lead to an excessive expansion of the field. Mr President! I'm sure there's something we need to do now. But now that the government has sworn its confidence — not in the name of regulation — in its deregulation, we have to ask how this happened. The regions are sending a strong message to us decision-makers, because they do not trust in social welfare reform. This is now a sign to us that there is no trust, and on the basis of trust we want to take forward the social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u9	Mr President! Thank you for this presentation. For ten years, I've been following this process of social work. It has been sad when experts have wiped the table during several governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u10	Mr President! Yes, it seems that not only does a person who is at the heart of the war there, but it is also a business there. And it is very good now to bring this government proposal, which tries to limit the fact that municipalities are making outsourcing and extra social investments. So you want to limit them. I would like to ask the Minister: we have a competition law here in Parliament at the moment. It's in the Economic Committee somewhere on the shelf. After all, when there is such a suggestion in the Competition Act that when big players do business transactions, then there is no need to inform or report them at all, in what way does this competition law relate to future social protection and where is it? It hasn't been processed. The Finns have left a different opinion, but it rests somewhere on the shelf of the Economic Committee. Why did I see, and what was that competition law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u11	Mr President! I believe that this bill is necessary and appropriate, as it seeks to curb the unrest that has now spread and continues to spread on the social field, and this is just one of the consequences of the mess of the social dialogue and the length of the timetable that the government has to thank itself for. Comprehensive outsourcing agreements would hamper planning of regional services, potentially entailing high costs and could undermine this so-called freedom of choice, which the government says it will increase with its proposal. And I, too, was surprised to hear Mr Sarkomaa speak, just as Mr Salonen did. It sounded good in itself, but it does not correspond at all to what the government is doing with this proposal: it does not strengthen the role of the public, but rather weakens and is being marketed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u12	Mr President! It was good that Mr Puska gave a strong, critical speech here. It was not a bulldozer. It was the reality to which the government has pushed this situation. Now I am particularly surprised that, following the outsourcing of the Westbed, Minister Petteri Orpo has very strongly gone on to criticise this — the same thing that has actually been called for by the Coalition Party over the last period, namely that private tax havens, or corporate waste, are being driven into a private monopoly. Our health, our tax resources, makes profits, and they are not even taxed. Isn't Caruna's example of the privatisation of a regional monopoly already ringing bells in the assembly? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u13	Mr President! Now, after these last major outsourcing decisions, I see that citizens are beginning to have a very big concern about whether health services will survive even as they stand. What is happening now seems that no one is able to control this machine that has been launched. In my opinion, the Minister's presentation still left open the question of whether the right conditions for this bill in itself are sufficient to maintain this steering force and not to enter the great unknown when this new government model is implemented. Before and after the summer, experts have come to the Audit Committee with very worrying information, where more experts say that these government savings targets are in great danger that they will not materialise, but rather that the costs will increase. This example of the West Basin shows in practice that solutions are being made for this risk of cost growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u14	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Essayah, Mr Rehula and Mr Sarkkinen, who opened this debate, and then we will go to the list of speakers for a moment and then we will continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u15	Mr President! This extension of the restriction law is now an emergency brake in a situation where we feel that the whole social security field is a mess in Finland, and one cannot blame municipal decision-makers who panic in these decisions when they do not know the direction in which this whole entity is being taken and, on the other hand, fear that health stations and also basic health care are disappearing. This morning, perhaps the most serious messages came from the Security of Supply Agency, which is afraid that we will also be less prepared for crisis and emergency situations as a result of this social security reform. Instead of taking a stand on this form, they were concerned that, as such, this will endanger patient safety in Finland. They specifically hoped that these same criteria for private and public operators would be achieved quickly. When the government did last December
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u16	Congressman Essayah, you've taken one minute and 18 seconds. We have a one-minute deadline. From now on, I will have to interrupt the speaker with my own speech if the speech exceeds one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u17	Mr President! Through this proposal, which aims to limit the legal activities of municipalities and joint municipal authorities, the Government has the aim of taking one corner of this situation, which the opposition has painted black, to ensure that nothing such as strong public service defenders and advocates of such a thing happens in that field — even in those municipalities where, for example, there are strong public service defenders and defenders — that we should go and make complete decisions. Secondly, those who accuse the government of doing and partly of not doing so because the preparation of the law has progressed on this timetable: do not demand any further parliamentary preparation, and do not demand anything new that is certain to go beyond this parliamentary term. We're on our way to the crisis phase if we don't get the laws together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u18	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal is unfortunately necessary. We are in a situation where there is a demand for an emergency brake. Mr President! Experts do not support the Government’s view that the Government’s social welfare proposal strengthens integration or reduces cost growth. On the contrary: service chains are fragmented and costs are threatened with increasing. This creates uncertainty around Finland. Unfortunately, the province is not a conductor in the government's plans for social reform. The regions are not given autonomy to decide how much services are bought from outside and how much is produced themselves, and not even on the administrative model. Outsourcing targets are even set for special medical care, which threaten to jeopardise the realisation of public special medical care and emergency services. Mr President! Reform is needed, but we need a reform that strengthens our service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u19	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u20	Mr President! It is, of course, a pleasure to see through this debate that the government proposal has strong parliamentary support. I thought that, in this speech, I would perhaps take a broader view of this multi-disciplinaryism, which is basically the issue of the cross-pressure of private and public service provision. I think that competition is in principle good, but in the future a strong organiser, a province, will create a framework and rules for responsible corporate citizenship, while at the same time tightening different producers in a more cost-effective and customer-friendly direction. And at the same time, we think that you cannot have everything at once, not now and not now. We are in the process of making a system that takes a huge leap towards multi-disciplinaryism. It will start gradually one foot with the provinces from 2020. I understand that large companies are now seeking positions by buying real estate and, elsewhere, by expanding the interpretation of existing legislation. I'm interested in market positions. But it is not sustainable if, at the same time as the historical reform that all Finnish decision-makers want, the public authorities have to race with business. At the same time, it makes no sense for the decision-maker to limit and limit the current situation, when we should all use our energies together to make future decisions, which also have a place for companies. The municipal decision-makers who are considering the sale of real estate or the outsourcing of services are still at a difficult decision today, perhaps at meetings in different parts of Finland. I encourage myself to think that, since the regional service network will continue to be the main rule of the market, it is clear that the premises and activities of care or primary health care for the elderly will still be of interest to the private producer even after the regional wars have started. And I assure you that the public producer is also of considerable interest in securing local services now and in the future. Mr President! The social reform takes on a lot of the dimensions of social restructuring that our nation would have to face anyway. We may not have been able to justify and deal with this together. The change in the concept of local services, the difficulty of fulfilling the promise of care for the elderly population, the strong involvement of private service providers in the system, urbanisation, technological and medical development — these phenomena are here in any case. Not to mention the fact that we are probably all in favour of simplifying the multi-channel financing model, reducing health inequalities and shifting the focus to primary health care. Mr President! I think that all the uncertainty that I have described — yes — which has been caused by the one-year delay in the field, is a reminder of why the reform now needs to be completed. More than 20 Billion Pots for Vitals
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u21	Mr President! I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister did not respond to any of the concerns expressed here by the representatives. If I noticed correctly, you read the speech written in advance. After all, the idea behind the debate is that representatives can bring their concerns and the Minister will respond to them, and the debate will then move forward. I therefore hope that the Minister will still have the opportunity to answer the questions of the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u22	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health care is done to save the Finnish welfare society, so that we have social and health services, from which the public authorities bear responsibility and which are financed with tax money. But the services can also be provided by private companies. This reform will be carried out in such a way that the public authorities will put the notes and the private companies that will provide the services will comply with the notes. It's a big change to what's right now. After all, the thickness of the bag now determines whether, for example, a pensioner will be able to access services — in Helsinki, for example, Mr Heinäluoma, where you are in the Council. Health centres are not sufficiently drawn. People who have money go to private. We want a stop to this; we want everyone to be equal. I can see that you have not read the bill on social welfare and health care when you make such speeches here. I hope you will join us in bringing this reform forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u23	And we shall move on to the list of speakers, Mr Andersson. — This sitting is carried through in such a way that there is sometimes a debate, not a full hour and a half of the debate. There must be room for well-prepared speeches in the debate, and that is what we are doing here. — Mr Andersson, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u24	Mr President! This proposal is an emergency solution that has been given in a situation where changes affecting the service structure of social welfare and health care in various parts of Finland are being made in a hasty manner, because they want to secure their own local services. This emergency and concern for municipal decision-makers is due only to the exceptionally weak preparation of the government's social and health reform and the uncertainty surrounding the reform as a whole. It is inconceivable that the Prime Minister and the Government of Finland have only, since the decision to outsource Meri-Lap, raised the threat of private monopolies taking over the social field. Both the opposition, the social and health professionals and the medical experts of the assembly and the centre have warned of this particular risk almost throughout this parliamentary term. The opposition warned against the risk of outsourcing such as the West Basin even when the government was discussing changes in the division of work between hospitals. Under the leadership of Juha Rehula, the government introduced special care cuts from other social welfare reforms to the Parliament as a separate entity, and despite the warnings, the government has changed the division of work in hospitals by means of an on-call decree, which concentrates much of the operations on 24-hour emergency services in hospitals and from regional hospitals to central hospitals. It was these changes that were presented that were the basis of the decision taken at Meri-Lap. In practice, the local decision-makers in the city centre decided to support an outsourcing of 1.1 billion to Bees in order to save local services from the surgeries in special medical care run by the central ministers and the government. In other words, apparently health groups have also emerged from the uncertainty of social welfare reform. That is why, according to my own interpretation, large companies have already begun to absorb market shares as widely and as quickly as possible at this stage. This leads to a city like Siikalatva, which is dominated by the centre, even illegal bulvan solutions. Due to the ban on investment in Sote real estate, many municipalities' own new investments in such units as enhanced service housing are also on ice. Private large companies buy units owned by municipalities, which, in fear of real estate risk, municipalities want to get rid of and set up service housing units that then sell their services to municipalities. How concerned is the government that there is now also a structure for care for the elderly that is betonating the service structure on the terms of these large companies? As uncertainty and poor preparation continue, the only solution for the government is to tighten up this law, which restricts outsourcing, in a timely manner. In future, therefore, municipalities must include the condition of dismissal in outsourcing contracts if the value of the contract is more than 30 per cent of the cost of social and health care for the municipality or joint municipal authority. It should be noted, however, that if 30% now becomes as if a new politically accepted normal, pressure and incentives to create joint ventures will continue to be maintained in many places. In spite of this, private operators may continue to enjoy a position in certain services which is not qualitatively different from what is generally meant by a dominant position. It is therefore pointless for the government to try to wash its hands of the situation that has been created by its own poor preparation. The Government, which in the case of Meri-Lap says that it is concerned about private regional monopolies, is now promoting a social welfare model that threatens to bring regional private monopolies everywhere to basic services in Finnish health care and, in part, to special medical care. But in the end, Mr President, I would also like to respond to Mr Sarkomaa's comments on how this proposal or reform, according to him, will be carried out in some way under the conditions of public authority. That is not true. As a result of this reform, the public side will continue to bear all the risks and, according to the law, all the responsibilities and pay for the violins, but the main benefits of the government's social welfare reform are these private health giants. Representative Sarkomaa also claimed that this reform would be carried out on the terms of the low incomes, but in practice, the proposal means that the exclusivity of well-paid patients currently using private services for their own account will be reduced. And when the cost of this reform increases, what will happen to those living in low-income cities, when the provinces do not have their own tax rights; whether there is any alternative but to increase
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u26	The following six speeches are made up of contributions from all the parliamentary groups. After that, we'll go back to a little longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u27	Mr President! The social welfare and health care system in Finland can be compared to the insurance system. The state and the municipalities convince the citizens, and in fact this responsibility for insurance is transferred to the provinces. The services are provided by public and private bodies, and at the moment we clearly have a situation in which the public's interest in own insurance, i.e. the expansion of the insurance base, is increasing. At the moment, the total amount of funding is around EUR 24 billion in the form of a combination of public and private funds, and in fact, insured persons are increasingly paying premiums for this in order to obtain services. The experience of the multi-producer model elsewhere is such that if the organiser does not have a strong responsibility for integration and the tools to coordinate activities, the costs will run away. There is competition between service providers and there may be a fall in the basis for treatment, and then it is inappropriate to target treatment. According to a European consumer survey, Finland’s health care system has the best value for the euro, and yet we are the fourth best in citizens’ assessments of what our health service system is like. In other words, in the reform of regional and social welfare and health care, how we will then be able to improve this system is quite challenging from these points of view. Stronger shoulders are needed, it's clear. Municipalities age especially in sparsely populated areas. The main objective is the integration of services, which has now been mentioned several times in this Chamber, the integration of services into the multi-producer model. Equal services and reduction of health inequalities are needed for citizens, and then they must be of high quality. Now, in the preparation of social services — where mistakes have been made, it must be acknowledged — hospitals are divided into two categories: in practice, private service providers can cut anything and the public has certain limitations. In other words, the on-call and, for example, operational activities are linked together. Legislation restricting the outsourcing and investment of social services has been inadequate and there is now an objective written in the legislation. This is an evolutionary process by correcting those mistakes as quickly as possible, and in this context we have now started very quickly on this path of correction so that we can better manage the costs of our social and health care services. After all, we have an insurance system and there — and I shall return to this again — the organiser must have a clear grasp of how the services are provided. To this end, information systems are needed to control how much service the service provider has provided, who, what price, what quality and what indication, that is, effectiveness. The purpose of this legislation is now to restrict, in an appropriate way, unnecessary competition, which undermines the overall access of citizens to services and which gives us unnecessary services, and which is essential, that we should continue this reform in such a way that the regional economy, too, is taken into account in these reforms — it has been overlooked here — because it brings jobs to the localities and, when health care services remain in the locality, it is also possible to provide local services that are appreciated by the citizens. They feel safe and receive these services in a high quality and with the right indication.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u29	Mr President! This is where Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Andersson made very vigorous speeches and quite forcefully showed the other parties why we are now in this situation. But if you look back a little bit on this social media history,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u32	Mr President! This emergency solution is indeed an indication of how confused the preparation of the war is. In particular, I would like to highlight how the unfortunate timing of the law on emergency services and medical care has caused panic in the municipal field, which also confuses the preparation for the actual social welfare reform. There is also concern about this proposal, but there is also a potential conflict with the constitutional rights of the municipalities. This confused situation also reflects the fact that political parties, including government parties, have not committed themselves to the preparation of social reform, especially at municipal level. I myself am a member of that parliamentary monitoring group, and I must say that it has been rather thin there too, especially with regard to these problems. I think it would now be necessary for you, Minister Saarikko, to have the leadership to overcome these concerns and to have parliamentary parties, as well as municipal parties, committed to this preparation. My question is: how do you now convince the parliamentary parties in this debate — and at the same time the message will certainly also go to the municipal court — that the original objectives of the social services will actually be achieved, i.e. the cost saving of EUR 3 billion and the integration of services and, in particular, ensuring and strengthening the availability and quality of basic services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u33	Mr. Speaker! The estimated savings from the war, 3 billion, are unlikely to materialise. This has been raised in a number of expert discussions and the daily concern about how bottomless the well is will be revealed. It is a good thing that this bill has now been brought, but this will hardly prevent or change what has been done in Meri-Lap and the enormous, great outsourcing that has taken place there, or how, Minister, progress is being made on this issue? The setting up of the Siikalatva municipality and the Meeläinen health centre in Oulu has also been found illegal, which means that things have been quite revolutionary, and when the cat is away, the mice jump on the tables, so how did this happen? The question of patient safety has also been raised here. Whether or not this social welfare reform is now improving patient safety is a matter of concern. There has also been talk of ensuring that all citizens have access to these services. I would ask, for example, about imaging services. It is said that the thickness of a purse would no longer solve the question of being examined, but we all know that, for example, an MRI is not available in Finland today. There is no access to it today, and I dare say that even after the social welfare reform, they will not be able to do so, because they are still valuable images. Who, then, is there to make a delimitation and decide whether to go to further research and, in a way, to special medical care, because we do not have the spike open for everyone? So they're really getting better? This weekend, in the turbulent and squares, I circled around and heard some really nasty stories about not being able to get treatment — there really is no access to treatment. In other words, how do you respond to the people, whether this is really for the citizens, whether a person is at the heart of it, or whether this is purely a business?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u34	Mr President! The law, which is today, now under discussion, is certainly necessary, but it is probably necessary to ask the whole Chamber, but in particular Minister Saariko: why is the need for this growing? The further the preparation of the social reform has gone, the greater the need for this law, and my question is: why? Why is uncertainty increasing, even though it should probably be the other way around, so that the further the preparation goes, the more municipal decision-makers and provincial decision-makers are confident that this will be good and that everyone’s services will improve? In this reform, the fact that these investments of 5 million have already been limited has certainly been justified, and the deliberations of the Government and the authorisations given have been very good, unlike this limit of 30% on the basis of the terms of dismissal. The private health centres and others have already told us that this does not really limit their activities at all, because a variety of arrangements can be made with regard to its percentage, so that these privatisations will continue. The reason why this uncertainty has now gone to the hospital districts is due to the situation a year ago in that neighboring hall. Then, as a savings law, as a budget law, the special health care frontier law, the on-call law, in which other health care districts were banned from performing part of their duties, but at the same time they were not prohibited from private providers of the same service. In other words, it was prohibited from public but not private. On this point, the Social Democrats put forward the version that, although we know that there is a need for consolidation, it would have been expected and included in the context of the wars, so that the regions and local authorities might have had a little more confidence in the fact that, when we make a whole, it also looks at this division of work in hospitals at the same time. Now this uncertainty is so great that when the Association of Local and Regional Authorities asked the experts in hospital districts and municipalities, that is, the people who are actually doing this work, how these original goals seem to come true, one per cent of the respondents fully trusted it. One per cent of the people who do this in practice, on a daily basis, are confident that the government's objectives and the objectives that have been jointly achieved in parliamentary terms will be realised, namely that integration will increase, equality will improve and the costs will be brought under control. One percent of the people who do this in practice are therefore counting on this. Here are the benefits for international companies, and that is why all the time our demos have been in their own version that, yes, we need bigger organizers, bigger shoulders, but so that the organiser is public and the producer is mainly public, making use, as is the case at present, of the third sector, i.e. organisations and private companies by purchasing their services. And there is a great opportunity to increase the choice by means of what we already have, by developing a service voucher model and using a personal budget with pilots. Such moderation could have been achieved if we wanted to, but now this government did not want to, but wanted to confuse all the other elements, including the reform of the state administration and this freedom of choice and this regional model, which are completely unnecessary if we were really wanted to make a mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u35	Mr President! We're doing a real repair move before this actual law. For years now, we have had the aim of making genuine freedom of choice in basic health care and in certain parts of special care, but certainly not a monopoly structure. After all, in the past, the point of view was clearly a public monopoly which, in a certain way, was unable to open up where all the tax euros go, whether they go as efficiently as possible. After all, the situation is that the public side, together with certain private, larger players, is perhaps trying to continue with the solution when our goal is that genuinely people should be able to choose, and that is where that choice comes from, and there is a big difference. That is why this repair movement is also a good thing, which is to achieve that genuine freedom of choice, especially in basic health care. After all, it seemed at first that this bill, which is being discussed today, was being praised and considered a good change on behalf of the opposition, but the conclusions went in the wrong direction. Firstly, it came as a proposal to create a market for large companies. No, it's people's freedom of choice. Not a market for large companies, but an opportunity for different actors to act [ There's a commotion on the left. Another solution. It was said that cost-effectiveness would go completely wrong if these reforms were to be introduced. No, the situation has been that there has been no transparency in the costs involved, but it has not been possible to compare the cost of this kind of cost. You can't really do this without a comparison, and that quality would solve it. Thirdly, you criticise the fact that this is now leading to long and expensive treatment chains. Aren't the expensive and long care chains right now? That is why we are doing this reform to get rid of these expensive and long-term care chains and to get services to their own health care, for example, as quickly as possible. Fourth, Mr Salonen said that freedom of choice would lead to an excessive expansion of the field — thus bringing services closer to people. In other words, it would bring services closer to people, new kinds of health care services. Do you think it's bad for them to come closer to people? Finally, Mr Arhinmäki said that'money for tax havens'. Are we not right now in the process of drafting the bill in which the balance sheets are cleared, preventing these internal interest rates, which are much more transparent than what is being done with a normal company? Isn't that a good reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u36	I will give Mrs Torvise the floor, and then there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u37	Mr President! Colleagues, there has been a very good debate here, and I will continue on the subject in the sense that I want to give some mercy to those people in the municipalities that have taken this decision. So now we are dealing with the amendment of the law, which will reduce the cut-off rate to 30%, and I am going through the point of view of large health giants in this matter. Finnish social and health care has been in a strong transformation process. Of course, this process of change is also of interest to private social and health care companies. This has created a climate in which private and foreign-owned companies have approached municipalities, joint municipal authorities and leading politicians to safeguard their own interests. Of course, law firms with experience in contract law have been behind health giants in creating attractive contractual systems for international health companies, and they are well acquainted with that legislation. The lawyers of municipalities and joint municipal boards have not been able to respond to this expertise, but have had to agree to unfavorable contractual solutions for municipalities and local authorities as underdogs. There have already been several references to Meri-Lapp and Siikalatva in Oulu. Here an example has been the health giant Bee. In reality, the bee is only one of the most aggressive profits in any way to achieve health waste. I am well aware that this government initially defined a 50% threshold for privatisation. It put too much faith in the morals of multinational health giants in this competitive world. Sadly, instead of morals, these actors threw into the game the unscrupulous pursuit of profit. We are now in a situation where, because of these unscrupulous measures, the government is forced to impose stricter restrictions on the services to which privatisation is subject. This is a very sensible and the only right thing to do. Now I have to say, "That is enough, multinational health giants." The government has prepared a giant reform in a well thought-out manner. It just did not understand that the multinational health care companies in Finland are not worthy of trust. Fortunately, we are now getting in the way, and the players and the lawyers are now having to think about new tricks and directions. True, trust has been shaken and even lost. I would like to take a new example like this: Kinnula Municipality was below the 50 per cent limit by buying 15 years of social welfare and health services at the health centre. This created a 1 % threshold for the agreement. Fortunately, this legislative change guarantees the freedom of action of the provinces in the organisation of social welfare and health care. It also makes sense to limit investment in construction — that limit of 5 million. There are good practical reasons for this: We no longer need massive hospital property. The patient won't be in the hospital for months. I would like the opposition to see that, in this case, the decision-makers of the municipalities are not, because of this government’s confusion — if the opposition says it is a mix-up — in this situation, but because Finnish health care companies, which have been actively supported indirectly by the labour movement in the previous government, have taken an immoral stance and are trying to launder Finnish society. Now this government has said that this kind of game is out of the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u38	This is the start of the debatable phase and its first speech will be made by the Minister, who will be speaking for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u39	Mr President! I would like to comment on a number of issues that are clearly linked to this package of laws. I think it's a difficult situation, too. It is clear that the government's decision to recast the freedom of choice law, to make it better, led to further uncertainty in the field. I believe that many of us are able to identify with the concerns of the municipal decision-maker, who is concerned about securing local services. That is why, in my previous speech, I wanted to emphasise that, at the heart of the reform of the government's social welfare system, the security of local services is at the heart of the reform, but I also stressed that there are many other social restructurings hidden within this reform, such as the change in digitalisation and health technology and developing medicine, which I also rely on a great deal of the savings that have been called for here in the reform. Mr President! Mr Paatero, you pointed out that the government made decisions separate from the division of work between specialised hospitals. Surely it is a solution that history will evaluate, and it has not been easy. We recognize that pain related to the change in the division of tasks. At the same time, however, we note that the savings were made in such a way that the activities in each hospital, and therefore the regional life force that Mrs Talja called for, can continue. I would also point out that difficult decisions would have been, in any case, even if they had been taken on a regional basis, and now there is room for agreement in the regions. Mr Räsänen asked about the parliamentary group. Well, that's fine, and I've been calling you. More than one of you just announced that no one will be able to attend the next meeting. We are organizing a new time, and we are happy to go through these very pains. You also called for leadership. That is precisely why the Ministry wanted to take a strong position on Siikalatva's situation under the current law, also to show that it may not be sensible for other municipalities to plan similar solutions. With regard to equal treatment between individuals and the public, the Act on Freedom of Choice is in line with their obligations with regard to customer charges and other practices. In the case of specialised medical surgery, it will be subject to comparable quality criteria and will be brought into law at the level of the regulation next spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u40	Now we're going to the debat. Reply, first of all, Mr Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u41	Mr President! This proposal, which is now under discussion, is necessary, but the reason why it is necessary is that the government's social welfare package is so confused that the municipalities and now the hospital districts have fallen into these massive outsourcings. I myself visited the West Ostrobothnia region the previous weekend before this decision on externalisation was taken, and that is exactly what Mr Paatero said, as Mr Paatero said, the confused situation of the social welfare reform causes uncertainty, mistrust. In addition to this, the on-call regulation that was recently enacted has created a situation where people are genuinely afraid for their local services, their own services, and that is why we are now looking for solutions in the hands of an emergency to secure services in their own area. In other words, I would urge the government to continue to look in the mirror and to find those reasons and, hopefully, solutions for re-establishing the war.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u42	Mr President! When municipalities and regions do total outsourcing, it is to some extent understandable, they want to safeguard the services of people in their own region. But, on the other hand, if the services of a municipality or region and the costs are betoned for years, it is out of the money available to the rest of the province, especially when the social welfare reform has been built into the target of EUR 3 billion of savings. This will inevitably mean that in the coming years the government will have to reduce the funding of the provinces. That's why I have a question for the government. Is it possible to add to the draft provincial law a binding clause for the provinces that guarantees that even the low population in the province will make their voices heard? At least such a provision would remove the current uncertainty of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u43	Mr President! Now I see the minister is going somewhere. I would have asked him if it would have been a good idea to stick to the original goal of the government programme. It had a staggered model, i.e. first it would have gone to in-tegration and restructuring and then it would have looked at funding and freedom of choice. Now we have hung ourselves from the disagreements between the centre and the coalition that the provincial government or the freedom of choice, and which will win this wrestling. This is, of course, very worrying when you look at this original purpose. The Government Programme states the aim of "reducing health inequalities", this also includes "cost management", but also "a seamless whole of the service chain which is important for the well-being and health of people", and "the aim of the reform is to strengthen basic services and secure rapid access to care for people". These people have now fallen short, and here are the municipalities and politicians, but I am sorry that the minister was not here to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u44	Mr President! This bill is certainly necessary in this situation, but on the other hand, as has been said here, it would have been unnecessary if expert opinions on the reform had been taken into account in time and changed direction accordingly. Now the social welfare reform has been pushed forward like a snake into a gun, and municipalities and other actors do not know what happens to good care and care produced nearby, and that is why we are going to make these emergency decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u45	Mr President! This social welfare reform is carried out in order to give every Finnish person equal access to effective, high-quality services — when it comes to basic services, as close as possible, and when it comes to heart surgery, it may be a little further away. It makes sense to do wise work sharing in special services. I am very shocked that the opposition, and in particular the Left Alliance here, is saying that they believe that public services in a Finnish welfare society do not belong to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u48	Responses, first Mrs Rinne and then Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u49	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, we got quite close to the goal: a little bit of the problem of how to build these larger entities, how to secure democracy in them. Only one party throughout the last parliamentary term opposed this and drove such a different model, a market model, which now has led to a dominant position in this government model. The regional model for the centre and the market model for the assembly have been the change that has taken place in this preparation, and it has led this reform of the original objectives in a completely wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u52	Mr President! I find the way in which Mr Sarkomaa is conducting this debate on social issues to be quite outrageous by talking here in the Chamber about the positions and policies of other parties. If the objective is to genuinely improve the accessibility of care for low income Finns, there are above all three key issues: The first would be a significant reduction in the highest customer fees in the Nordic countries. We are now in a situation in Finland where 400,000 social welfare and health care payments go into enforcement, as was done last year. Secondly, it would be essential to channel more resources to health centres, to the public side, in order to shorten queues. Thirdly, from the point of view of people with multiple problems on low incomes, the implementation of integration is absolutely essential in order to facilitate access to treatment, especially where there is a need to use a wide range of services and the assistance of a wide range of experts. Your proposal will lead to an increase in costs as a result of and as a result of this market-basedisation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u53	Mr President! This situation in Meri-Lap shows that a private person wants to take over a corner from special medical care, which is particularly difficult in its entirety to maintain on-call duty. I would now like to ask: can a private service provider, in fact at Meri-Lap, take care of the emergency services at all? Who is in charge of treating complications when there is surgery and so on or being treated conservatively? And what will happen to the staff? In fact, the agreement states that the staff will be transferred as an old employee for the duration of this contract. After that, the employer has a rather unilateral right to determine whether a new contract is complied with, which may lead to a 9 % reduction in the pay level of carers and local carers according to the EVA study. Now it is urgent for the government to determine the fate of farms owned by municipalities, how they will be used, what compensation they will be guaranteed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u54	Mr President! I understand the Minister's haste, but it would certainly have been very good if he had been able to stay until the end of this debate, because there is now a great deal of urgency about this social reform in this Chamber too, that in what way this is really going to be achieved. I do not believe that there is anyone in this Chamber who would like to see the reform of the social economy fail, because it is a necessary reform. Today's structures will not be able to secure services in a way that is equal to all in the future as the population ages. I must say that I am extremely saddened about the original objectives of the social model which was set up in the last period, among other things, and which the current government has also identified as necessary,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u55	Mr President! The effects of the government's market-based social welfare reform are extremely worrying. When we look at the records of the government programme, actually, for the last two years, large multinational companies have been taking over the market just as much. This has actually been the government's signal in terms of opening up and opening up markets by billions. If you think about it, insurance companies start their own hospital activities. If we look at housing services for the elderly, for example in my own province of Pirkanmaa, then the large, multinational care companies are constantly receiving total outsourcing from all the smallest municipalities in the province where they are promised that local services will be provided and that they will provide housing services for the elderly in the region. That some sort of restriction is needed, and this example of the West North is just the tip of the iceberg
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u56	Mr President! The horse has already been shot so badly that catching it is very difficult. At the beginning of last July, five months ago, when the government decided on an additional year for this preparation — which in itself was necessary for many things — it would have had to be put on the backs of the neck so that such a situation would not have arisen as it did in the West North. It was already known that about every mayor had an offer on his desk from some big health company, an attractive offer as we know what they were like. And then these small business companies, these big ones, they buy all the time. So this development was fully known, and the government put their hands in their pockets and waited, and now it is only in the Christmas rush that this law, which is of course urgently needed, will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u57	Mr President! It has been said here that, in the case of Meri-Lap, there would be some problems in the market economy, but in my opinion it is precisely a question of seeing them deprived of special care and of some reduction in basic health care. So the problem is that these services would have been further away later. I understand myself as a renegade — there would certainly have been the same kind of movement if, for example, the central hospital had been threatened in some way yet to amputate what it is at the moment. That's where the need comes from. [Left: Just like this!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u58	Mr President! In this constraint law debate, when reference has also been made to my region of Kemin-Tornio and to the situation in Meri-Lapin, I thought that I could change the word to comment on it, even though it did not have a direct connection to the law. If this law comes into force at the turn of the year, it will not slow down what the councils have decided in Meri-Lap. There, of course, the decisions of the councils are moving forward in their own process. Of course, it is certainly worth negotiating inside Lapland and considering how to get out of the situation. But there is also a solution in government. It could be like that when the Health Care Act is in any case to be updated in the spring, every central hospital must secure the functions of basic and special care. I guess it has never been the intention of any central hospital in Finland to weaken or disappear from the map. So this is a matter that can be dealt with by the government if you want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u59	Mr President! This law is really necessary, but, as I said, it is now an emergency brake, but it is good that it has even been introduced at this point. Of course, the question is: why have we come to this situation? And yes, everyone must certainly look in the mirror, as they did, because together we share these objectives of social reform and we see the need for it, but unfortunately everyone has always wanted to bring their own side agendas to reform, and this time they are this provincial government and wide-ranging freedom of choice, and that is why this is still not finished. The emergency and panic on the municipal court is great. There's a concern about local services. On the other hand, many municipalities are in a weak economic situation and attractive offers are of interest to municipalities. And they do not just apply to the sale of services, because now these large companies are also buying in poor condition real estate,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u60	Reply to the previous one, Mr Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u61	Mr President! Mr Mikkonen here said that various parties wanted to bring in side agendas and referred to the provincial government. I would like to say that during the last parliamentary term, when the Constitutional Committee issued two opinions on the then social reforms, it explicitly stated that the best way for democracy and in many ways is to organise these social and health services on a regional scale. This is not a side agenda, it is precisely the model that has been recommended and which was based on a different model of these earlier companies which then fell. It must, however, be recognised that concern at the local, regional and local levels is genuine and justified, and that is why solutions have been made which are not necessarily the best possible for the whole. Now we have to create a view here, this house and this hall, that together we will send a message that this reform will be brought to the finish line and that model is precisely a provincial model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u62	Mr President! So the government is holding on to the emergency brake, but it seems that this emergency braking is taking place under the icy conditions of the mountain road. This government's social bus is well on its way out of the way. It has become clear to us so far that there is no guarantee that this law will suffice to put an end to these outsourcings. After all, this already includes a complete loophole, which is this 30% stake, which will be used next, as private health companies have already said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u63	Mr President! I would have made two comments. This is where Mr Nurminen said that the market model will be brought here to Finland and Pirkanmaa. By chance, Pirkanmaa had an experiment on freedom of choice, in which some of the health stations were in the area of freedom of choice, some were not. The difference was pretty huge between them in the service level. On average, those who were not in the choice experiment had about 30 days to get to the doctor — one had two days. Would it make sense to consider that such freedom of choice could even be beneficial and positive? And another to Mr Andersson: Your argument is that now those low incomes, middle incomes, all Finns who see that this public health care, for example, takes 30 days to get to the doctor, and as a result they go there to the private people so that they can get the service quickly — you say so — would not be about the same. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u66	Mr President! Well, I'd like to know in two days when you get to the doctor, what it costs and who pays for it. It is a good thing that you get to a doctor when you need it and you need to get to it right away, but it is a sure thing that it will cost you and it will increase the cost of basic health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u71	Mr President! The president of the largest opposition party in his Gallup support says, a direct quote: 'You have to say 'no' to it.' At the same time, the person in question in this Chamber says that this period of uncertainty will continue, and it will thus be allowed to continue the accelerated decline in basic services. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] Mr Heinäluoma asked who was paying for the 15-year contract and the legislation on freedom of choice entered into force. Yes, it is the municipality and joint municipal authority that pays, ultimately. A person has freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u74	At this stage of the debate, within this agreed window of time, I will give the answers to the representatives of Andersson, Rinne and Sarkomaa, and then the time will be full.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u75	Mr President! I would like to reiterate once again why this reform is not being carried out on the terms of low-income patients and customers. As I said, from the point of view of improving access to treatment, there are three key issues that need to be resolved. The first is too high customer fees in Finland, the second is too long queues for public health centres, and the third is the lack of integration between social care and health care as well as between special and basic levels. Why does this reform not provide a solution to these problems? Because, according to expert estimates, costs may increase by 3 billion. So many billions — and when the provinces are not given the right to tax, they have no choice but to cut down on services or increase customer charges. Regardless of what happens, this is a clear weakening from the point of view of low income Finns. As a third factor, this reform will reduce integration, not improve it, which means that there is no
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u76	All right, and now we're past 10 seconds. Congressman Rinne, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u77	Mr President! Several experts have said that the cost of this reform will open up the market for private companies to less than EUR 10 billion. A number of experts, almost all of them, have said that, in line with the model of this government proposal, we are going to increase, not cut, future costs, as we were going to do for between 1.5 and 4 billion. This is all going to lead to... It may be that, in the early stages, as Mr Jaskari said, the availability of services will improve for a while, but the result of this government model will be that this job will be so expensive that it will have to be cut off from services, it will have to increase customer service fees and it will significantly increase inequality in Finnish society. The government model increases inequality, which is why we have to say no to that model. But we need to push forward the social welfare reform in a way where the public sector organises and mainly produces services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u78	Mr President! Current legislation has made it possible for private companies to go against what the public authorities would see best in terms of social and health care services. That is why this reform is being carried out. [CristinaSalosian Intercommunation]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u81	The debate is adjourned. The debate will continue at this session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u82	We will now continue to discuss item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u83	Mr President! In the day before, then, we discussed the so-called tightening up of the restriction law, which relates to the joint phase of social and health services and to the change that is now taking place in the reform. Even if there is not so much to say about the restriction law itself at this stage — that amendment of the law is very technical, only two articles in all are included in the law, six were included in the previous one, and the biggest thing is, of course, that in the general outsourcing of municipalities it falls from 50 % to 30 — even when, during that debate, even the Minister in his own presentation, raised the issue of what the situation looks like for the region and Lapland. Mr President! Of course, all municipal decision-makers want to defend the services of their own region. And that is exactly what we are doing in this Chamber, we want to defend the services of our own country, our constituency, and we want to promote the things that are important to our groups, to political parties. It is certainly a consensus that the reform of social and health services must be carried out. If it were easy, I'm sure it would have been done a long time ago. And in fact, this central government is the most advanced in that social reform, this time longer than anyone else in the past. There are more than 40 laws in the whole, and only one of them has problems which have caused the whole reform to be delayed and is linked to freedom of choice. However, I am convinced and certain that even before the end of the year, hopefully, the government will also agree on that freedom of choice. However, it is untenable that as long as the reform of social and health services is not completed in a long-term way, health inequalities in Finland will continue to grow and services will be concentrated, in sparsely populated areas they will go further and, on the other hand, where there are a lot of people and a lot of services, the queues may be quite large and still not be able to reach the services. Unfortunately, Mr President, in this debate, however, the reform of social and health services and the government's savings agreed in the government negotiations almost three years ago is going to go awry. After all, these have nothing to do with each other, but the government's savings relate to the balancing of the economy and the agreement that was reached with the parties. And now the economic turn has taken place, so in that sense the economic policy line has certainly been in the right direction as employment improves. However, the largest single saving was directed at special care, 350 million, and I am very sad that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health decided to make that savings in order to concentrate the various activities rather than think about how to make efficiency and savings within their existing services and service structures. For example, in my own country, Lapland, where there are two central hospitals, it would be possible to save EUR 12 million by harmonising the special treatment periods of these central hospitals. Instead, the savings that have been donated from government, for example: To the Province of Lapland, there are 16 million euros. In other words, there is no need to close down some departments or, not to mention, to take special care further away, but only with best practice can we get very close to the savings hopes and goals that have been set. I do not know, then, whether this has not convinced the Ministry of Finance' s civil service, which sometimes seems to be in a very large position when it comes to the savings of any administrative sector. However, it would be important for the government and the government to send a clear signal to these two central hospitals in spring, such as Lapland or Etelä-Savo — which are exceptional when all other provinces have only one central hospital — and that in this context all central hospitals normally continue as on-call units for primary and special care. There has been a great deal of confusion about this, but I do not think there should be any confusion about it. It must be the central and government line that every central hospital continues, and then it would take fear away from these areas, which have been feared to run away from special medical care. In other words, if the government wishes, if it is concerned, for example, about this joint venture of the Bee, the Government would have the opportunity and means to prevent that even at this stage, when negotiations are being held within the province of Lapland again, the Government would declare its support for such a change in the health law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u84	Mr President! Yes, even in this changed version, this lengthy and booming reform of social security is still in trouble. There are such messages throughout the country that, even in this new round of opinions, the views on this reform are very contradictory and even experts do not seem to understand what is actually being said about these changes. I very much understand the uncertainty of social and municipal decision-makers in the face of these unimaginable reforms, and the fact that there are different Bees and other buzzards running around there is only a reaction to the fact that the government is creating uncertainty with these measures and with this vigour throughout this country in important social services. We'd be back for another year to freeze development in the middle of a mess. The thought and the question of what to do if this house of cards goes down will inevitably creep into your mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u85	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u86	Mr President! In the Constitutional Committee we have often dealt with personal data and various registers in recent months and throughout this period, when I have been in the Constitutional Committee for a few years. In these discussions it has become clear that we have hundreds of regulations on data protection and confidentiality, which the authorities have to deal with on a daily basis, and they often hit each other on the face and that is the real problem. In some ways it would be hoped that we would have a centralised approach to how many different cross-border regulations we have. In this case, it does not change the substance in itself, but this subject came to my mind here, and it is a good point to restore this problem to the debate. It reminds me, for example, of medical records and the law of guardianship and their contradiction. Those are the years I've been applying as a lawyer at the Local Register Office. According to the Act on Remedies, it is the duty of the guardian to ensure that the principal, i.e. that the guardian, receives adequate care and care, but that the basic function does not include, for example, giving consent to the transfer of his client’s medical records. It often caused problematic situations and then had to apply to the court for separate orders. There are also confidentiality rules, and sometimes you don’t know what the article should be applied to, and the authorities are often amazed at hospitals, health services. I would like to see more debate about the fact that it takes a lot of time for the authorities to think about this type of thing and perhaps we should get through this legislation in such a way that we can get some general law and concentrate on it. It is a real problem for the authorities, and it takes a lot of time, and people will also complain or complain about those decisions at times, and it will again deprive the authorities of their reliability, it is thought that they will not know, even though it is more controversial laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u87	Mr President! This proposal deals with the decommissioned Police Information System Patja, which currently contains a number of sub-registers that the police will have to go through in practice, for example, when checking personal data, and this has been quite laborious for the police. It'll take a lot of time. The Authority Information System Vitja, which replaces this, was supposed to be operational as early as 2014, but unfortunately these IT reforms are in practice so complex that it has still not been possible to do so, and now it is due to become operational from the beginning of 2018. In this context, the deletion of this information from this Police Information System will require such a technical change, as this delay has taken place. That is why I welcome this proposal. This is indeed of a very technical nature, but it is linked to an important system of information for the authorities, and I really hope that it will then be made operational from the beginning of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u88	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 18/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u89	Mr President! With regard to this government proposal, I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has produced a very good report in which, among other things, it says: "It is good in the view of the Committee that the proposed increase can partly compensate for the elimination of the temporary reduction in the amount of child income in the form of income tax and mitigate the negative impact of the exit on disposable income in one parent's families." Undoubtedly, although I consider this government proposal to be very good and, as I said, also this report to be good, I would like to think that, when the state finances have come into play in the course of the two parliamentary term, one can say that austerity measures, which have unfortunately also been targeted at families with children, and partly — fortunately not very much, but partly — I would like to look to the future, in a way, to the situation that is in view of the prospect that, thanks to the measures taken by the Sipilä Government, among other things, our state finances have also turned towards a better direction, so that we can achieve a surplus in our state finances, so that we can get rid of this debt, in that situation, we should also be able to improve the position of families with a view to improving the economy and also to correcting child benefits for the rest of the world, but only in this respect. Indeed, it is extremely worrying that there are already messages that Estonia will soon be passing on child supplements to Finland, and when we compare it with neighbouring countries or Germany, the situation there will be quite different. At the same time, we have the lowest birth rate in history here in Finland, and we would certainly do well to pay attention to this too. As the age groups get smaller, the number of child supplements already paid automatically is slowly falling, and we must be able to afford to improve the situation of families with children in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u90	Mr President! The Government’s presentation and direction are good, but we Finns want to target even more to single parents the resource, the resource they desperately need. In the statement of income, child benefit is taken into account as income affecting the amount of income support. An increase in the level of the single parent-retirement pension would not affect disposable income in families receiving income support. The Finns Party would like to point out that the child reduction offsets the child allowance cuts made in 2014 and, from the point of view of the absolute value of income distribution and fair taxation, it would be justified to maintain the child allowance at 2017 level in 2018. We, the True Finns, propose that child allowance for a single parent’s child be increased to EUR 58,30. We will propose an amendment to this paragraph, and we will also make a statement: 'The government will require that the single parents be well cared for in the future'. These shall be done when it is time for the statement to be made. It is very important that child benefits go into need families, go into normal families as well as single parents’ families. Yes, freezing is a bad thing. In my opinion, child supplements should never be touched in the future. For single parents, this performance gives us a little more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u91	Mr President! Mr Juvonen gave good reasons for the amendment we tabled, which I therefore support, that is to say, this proposal by Mr Juvonen to raise the single-parent race by EUR 9.75 instead of the EUR 4.75 proposed by this government. Finally, as Mr Salmon has already pointed out, the situation of families with children is already very difficult in many respects and this government's economic policy has not helped the cause of families with children much. Now this autumn, the government decided to abolish the tax deduction on children, which results in the loss of income of hundreds of euros for a very large number of families with children, and this also applies to single parents and, in fact, to them the hardest. Of course, this single parent increase in child benefit, which is now being discussed and will be decided here, is, as a single measure, fair, but in the opinion of the Finns-based, totally inadequate, and that is why we are really proposing this increase in the level of the single parenting breed. In fact, it would fully compensate for this reduction in children taken away from single parents, and we believe that this change would be fair in a situation where the birth rate of Finns is at its lowest in more than a century. We believe that the status of Finnish families with children should be improved by all means available in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u92	Mr President! There have already been speeches on how families with children are currently in a rather difficult and tight financial position. However, this government proposal will only be able to intervene in one part of the situation of single parents this time. We have nearly one-fifth of families with children today, that is, over 100,000 single parents, and there are 163,000 children in these one-parent families. The single parent increase is now to be raised from EUR 48.55 to EUR 53.30 on the basis of this law. These arguments have already been explained in previous speeches by the committee, but I would like to read another sentence in the committee's report: "The Committee welcomes the fact that the overall budget review, the so-called child budgeting, is being promoted in the ongoing Government programme for the change of child and family services. This means that in order to assess the overall impact, the aim is to prepare a cross-administrative cooperation model for decision-making, which aims to assess the impact of new laws on children." There are no fewer than three objections to this committee's report, which are mainly auctioning this price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u93	Mr President! As has already been pointed out in relation to the above, this government proposal in itself is a good thing. A raise for single parents is necessary but does not remove the tight economic situation of single-parent families. In fact, the increase has been considered to be very marginal. Even the Federation of One Parent's Families has stated that this increase of EUR 5 is welcome but that the deduction of children from taxation should not be abolished, since the benefit of the abolition of the tax on children is up to EUR 3,58 for single parents of one child or even goes down by more than EUR 14 for single parents of four children, and if the aim is precisely to help single-parent families, then at least it should have been ensured that, at the same time, this deduction of children from taxation should have been abolished, then it would have been more likely that single parents would have been replaced. It has also been said in this context that poverty in families with children – especially in single-parent families of course – is an unfortunate fact in Finland, and we need to be able to put much more effort into it than we have done now. The government must make an overall assessment to ensure the livelihood of families with children and to eliminate the poverty of families with children, and it has to be said that the SDP has just made a statement by the Working Party on Family Poverty with dozens of suggestions, which, with very small things, we could jointly do in order to eliminate the poverty of families with children from this country,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u96	Mr President! This proposal is acceptable in itself, but the problem here is that this proposed increase only partially compensates for this abolition of the child allowance, which is the intention of this proposal, and that this is targeted specifically at single parents, is certainly a good choice and a worthwhile choice, since single parents are certainly the strictest among families with children, but at the same time I draw attention to the fact that the indexation of the child benefit has been abolished since the beginning of 2016 and has meant that the real value of child supplements is falling and falling and that it is directed at all families with children. Now, at this time in particular, we need positive messages for those who are planning to become a family and for couples and families. The child allowance system is the core and gem of the Finnish family support system, and it should be handled with great care. In view of the discussions that have taken place around child supplements in recent years, they have been proposed when they are to be taxed and cut down and the increase in siblings relaxed, which is detrimental to families with many children who are also trapped in poverty. I hope that in the future we will be better able to secure this child benefit system,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u97	Mr President! Raising the single parenting rate of child benefit to EUR 53 and up to 30 cents is very welcome. Last time a single parent increase or a level increase has been made in 2008, i.e. it is a good thing that this increase is made here by this government. This is particularly justified for single parents because the low income ratio is almost double that of the rest of the population. Similarly, the unemployment rate of single parents is twice as high as that of the rest of the population. The most important work to be done for families during this reign is to create new jobs. Work will lead to the greatest reduction in poverty, tax money to strengthen social security, services for families and also family leave, which means that children are important, and children have a future. This is one positive thing for families with children. Social security is now being reformed in such a way that the level of basic security is sufficient and that social security is always encouraging work and so that so many people are not dependent on income support because it should be last place. Poverty in families with children must be eradicated in many ways, but new jobs are the best way to do so, and I believe that this hope-giving increase in employment will also encourage Finns to have the number of children they see in the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u98	Mr President! Mr Sarkoma's speech should be continued. The same arguments are outlined here myself. This is indeed a level increase that has been made for the first time since 2008, and current transfers in Finland are high in international estimates. In the OECD scale, the income gap among Finns is large, but after the income balance we are therefore a very equal country, among the most equals. The overall reform of social security is under way, and I see that the Lappe project is one of this in such a way that we Finns have a better future, we would have children in the future to share the burden of social security imposed on us by older people. Finland is now building a register of incomes, which is an important part of the social security reform so that it is as appropriate to coordinate work and social security as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u99	Mr. Speaker! One important part of the alternative budget for Finns, one in five, is entitled "Home, Care, Care". In this we had, and still have, an important objective of improving the position of families with children, especially those who are in financial difficulties so that these difficulties are reflected in the lives of children. After all, children are completely innocent of the fact that parents have, for example, unemployment, illness or other difficulties, and that is why children must be particularly invested in this situation. It is regrettable that this child allowance is now missing and, on the other hand, housing costs, for example, are rising. This will not improve the situation of families with children. The improvement in the employment situation is, of course, good and important, but it does not replace an improvement in the position of families with children, especially those with the most vulnerable children. This situation, which we have in particular with regard to the birth rate, is an emergency call. We have such a low birth rate that all the measures that can be taken, sensible and responsible, must now be put in place to ensure that the future of the Finnish people rises and that growth is secured. In the centenary of independence comes the lowest birth rate for centuries, it is incomprehensible. In other words, the government must now take the position of families with children seriously and improve it and leave others as secondary tasks during the rest of the season.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u100	Mr President! This increase for single parents does not, however, allow one to wash one’s conscience from the situation of families with children at all. We have seen so much weakening of families with children this season, including in the area of services. Limiting the right to subjective day care is one negative decision against children. There have also been constant changes in child supplements in recent years. For example, the indexation of child benefit was abolished from the beginning of 2016. For 2017, child supplement levels were reduced by 0.91%, and the average real value of child benefit is now 30% lower than in 1994 — 30% lower. Can we talk about taking the side of families with children when we know this fact? In fact, the taxation of families with children will become stricter today, for example in the households of two school-age children, up to one per cent. Is this the message we want to send to families with children in such a situation when the Finnish economy is growing? In the opinion of the SDP, the message should be that growth belongs to everyone, including the children of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u101	Mr President! In August, Jaakko Salo, a specialist in the Education Trade Union, commented publicly that poverty in families with children and child poverty were also visible in schools. A kid might say he's hungry. It is also reflected in the fact that you may be wearing the same clothes for a long time, that is, you cannot afford to buy clothes. At the end of 2016, THL published a report explaining that one in ten families with children is suffering from poverty, which means that the subject is indeed serious, and it is very important that children are at the heart of decision-making here in Parliament. In my opinion, the index freezes on child supplements are unsustainable. In their own shadow budget, the Finns have also highlighted the preservation of child allowance in the home, care and care section. Unfortunately, we did not manage to get it through, but I think that this additional increase of EUR 5 for single parents on top of the government increase is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u102	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 15/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u103	Mr President! This draft law under discussion relates to a new university group of three universities in Tampere and to university integration, as well as to a significant expansion of cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences. This is very important in terms of education policy, and also an interesting presentation, because it deals with the structure and dual model of the university field as well as the autonomy of universities guaranteed by the Constitution and the University Act. So what exactly is going on? The University of Tampere and the Tampere University of Technology, acting as a Foundation University, will be merged into a new Foundation University called Tampere University. Tampere University of Applied Sciences, which is mainly owned by the new university, will also join the group. Thus, a new type of higher education system will emerge under Finnish conditions, with the aim of raising the international profile of higher education institutions and enabling a new type of scientific and educational cooperation. In order to enable this cooperation, this proposal proposes to amend the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, and also provides for the process of university unification by means of a law of enforcement. Unfortunately, it is precisely this process of unification that has not been managed in a way that is consistent with the provisions of the Constitution and the University Act on the autonomy of universities and the recognition of the status of the university community. According to the University Act of 2009, the university's multi-member operating body, composed of representatives of the university community, elects the university's board of directors, which, for its part, elects the Rector. The new University Act significantly increased the role and power of the Rector and the Board of Directors in the decision-making and management within the university. According to the law, the Board of Directors of the University of Foundation has seven members, including the chairman and vice-chairman. The Government’s original proposal proposed deviations from this provision in such a way that the governments of the merging universities will elect the first transitional government of the new university. This choice was justified, among other things, by the desire to secure a smooth transition to a new university before the new multi-member institution of this new university is organised. According to the Government’s proposal, this would enable a functioning government to be established. This approach was already criticised in the consultation for failing to comply with the constitutional and university law provisions on the selection procedure of the government and the safeguarding of the status of the university community in it. Even if it is a transitional solution, this first government should decide on a wide range of issues that are central to the university, such as the choice of the principal, the structure of the university which is born, and also its strategy. Despite criticism, the governments of the merging universities chose the transitional government of the emerging new university. Therefore, the university community was not taken into account when making the most important decisions for the university. This is because the Board of Directors of the Tampere University of Technology consists entirely of members outside the higher education community and 5 of the 11 members of the Board of Directors of the University of Tampere are outsiders. Unfortunately, this chosen approach for Tampere reflects the results of the national evaluations of the University Law adopted in 2009. The university community feels that the concentration of competence and decision-making has distanced the university community from decision-making and has exacerbated differences of opinion within the community. Community decision-making and internal democracy in higher education institutions have decreased significantly due, among other things, to the weak and partly unclear position of the multi-member institutions. In its opinion to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that, in the context of legislative reform, transitional arrangements and timetables for adoption are not acceptable grounds for derogating from the requirements of fundamental and human rights enshrined in the Constitution and in international human rights treaties or for transferring them to the future. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this also applies in principle to the organisation of administration. The committee therefore saw that the most justified selection procedure in terms of the protection of the constitution of the university's autonomy is to safeguard the central role and decision-making powers of the multi-member governing body representing the university community, including in the selection of the first government. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this can be done, for example, by setting up a transitional government from the governments of the merging universities, provided that the choice cannot be attributed to a multi-member administrative body in a manner comparable to the ordinary procedure. In other words: In order to be able to deal with this draft law in general in the order in which the ordinary law was adopted, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs required that the transitional government be limited in time to the minimum necessary. All transitional arrangements must therefore be limited to what is necessary in order to return as soon as possible to the normal marching order required by the Constitution and the University Act. However, unfortunately, within the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, the views differed as to what would be the best way to provide for transitional arrangements. According to the committee's final proposal, the transitional government chosen by the merging universities will elect the new university's headmaster. By 1 April 2018 at the latest, a multi-member institution will then elect a new government. The problem with this solution is that it will continue to give the transitional government, which has been elected in violation of the University Act and the Constitution, considerable power to decide on the crucial issues for the future of the entire new university. It is the view of the Left Alliance and the rest of the opposition that a more consistent approach than the position of the Constitutional Committee and the university law would have been the formation of a transitional government from the existing governments of the merging universities, so that the status of the university community would have been better taken into account. The transitional government would be given the task of preparing the election of the new headmaster, but the choice would be made by a new government chosen by a multi-member institution, so that the status and voice of the university community should be taken into account as required by law. Although it was not possible to reach this solution in committee, I still hope that it will be possible to come together in this Chamber to a solution that better implements university autonomy as required by law. That is why I will later support the proposals made by Mr Pilvi Torst to amend the law on enforcement in this regard. Mr President! This bill also modifies the possibilities for cooperation between universities of applied sciences and universities so that universities are no longer obliged to organise only the majority of their own education responsibility. Such a design will enable universities to acquire up to 49% of their education responsibility from another university. While increasing cooperation is a worthy objective, we see that too broad a formulation could jeopardise the preservation of the various tasks of universities of applied sciences and universities. Although there are no direct changes to qualifications structures and objectives, there is still a risk that increased cooperation in education will lead to the harmonisation of the content of qualifications — and, if this is the case, it would be difficult for Parliament to intervene. The dual model of higher education, in which universities focus on research-based education and universities of applied sciences strengthen the professional development of students and close links with working life, is justified. Education of the same kind will also be needed in the future. Greater cooperation between higher education institutions is to be welcomed, but in our view there is a need to step up cooperation in order to assess the impact on the structure of the higher education field and on the content of education. Therefore, at this stage, it would have made sense for universities to have access to education from another university to be limited to a lower university degree. It is important for the quality of cooperation in education and the suitability of different degrees that universities already cooperate at the planning stage of education. I will come later to propose amendments to the First Bill and 2. a draft law so that this cooperation in education at this stage is limited only to a lower university degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u104	Mr President! "Science is expected to be huge. It should solve climate change, treat even the most serious diseases and invent new innovations for economic growth. Expectations are not in vain, for over 200 years in the West have been the idea that while science satisfies human curiosity, it solves our biggest problems." This is how I began my speech in the recent Finnish Photomagazine, and it is true that science matters a lot to society and humanity, and it is good to recognise that the aim of this government proposal, too, is both to support significant reform from the perspective of the organisation of the Finnish science and higher education field and to enable perhaps even more innovative and wider cooperation between universities in order to achieve this broad understanding of science. Representative Andersson well described the process within which a new Foundation University from Tampere University, the Tampere University of Applied Sciences, and Tampere University of Technology will be established in Tampere in the framework of this Government's proposal. Perhaps it is good to note and note that the bill does not change the tasks laid down by the law of universities and universities of applied sciences, but our higher education institution will continue to consist of universities and universities of applied sciences with their own complementary roles and profiles. We consider Tampere to be the third language to be an absolutely valuable and fine project of Tampere University, also because it is committed to a wide range of backgrounds in Tampere. As a university person and a Helsinki citizen, I can say that I am happy for Tampere and I believe that this will further bring such good healthy competition to the Finnish higher education field. Mr President! The university and scientific community has many characteristics, which are at the heart of ensuring good research and scientific education, and one aspect in which universities have been ahead of other societies in the past decades has been internal democracy, i.e. an inclusive decision-making and governance culture. Key bodies have included student and personnel representation, so that different groups have still been identified within the staff, such as professors, research and teaching staff and administrative staff. We also know that it is precisely with this university democracy that during the new university law there has also been some pain and a few different models of implementation have been chosen in different universities, and that is why this is a sensitive issue at the moment. That is why the key question in the committee's deliberations was what the decision-making model of the new Tampere University is and, above all, how the decisions of the university's founding phase are made so that they have the strongest possible basis and the support of the scientific community. The involvement of the scientific community will ensure the strongest possible start of the new University of Tampere, and that was our core concern and also our question. Of course, decisions taken during the preparatory phase must also comply with the law in force, in other words, the University of Applied Sciences Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, where applicable. The problem with the government's original proposal, both in terms of legality and the nature of the scientific community, was that, as Mr Andersson well described above, we considered that a large number of preparatory powers had been given to the interim government. According to the original proposal, this temporary government would have acted in practice throughout next year until the start of the new university. During the committee's deliberations, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called for amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The essence of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also the spirit, was that the duration and powers of the temporary government should be limited to what is necessary. A multi-member governing body, i.e. an administrative body in which this large university community is involved, must be selected without delay. The committee therefore made the necessary changes to the fact that a multi-member institution must now be elected without delay. However, the committee's report was unfortunately lacking. The proposal would be consistent with the opinion of the Constitutional Committee if two further amendments were made. Firstly, it would be justified for the transitional government to be formed simply from the present governments of the merging universities, which therefore represent the scientific community. Secondly, it would be justified that by far the most important task, namely the election of the headmaster of the new university, should be carried out by the actual government and that there should be no situation in which the temporary government elects the principal, who can then be dismissed by the elected government if it so wishes. So we are creating a completely crazy situation that is not necessary at all. I will make these amendments, which will come to it on 3. Article 3 of the draft law. Finally, Mr President, there is also concern about the preparation of the principal's election in a way that recognises the nature of the scientific community, because during the examination of the bill it has become known that the new university was already looking for a principal. The demands made to applicants did not include a doctoral degree. So, now that the temporary government is only going to work for the necessary time, it would certainly be justified to leave the choice of principal to the government formed under the ordinary procedure and to consider these criteria and qualifications once again. Finally, I would like to say that, regardless of the details of the articles of the law to be enacted, I trust that the key people in Tampere's preparation after this debate will identify the issues at the heart of the success of the future university. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u105	Mr President! First of all, the plan to form a coherent whole of Tampere universities is all to be welcomed and, in many ways, useful. Indeed, in this sense, the draft law is certainly to be welcomed, but there are issues that are important for discussion and also some problems which have long been addressed by the committee and which have been dealt with by previous speakers. The central point is that there is a kind of precedent here for the relationship between universities and universities of applied sciences, which will only be dealt with nationally in connection with the so-called vision of higher education. There is a great consensus that both universities and polytechnics are needed and that both have their own roles and that cooperation, especially in the regional context, is beneficial. This law promotes cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences so that courses at another university can be accepted more easily. While this is of course beneficial, care should be taken to ensure that the teaching of both is too close to one another. It is also important to ensure the legal protection of students in these arrangements. In Tampere, the new university will own a university of applied sciences. When this trend is becoming more widespread at national level, the consequences must also be considered. It usually comes to mind that the owner decides what he owns. In this case, however, it has been strongly pointed out that universities of applied sciences have their own law. It regulates the administration and activities of a university of applied sciences, and the university can't interfere with this. However, this is an issue that will require more attention in future reflections. The main debate in committee was on the administrative launch of the new university. In this respect, the proposal includes an urgent start-up, in which the start-up of administration differs from the requirements of the University Act, also leads to constitutional reflection. After the discussion of the Constitutional Committee, the timetable was changed so that the law can be regulated normally, but this does not remove the problem of the arrangement. In particular, it is a question of choosing the first board of the new university. According to the University Act, the university's multi-member body elects the university's board of directors, which elects the university's principal. In this case, it is proposed that the governments of the old universities choose the provisional government, which in turn elects the first principal. Thus, the first multi-member body of the new university is now unable to choose a government that apparently elects a new principal for several years. This extraordinary solution, which has given rise to much debate, is of great importance in principle when the principal is a central person in charge of the university and the solution is likely to be made for several years. A number of options were put forward for the problem, but they were not wanted to go. While this Tampere law is to be adopted here, it is worth recalling the problem of this and of our universities in general that university teachers, researchers and other staff have generally experienced a lack of influence in their universities. On the other hand, this issue relates to the assessment of the university law, which is still on the table of the Committee on Culture. While the administration of our universities is unquestionably strained by the current law, discontent with the staff of our universities has certainly increased. There are, of course, other reasons for this worrying development, but one of the most important is the lack of influence on the part of a multi-member body, the college of higher education. It is worrying if university staff experience alienation from their own university. When universities have the most important role to play in teaching and research, it is important that teachers and researchers involved in this work — the most important resource for universities — can feel at the heart of the university's decision-making process, and in this respect it is important that this Tampere killing does not constitute a precedent for further reducing the administration of our universities, but that, on the contrary, the management of our universities can be further developed in such a way that the word of scientific research and teaching can be printed. In this context, it is also to be hoped that the spoken and good increase in the autonomy of our universities will also be reflected in a reduction in detailed and often rapidly changing government governance. Release the creative science of universities, because the much-speaked important national innovations do not come from above under command, but from our creative scientific community of universities. Mr. Speaker! Tampere should therefore be congratulated on a good project which will form a more integrated set of higher education institutions. Despite some of these critical comments, and in particular for future solutions, and when there is a rush to move on, I therefore support the proposed legislative package.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u106	Mr President! This government bill, which is supported by the Committee on Education, therefore means that Tampere will become an even stronger university entity. According to the proposal, the new university of applied sciences and universities of applied sciences are a strategically integrated entity. I would like to point out that this reform has taken place on the initiative of the trainers concerned. This is intended to be made possible by the legislation now being proposed, respecting the autonomy of universities. Mr President! As a long-standing Member of Parliament from Tampere and Pirkanmaa, and also as Minister of Education, I am trying to support, encourage the progress of this project and also feel personal satisfaction and joy at the fact that this reform, even historic in my opinion, is now moving forward. The purpose of this is to strengthen the international appreciation of higher education in the region as a whole and to serve Finnish society and working life. A multi-faceted and strong set of higher education institutions is expected to attract international researchers, teachers, experts and also students, and this, if anything, is also leading to better quality and effectiveness. The Social Democrats consider the reform to be justified and good. Combining resources can lead to higher quality and competitive education and research, and this is certainly important for the strengthening of the entire Pirkanmaa region, but also the entire Finnish industry. In this regard, Mr Pilvi Torsti said that he, as a Member of Parliament from Helsinki and a person who is well aware of higher education policy, is pleased with this reform. I would also like to say in return that this new university entity will challenge both Aalto University and the University of Helsinki, so that we should make it better here in Helsinki. Mr President! In this previous debate, this issue of university organization and the whole process that has already been practiced and done for many months has already been very much raised. In this particular case, we have a different opinion from the main opposition parties, a different view. And I was very pleased to receive an e-mail from Mikko Lampo, Chairman of the Board of the Student Union of Tampere. I do not think that he considers it a bad idea if I quote a few of these points — I assume that the distribution could have been wider than that for me only: 'We believe that your objection to the report of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy is clearly more in line with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have understood that the committee's vote between the 11+7 model and the transitional government model in the final report was tight." Well, according to these figures, it's already been strict, but technically, it was practically a fifty-fifty. But here, too, there is always a measure of this traditional position of governmental parties, that some who have little thought in the other way commit themselves to governmental party performances. In other words, I really strongly believe that this more democratic approach, which will then be put to the vote later on, is where we hope that this transitional government will be formed from the governments of the merging universities, where the transitional government will be made up of 11+7 members, with the same figures as the vote in the Committee on Culture. Mr President! This is an important government proposal, and it is great that it has received and, in my opinion, received a very good and honourable reading in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, with the exception of the two three points on which we disagreed, and they have now become very clear in these speeches that I am not going to repeat them any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u107	Mr President! As Mr Gustafsson said above, I am also very pleased that Tampere is about to be born with an internationally competitive university group that takes excellent account of future needs in education, science and also in the business sector. And this amendment to the University Act, this reform, is very much to be welcomed in this respect and has been widely praised both in the Tampere Economic Area and more generally in Finland as a whole. In this respect, we must thank the government for taking this issue forward. Mr President! The aim of this proposal is therefore very much to be welcomed, but, in line with what has been said earlier, I am also a little surprised at the way in which this important reform of the university law is now being carried forward, which is also an important one. My surprise is mainly about this urgency, with which the Committee on Education finally decided to take this matter through in this form, with the help of a majority of government parties. Indeed, this main problem relates to this selection of the board of the new university group to be created, to this selection of the transitional board, and then also to this election of the headmaster of the university. I believe that the committee should have sought to ensure that, after the expert opinions questioned this transitional government and the possibility for it to elect a new headmaster for the university, it would then have been by discussing in committee a way of finding, in full agreement, a sensible and unanimous way of dealing with these problems and also taking into account this position expressed in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in all its aspects. After all, the position taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its opinion that the duration of the transitional arrangements required for the creation of the University of Tampere should be limited to what is necessary has been taken into account, but the bar in this respect is very wobbly and goes beyond the bar at the most. In particular, this choice of new headmaster is such an important decision that it should have been left to the first actual government of the university to be born and not to this transitional government, as is now enshrined in the report. To this end, it should be pointed out that the Finns also voted in committee in this respect with the rest of the opposition, but, of course, the government, with its majority, carried this formulation through as it wanted. Mr President! The emergence of the new Tampere University Group is certainly an excellent start for all the parliamentary parties towards a new higher education policy and, indeed, very much to be expected. But, of course, this approach by the Committee on Education leaves a somewhat unpleasant side to the process, which I hope will soon be forgotten. We are in a situation where the Finnish higher education and science field is being taken forward and into the future in connection with the work of this Parliamentary 2030 vision working group, and now this reform of the university law is a good start in that direction. I hope that this Tampere 3 university group will indeed be showing the direction for future development in terms of creating internationally competitive universities and university entities in Finland, and also in terms of taking greater account of the needs of the business community in the future in the development of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u108	Mr President! The focus of the presentation is strongly on the Tampere 3 project and making possible the formation of the new Tampere University, as earlier speakers have pointed out, and as has also been said, this is a very important and interesting project. Of course, at the same time it is good to mention and remind you that, for the future, at the same time, we need a strong vision for both universities and universities of applied sciences, a vision that is far-reaching, far-reaching. The expert hearings were definitely critical of the fact that this future cannot be built, as it were, from the point of view of individual and possibly regional projects and needs, but therefore an important and interesting project. However, as has been pointed out, this is not entirely without problems, especially from a procedural and procedural point of view. The Government's proposal is strongly ignored by the university community, which is most affected by the changes. The organisation of the new university has given rise to concerns for both staff and students, whose potential to influence the Tampere 3 project has been reduced to zero. In the performance, the new university principal would be elected by a transitional government with no democratic legitimacy of the Community. Community involvement is critical to ensure the functioning of the new university. The main problems with the project as a whole have been, and are now, on a practical level, the Foundation's Board of Directors, which does not have a Community mandate, the formation of a transitional government, and the election of a new principal, which is a very important part of the formation of a new university. Preparations for the principal have already begun and have received very wide-ranging criticism from the Community, which has not yet been consulted, and this should be the subject of extreme concern. This is all mirrored by the fact that the expert consultation highlighted in a significant way the importance of consulting and involving the Community as a whole in terms of the success of the project, regardless of its views, and this fact was now ignored without any serious justification. We should be extremely concerned about this and hope that something can be done about this, because otherwise we will be putting the huge risks of this whole project at risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u109	Mr President! The government proposal is mostly very good. However, there are a few problems that we have already talked about here today. I think it is really good that resources are being used very efficiently. It is clear, however, that the dual model must remain. Universities of applied sciences and universities have very different educational policy tasks, and this is extremely important to bear in mind even after this Tampere 3 project, and it is very good that the Committee on Education and Culture also states this very clearly and clearly. The purpose of this law is not to destroy the dual model. Instead, the purpose of this law is to enable the dual model to be implemented in a rational and flexible way. Mr President! It is very important that quality is not compromised, and in this model of cooperation there is indeed a need to monitor very closely the development of quality, and another point that needs to be followed very broadly and closely is how this cooperation will affect this provision of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u110	Mr President! I agree with everything that Mr Toivola said in his speech in the Committee on Culture. In this context, too, it would have been important to respect the autonomy of universities which is provided for them by law, and it would have been very important that the future Tampere 3 government, which is now being set up, should have been able to choose its own principal, which would have been better in line with the principles of autonomy of university law, unlike the procedure that we are now witnessing. I also find it worrying that, even at this point, the government has not considered it necessary to take due account of the criticism of the Constitutional Committee about the way in which Tampere 3 is being set up and I hope that such a procedure will not take place in this House. Consultation with university students would be very important and should be strengthened. If we look at the welfare measurements made at universities and the studies that have been carried out since the reform of the university law, they prove that universities have gone in a worse direction in terms of well-being, and that is why such procedures should be avoided. I personally welcome the fact that we have had a dual model. Universities of applied sciences and universities have their own higher education policy and education policy tasks, and I think that the most sensible thing we can do is to provide sufficient funding to strengthen the conditions for both of these tasks. I personally welcome the fact that flexible cooperation is being improved, and I understand that Tampere 3 is being set up specifically.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u111	Mr President! I have not finished my last speech, and I wanted to take another floor to make sure that this final proposal, in which we are also involved, is still on the table. In other words, in order to respect democratic principles, I hope that the election of the new headmaster will be left to the first actual government of the new university and that the transitional government will be made up of the current university governments. This transitional government should immediately initiate the process of assembling a multi-member Governing Body, the first task of which would be the choice of the actual government, which would then, in time, elect the actual Rector of that new university. Some of the speeches and discussions were made when we talked about these pains, and I think it came to light here too that the principal can be changed at a later stage. I see that it is precisely with such alternatives that it is stated that it will be possible to do so at a later stage that only further risks will be created for an extremely important project, for which it is extremely important for its success, but also for the smooth functioning of this process. As has been said here, and when you think about this fine whole yourself, you cannot help but wonder and wonder whose interest this proposal is ultimately in favour of, that what we have in the end really is the obstacle to not being able to hear the wishes expressed by these communities and also to carry out them in a concrete way. While we are reflecting on the whole on our table and how important it would be for its success to be seen as meaningful, we in this House should be extremely concerned at the moment precisely about the welfare and atmosphere of the community, because it is a hugely important part of all the steps that this project will have to take in practice over the next few months.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u112	Värderade Talman! Jag tror att det är viktigt för hela högskolefältet att den ox Tampere 3-Modellen förverkligas och lyckkas och ger oss goda exempel för hur man i framtiden kan bedriva högskole- och vetenskapspolitik på ett nowt jättt. Det jag tycker är synd i det ox sammanhanget, när vi talar om högskolorna och högskolepolitiken, är att det i visioninen för högskolorna år 2030 inte överhuvudt finns nämnt någonting om en eventuell gemensam lag för yrkeshögskolesektorn och universitetsektorn. Jag tror att det kommer att vara viktigt att utreda i framtiden för att vi ska kunna möjliggöra effecttivare användning av gemensamma resurser, utan att på något sätt gå åt dualmodellen. Här tycker jag att man måste reserve wastetydlig. Dualmodellen behövs, och de har helt oli ka utbildningspolitiska uppgifter, det vill säga yrkeshögskolorna och universiteten. Men ändå tror jag att det ligger i den finländska högskolepolitikens intresse att skapa någon form av gemensam högskolelagstiftning i framtiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u113	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 17/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u114	Mr President! We do have MPs here, but I am surprised that there is no more, because this is an excellent government proposal. This could have been presented even by the chairman of the committee. After all, this is a major change in the law of free civilised work. If and when this law is adopted, the administrators of a folk high school, study centre, adult education centre or summer university shall be granted 100 % of the central government contribution to the training organised by the administrator of an educational institution that has been approved in the student integration plan. Therefore, students could not be charged tuition fees to the extent that the education has been accepted in the student integration plan. This presentation is now shaping and putting into practice, in my opinion, a well-suited training model for immigrants, in which the transfer of the numeracy and writing skills of immigrants from the Ministry of Education and Culture will take place from the beginning of next year. Mr President! There is another excellent thing about this government proposal. On application, the Ministry of Education and Culture could decide that the central government will now increase to 80% if the law is passed to the adult education centre, whose main educational function is education for people with disabilities who are severely disabled and who now receive a State contribution of 57%. I very much welcome the new model of education and funding, which is the subject of both amendments to the law. The proposal significantly strengthens the role of the various forms of liberal education in the integration of immigrants. As I am sure many of us know — but I would like to remind you — even now those involved in liberal education, adult teachers, have experience and know-how in terms of the knowledge and skills needed for immigrant training. Now, this new excellent situation simply means in practice that those who are not entitled to measures under the integration plan will then have the advantage, apart from the possibility. In this context, the committee jointly registered with the committee's report: 'The committee considers it necessary to have a sufficient number of student vouchers available for the training needs of these groups of immigrants outside the reform.' This is a serious speech by the representative of the opposition party, in which the government's proposal was presented a little bit. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u115	Mr President! As already stated above, the government's proposal would allow the administrators of a folk high school, a study centre, an adult education centre and a summer university to receive 100 per cent of the central government's share in education maintained by an educational institution approved in the student integration plan. According to the proposal, students could not be charged for the part of the education approved in the integration plan. It is also proposed that this law should be amended so that the Ministry of Education and Culture could decide, on application, that more than 57% of the state contribution, i.e. the current law, should not exceed 80% of the population college's main educational tasks for people with disabilities. Such a special folk high school is, for example, the Union of Deafs College in Helsinki. Mr President! The Finnish Parliament Group considers that it is a step in the right direction to make education systems more flexible and better developed. It is therefore necessary to make liberal education and training as flexible as possible in order to better respond to the challenges of the present and, of course, of the future. However, we criticise the reform of the training model for immigrants in this way, as proposed by the government. The increase in the level of education and employment of immigrants is a very, very important issue for the national economy, but in a world of scarce resources it is necessary to ensure that resources are allocated correctly. And when assessing this government proposal, account should be taken of the index freezes planned for next year's funding of free civilised work, which will be discussed later in this same plenary session. The Finns are very pleased that the second amendment of the Government proposal concerns the funding of some special folk colleges, namely the Lehtimäki College and the Kuurojen kansanopisto. The aim has long been to find a permanent overall solution to the financing of these colleges so that the special needs of these colleges do not need to be covered annually by additional appropriations in the state budget, as has unfortunately been the case so far. Ensuring long-term funding for the development of the activities of these colleges is a sensible solution. This government proposal ensures adequate funding for these colleges through a significant increase in central government contributions — from 57 to 80 %. Mr President! However, we are unhappy that, according to the proposal, education for people with severe disabilities could receive a State contribution of up to 80%, while the state of integration training for immigrants would be 100% in the future. We therefore consider the proposal to be inconsistent in this respect and propose that the draft law be amended to ensure that the percentages of state participations in integration training and training for people with disabilities are uniform, i.e. both 80% in this case. We propose amendments to Articles 9 and 10 of the Act in accordance with our objections. Mr President! To conclude, the Finns of Peru consider it a good thing that reasonable fees can also be charged to students in the future. However, in this proposal, the fee would not be charged for the education provided for in the Act on the Promotion of Integration, which is part of the student integration plan, and we believe that students should be treated equally in this respect in the legislation. We therefore propose to delete the amendment to Article 24(1) contained in this report by the Committee on Culture. In detail, we will be tabling amendments to the paragraph that we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u116	Mr President! The government proposal is excellent, as has been said here. The proposal emphasises the importance of free cultural work for the integration of immigrants. The aim is to create a training model for immigrant literacy training that takes into account the diversity of immigrants. This model offers better opportunities, especially for people who would otherwise have difficulty in taking part in full-time training. The proposal does not burden the financial situation of the organisers, but is financed by the State. In addition, the strengths of the proposal are that there will be no cost to the immigrant when it is included in the person’s integration plan. The proposal makes excellent use of the skills and competences of the actors involved in liberal education in immigrant training and further improves their role in integration. The proposal is necessary and contributes especially to the well-being of the most vulnerable people. And, as has been said here, the same proposal also proposes that the Ministry of Education and Culture should decide, on application, that more than 57% of the state contribution could be granted to an administrator of a folk high school whose main educational function is education for people with disabilities, and this is also an extremely good proposal. Perhaps the attention that the People's Academy Association has raised on various occasions and to which they have drawn attention should be given to the possibility for disabled students to apply for the training they want, and the state participation should follow the student in the future: the Committee on Education and Culture has made its own statement on this same subject in the past, in other words, the obstacles to free choice of educational institutions for disabled students should be removed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u117	Mr President! The True Finns state that in many respects the government’s proposal 140 must be supported. There are a number of shortcomings which led us to object in the Committee on Education and Rural Development. We believe that the government's proposal is creating a new training model that meets the needs of immigrants through the educational activities of liberal education. The administrators of a folk high school, study centre, adult education centre or summer university would be granted 100 per cent of the central government's share in education maintained by an educational institution approved in the student integration plan. Students could not be charged tuition fees to the extent that they were accepted in the student integration plan. The flexibility of study opportunities for literacy and writing has also been done for immigrants. The law is also being amended so that the Ministry of Education and Culture could decide, on application, that a folk high school administrator, whose main educational function is education for people with disabilities, will receive more than 57% of the state contribution, but not more than 80%. Such a special folk high school is, for example, the Union of Deafs College in Helsinki. In principle, it is good that education systems should be made more flexible and developed, but we do not support the reform of the training model for immigrants as proposed. The second amendment concerns the financing of certain specialised national colleges. The proposal is very good for the activities of these colleges, but we are still unhappy that, according to the proposal, education for people with severe disabilities can receive a maximum of 80% of the state contribution, while, at the same time, the state of integration training for immigrants would be 100% in the future. The percentages of state participation in integration training and training for people with severe disabilities should be uniform, so I support the amendment proposed by Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u118	Mr President! The Government’s proposal is indeed excellent and it is excellent because it enables immigrants to become truly integrated into Finnish society. Another extremely important issue is that this law will enable us to better guarantee the rights of children and young people with disabilities to education and schooling. This is also an extremely important reform, which has been expected and needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u119	Mr President! As Mr Gustafsson's speech, among other things, has already pointed out, this is indeed a welcome and good draft law. This will thus improve the opportunities for liberal educational institutions to organise integration training. This proposal will at least bring some relief to the institutions of liberal education for the financial distress caused by government cuts and, in addition, facilitate language learning for immigrants who have received a residence permit in accordance with the integration plan. I also have to wonder a little about this logic of fundamental Finns ’ protest. We talked about allocating resources in the right way, but what would be more effective at allocating resources than targeting them in language learning and integration from the point of view of integration and also from the point of view of the employment of immigrants, and this proposal also explicitly increases the funding of educational institutions for liberal education, i.e. it improves the economic situation of these institutions. If the Finns of Peru are concerned about this consistency, why did they not propose to increase the limit of this state’s share to 100% for all education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u120	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson for his words. He said friendly words about the good government proposal, and this statement by Mr Gustafsson is nothing weak except that there were very few representatives of the government parties to hear — I think five of us are present at the moment — but it remains in the Minutes that Mr Gustafsson has spoken such fine words. My guess is that it has also been somewhat influenced by this rising Christmas spirit and the celebration of independence, but thank you for your kind words. This government proposal is very good and worthy of support. Of course, the only way forward for those who remain in Finland is to integrate, learn a language and then gradually become a member of Finnish society, so that, for example, they can do what is currently most expected in Finland, namely work for the Finns, and start building their own life in a new faith. As we know, there are currently a huge shortage of labour in a great many sectors in this city and in a very large number of cities and municipalities in Finland. I just looked at the statistics for one municipality with a crying shortage: two companies were applying for a new workforce in that locality, and there is nowhere to find a workforce, even though there are 350 unemployed in the municipality. After all, there is a rather strange situation where there is a huge shortage of labour, when there is no workforce, companies are shouting at a shortage of labour. When the resources of liberal education are genuinely used for this integration and people are trained in a new profession, first of all, of course, language skills and learning Finnish systems, and then into the profession and thus into the working world, that is the right way. It must be remembered that many localities, for example in adult education centres, have the skills that have been practiced there for decades, are familiar with local conditions and there are skilled teachers, and this must certainly be used and directed towards the integration of these people who come here, and that is how they become integrated into Finnish society and into Finnish working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u121	Mr President! Let's keep this up. Thank you, Mr Hoskonen, for your thoughts. Furthermore, your speech was very well placed in all respects when you are also talking about labour shortages. It is also a regional issue in many respects. I asked for the floor, Mr President, to speak on this motion by the Finns on which Mr Andersson has already intervened by saying that, if you were to be consistent and in need of help, you would have made it difficult to increase the education allowance for people with disabilities from this 80%. But now I do not want to be hypocritical about it, because we did not present it in this context either, when it rose from 57 to 80. And now that I understand something about education policy and its funding, this would also have required a much more in-depth discussion in the committee, to which I understand that the government parties had neither the desire nor the interest. This was good enough as it is. But this protest from the Finns of Peru says: "The increase in the level of education and employment of immigrants is important for the national economy, but in a world of scarce resources it must not be at the expense of the native population."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u124	Mr President! It is easy to join with the praisers who have praised this bill in this respect, but it can be acknowledged to the government. It is excellent that the organiser receives full compensation for this integration training for immigrants. As has often been mentioned here, the key to membership of society and working life comes from getting adequate education, learning the language and getting involved in building a society. Another extremely important issue here is precisely this increase in the state share of education for people with severe disabilities. We know that there are many people with disabilities who are equally willing to study so that they can then live independently, thereby improving the quality of their own lives and also being better, in the same way, part of our society. It is therefore easy to agree with this view of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that, in the future, personal assistance under the Disability Services Act should also be ensured in the long-term training of the liberal educational work of the adult education institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u125	Mr President! There is no doubt that immigrants need a high level of language skills training in order to be better integrated into Finnish society. This is a society in which education is needed in every sector of industry and working life, and that is why education must be in order, that is clear. Language language learning and other integration education are available flexibly in educational institutions for liberal education. It is therefore essential to make use of these educational institutions in the field of liberal education in order to organise education. Discretionaryness in this funding is a good principle, but the full state contribution provided for at the level of the law leaves no room for manoeuvre in that regard, and in this respect it is difficult for us to accept. It must also be remembered that the education of the Finnish unemployed must be invested in. Mr Gustafsson mentioned something about labour shortages, but I understand that there are still 270,000 unemployed people in Finland. Their education must also be invested in. As I recall, Mr Gustafsson has not signed this bill on the abolition of access to labour, for which he has all the credit, but seven Social Democrats have signed it. We consider this to be a very regrettable matter. Yes, we must ensure that there will also be opportunities for Finnish unemployed people to work in the future. Representative Andersson also asked why the Finns of Finland do not want to increase the central government share to 100% in all respects. Well, this has to do with the same thing. We believe that some form of ownership must be maintained, as is the case with all other groups of students. That is why we have decided to present this 80% in a uniform way to both groups. The committee's expert hearings also showed that there has already been enough cutbacks in liberal education. The index freezes are under discussion at this later part-session and we are opposed to them. We want basic funding for liberal education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u126	Mr President! First of all, Mr Savio: of course, it is worth noting that within these figures there are quite a significant number of unemployed immigrants living in Finland, and the unemployment rate of immigrants is at least double all the time, sometimes at a higher level in some cities, so that we do need all kinds of activity in this respect. Well, that is not why I asked to speak, but because many people here have thanked this good proposal and I can, of course, join that group as a member of the committee. I would like to emphasise that this is also a good example of how this society works at its best: during the previous government term, when we had our new integration law and it was made the first integration programme in Finnish history, many actors were then asked to consider how it could actually be carried forward and implemented. This initiative came precisely from this field of free civilised work, which is now going to become final. This just seems to me to be an excellent illustration of how this type of civil society has such creativity, agility and the ability to think in a new way and to make their own knowledge available when the situation in society demands it. Unfortunately, we cannot fail to refer here to the second proposal of 10 today, which, in some way, in some way is somewhat unfortunate in the context of these index freezes, but which we are now about to adopt. But this as a small historical anecdote, perhaps, that it is always remembered when things go into preparation, that sometimes they also become ready. In this case, it came to an excellent conclusion, and it is great that this integration training, now 100% funded, really starts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u127	Mr. Speaker! I believe that this line presented by Mrs Elomaa and Mr Savio is very consistent and emphasises equality. I do think that every time a state supports someone, it should be the responsibility of the person to whom the subsidy is given, because the education organiser uses it as a business if everything is paid for on the other hand. Now that we have 20% ownership once for disabled people, it may also be that the organiser of education pays 20% for immigrants as well. There's nothing special about it. It is healthy, and I would really like to stress that ownership always brings posture to action: a closer look at the economy, a more careful look and a search for savings. Why, then, do you Social Democrats not, for example, present 100% of this side of the disabled, which is 80%, when you are now prepared to defend this inconsistent model — one in 100, the other in 80. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u128	Mr President! The representatives Kankaanniemi and Savio made a good point in this government proposal on the nuclear issue of Finns. Of course, the importance of free cultural work is enormous for Finns, and indeed, when the government's proposal comes in 99 later, we will make our own point. Integration of immigrants through language skills and other education is a positive thing, of course. But when Mr Gustafsson here raised the issue of literacy, I would also like to underline the fact that there are major shortcomings in the native population at the moment and that is a major problem that will make future jobs more difficult for the people of Central Finland as well. So we should also invest in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u129	Mr President! I cannot support putting weak groups against each other in this debate. Of course we need to improve the quality of comprehensive school so that everyone gets sufficient literacy in comprehensive school and then succeeds later in their studies and in the labour market. I think we should think that the field of free education in this 100-year-old Finland is a guarantee that all different groups of people will receive the cultural and educational services they deserve and the rights that citizens have. New Finns, immigrants, are a group whose training through the liberal field of education is naturally part of the job of these actors. We all know, as Mrs Elomaa said there, that guaranteeing language and integration training for immigrants is a benefit for society as a whole. It should therefore be seen as an investment rather than an expense. It is clear that we Finns, the whole of Finnish society, will be net beneficiaries when we get enough language skills and integration training for immigrants who come to Finland as an adult, so that they will be able to find employment and raise tax resources in a common fund, so I would like to see this kind of positive law here more praise than criticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u130	Mr President! I don't know how much it's worth running the same album now. I would've expected Congressman Kankaanniemi to... — which I still remember from the time when you stressed Christian conviction and this type of thing. I sometimes miss the representative Kankaanniemi, because the fact is that the Finns of Peru are not very strong in this matter. Mr Kankaanniemi said in his speech that there should be equal treatment so that education and training providers do not do business. Representative Kankaanniemi knows that our folk high schools are non-profit associations, communities that have a very broad NGO base that do not do business. They don't do business. In this respect, the basic arguments of the Finns are that we are on slippery ice, and fortunately there is no slippery ice now, so you will not drown.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u132	Mr President! All that can be done through free civilised work and otherwise, in order for immigrants to integrate and find employment, is for the benefit of Finnish society. And the more successful it is, the better we can afford all education, the better we can afford in comprehensive school to improve the things that we are now concerned about when the Finnish Pisa rating has fallen and indeed there is alarming information that young people who cannot properly read end the comprehensive school. Employment of immigrants will improve our chances of correcting these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u133	Mr President! Of course, in the debate on education policy, the creation of equal conditions must be at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u138	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 24/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u139	Mr President! The Government’s proposal under discussion is about the state’s share of municipalities and their revisions, inter alia because of a reduction in early childhood education fees, which are compensated for by this proposal to the municipalities. At the same time, some new and expanding tasks will be taken into account, of which 100% will be replaced by municipalities, taking into account the savings provided by the Kiki agreement and their impact on local government finances. President! When this government started, it took a completely different line in relation to the local government than the previous government had taken. After all, there was a policy that made the necessary adjustment of the central government itself, mainly by cutting off municipalities, and these cuts were made up to a level of 3 billion. This was particularly evident at the time as the ability of municipalities to provide basic services, but when this government decided in principle that the municipalities would no longer be cut, however, it has begun to appear in such a way that local government economies are now in record good condition. I don't know if it's a coincidence or what, but when you look back a bit, for twenty years, it seems that whenever the centre is in the government, the local government finances will improve, and when the centre is not in the government, then the municipality in particular will be cut off. This is something to look at and think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u145	Mr President! I would be happy if I could sometimes have this confidence myself that there was no surgery, because I think there was also news last week that also came out of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities that municipalities had to invest their own money to maintain primary school at the present level — primary school. So it has also been cut, as has other levels of education. And here we are. [MarkusLohi requests a reply ] — I'm just getting started. [Laughter] — in the case of municipalities, it should be noted that the municipalities have managed their own finances quite well, but most of it has been made by local government decision-makers, not by the state. That is why I am presenting here our objection to this very draft law, which, as always every year, is subject to state aid checks in relation to the budget, because although it was, of course, very justified and good that additional funding was introduced in the supplementary budget for municipalities, the government's proposal still remains a minus mark, a minus mark of 30 million. [Markus Salmon Interval]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u146	Mr President! Mr Paatero there pointed out very precise figures on what may have been left uncompensated, and some of them, I confess, are true. It is also true that it is difficult, in practice, to achieve the savings that the competitiveness pact will bring to the municipalities in the field in full. But when these talk about tens of millions, I wanted to point out in my speech that there is, after all, a huge, big difference between the previous regime, which talked about thousands of millions, not tens, but thousands of millions. The second point I would like to address is the concentration regulation. You said in your speech, Mr President, that no matter how much effort has been made to squeeze the savings of EUR 300 million, they have not been made. Well, of course, when it comes into force next year, the concentration regulation will not be able to take such measures. It is true that there are certainly challenges there too, but they could not have been created yet, because this concentration regulation has not yet entered into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u147	Mr President! We should really look at the last parliamentary term here at the beginning. We know that at the end of 2010 the municipalities had a total debt of EUR 10 billion, rather evenly. And when the last parliamentary term ended, that debt balance had grown from about 17 billion — or 10 to 17. The debt of municipalities and joint municipal boards grew by approximately 7 billion during the last parliamentary term. Once this is known, it can be said that the situation changed radically when the government negotiations were held in 2015. It should also be noted that during the last parliamentary term almost all municipalities raised their tax rate and a huge number of municipalities laid off staff, laid off and so on. In other words, the local government finances were completely lost during the last parliamentary term, and the parties that were in the government know this. And of course the opposition knows. In other words, municipal services were hard-hit during the last parliamentary term. When the government negotiations were held in 2015, I was part of the municipal working group, and it was decided that during this parliamentary term the state would replace the municipalities with all the activities laid down in the legislation as tasks for municipalities, and that the municipalities' finances would not be weakened by other measures. Well, this happened for the first two years, but now the government has gone a little different. A year ago, when we were dealing with the state budget, I remember very well that there were EUR 39 million plus from the point of view of the municipalities. So the municipalities were getting 39 million more according to the state budget this year. Today, the draft report on the budget of the section which I chair in the Committee on Finance, the Section for Local Government and Health, was discussed and we said that next year the municipalities will lose EUR 70 million. So the turning point has been that this year the municipalities will be on the side of the plus, but next year 70 million minuses. Well, this is not, of course, a huge sum, knowing, for example, that the central government share of basic services amounts to EUR 8.6 billion in euros. That's a pretty small amount of $70 million. And with growth in employment and the economy, thanks to the measures taken in this early period and the rise in the global economy, it is quite certain that the finances of municipalities will be strengthened through tax revenue, lower unemployment and lower social expenditure. That is why the Finns did not object to the bill or the report, because it might have been a bit of so-called tinkering now. As a result of the reduction in early childhood education fees, municipalities are suffering EUR 25 million because, fortunately, this is not the case at the moment because the minimum threshold for real estate tax has been imposed. It would have been the wrong target, and in that sense it would have been unnecessary. We have just talked about the extension of the six-minute working hours of the kiky agreement, the renewals of special medical care and index cuts. These will have the effect that next year the municipalities will really suffer the loss of that small operation. And we must also agree with what Mr Paatero said, that the government has now taken up the practice of cutting state funding in advance, even in the various administrative sectors, even though the measures to be reduced themselves will not come into force until later. Even in the case of municipalities, there are such items of expenditure which should not yet be included. Nevertheless, the municipal economy is now in good shape, thanks to the first two years of Sipilä’s government’s policy, in which the Finns of Finland were involved — and would still have liked to be doing things better than it is now, but that is the case, and that is how it will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u149	Mr President! Speaking of compensation: I cannot refrain from taking the floor on how the government compensates municipalities for reducing early childhood education fees. In the parliamentary procedure, the Government gave up raising the lower limit of real estate taxes. As I recall, this meant some EUR 25 million for municipalities, i.e. compensation was not obtained for this amount. Well, what will the government do next? Yeah, the government says to the Committee on Education that municipalities do not need compensation because the income from real estate taxes has grown beyond expectations. In other words, there will not be a cent of compensation for these reductions in payments, so yes I would say that the government has been very creative here, and this is a very dangerous road if we start saying to the municipalities in this way that you do not need compensation, even if there are new payments or expenses for you, because the revenue from this tax and this tax has increased beyond expectations. This is not honest, and I think it is a policy of compensation at all. I hope this is the last time the government will be motivated in this way not to... Or when the government doesn't...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u150	Mr President! This criticism from Mr Nylander is quite right, though. In that sense, I will accept it as a representative of the Government Party, but of course I will draw attention to this big picture, which is very good for the finances of the municipalities now. I'm happy about that. Regarding what Mr Paatero said in his own speech, that basic education has been cut: I do not remember the state budget of this parliamentary term, which contained some kind of cut in the proportion of the state of the municipalities and was directed towards basic education. This has not happened. On the contrary, the line that has been taken here at the beginning of the government negotiations has been stated that the municipalities will not be cut off. In other words, the fact that the balancing of central government finances, which must be done, is managed by means of instruments other than the cuts in central government shares, has meant that basic education and upper secondary school have not had to be cut at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u151	Mr President! As has been said here, lowering early childhood education fees is a very good thing for customers, but of course it is negative for the local economy. It should also be remembered that what the government, with one hand, gives to families with children takes away with the other hand, let me say, almost by force through the removal of child allowance. In particular, it should be noted that in families with only school-age children, these reductions in early childhood education contributions do not help at all: child reduction costs them up to EUR 400 per year in clean income. Fortunately, due to strong opposition from the opposition, this forced increase in the lower limits of property taxes was not carried out by the government. It was a good decision and would in no way have solved the problem which, unfortunately, the local government economy faces from this non-compensatory reduction in early childhood education fees of EUR 25 million. We Finns of Finland will submit this draft law on the reduction of early childhood education fees at second reading, in which Parliament requires the Government to compensate for these reductions in payment income for municipalities due to the reduction in early childhood education fees. I hope that the whole of Parliament will be able to agree with our future statement. It is also clear, in accordance with the Government Programme, that the obligations or statutory reductions in payment income imposed on municipalities should be replaced by the state. This parliamentary term has progressed largely in this direction and must continue to be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u152	Mr President! What is being discussed here is what is being compensated and what is not. I think it is important that, if that task comes through state law, compensation is made so that the municipalities can live. But then I would also remind all municipal decision-makers how these funds are being used in the municipality. Last week there was a rather wide-ranging debate on the decision of the City Council of Helsinki to guarantee more extensive health services to illegal residents. If I start to think about it, I think that if the City of Helsinki can afford to provide additional services, one might think about the compensation that it should then reduce their share of the state, on the one hand, if it can afford to provide additional services specifically to those who are illegally resident. At least this has caused me quite a flood of mail. People have been asking for it, and this is always good to remember, of course. Secondly, to what question it raises: for example, today we have dealt with the law on social protection, and it has addressed the question of local self-determination, so that the municipalities do not take decisions such as they have now taken in the midst of this war. The question arises — when questions were then asked about how Helsinki can help illegal immigration and make temptations if, on the one hand, the state and parliament, under the leadership of the government, at least in the past, try to limit this — why can't it be tackled? In reply to the Minister's box, I received the answer that, given that local sovereignty — sometimes it can be tackled with the will, and sometimes it cannot be intervened, but through funding it can be tackled with the help of guidance. This is good for municipal decision-makers to remember that if you have that money elsewhere, then that's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u153	Mr President! It is very important for the state to support municipalities in order to enable municipalities to provide basic services. The fall in central government shares directly affects the fact that in some services the level of services may deteriorate and deteriorate, and one of these is the situation of elderly care, for example, where savings are sought from one year to the next, from one government to the next, the savings in care for the elderly will always come. After all, the latest savings are now being made with the personnel dimension, that is to say, those other than those who have been trained by the carer, and all those who are involved in this so-called direct customer work, which may be, for example, shopping, may be e-mailing, telephone contact with the customer, and running things, i.e. away from the patient, will be counted as being a nurse’s appointment at that time. In their own alternative budget, the Finns have presented in the Home, Care and Care section, where special attention is paid to elderly people and family carers, an old-age package in which the staffing of carers should be secured by law, and we also suggest that the nursing staff size should be 0.6 instead of 0.5. Mr President! We still have an amendment to the Social Welfare Act to pay for the social services provided by municipalities to persons who are illegally resident, which is precisely what we are about to see today, for example this case in Helsinki, which is the opening up of healthcare services to those who are illegally resident, but at the same time the state will be able to pay for these social services. Services will not be expanded, but the payment man will be found somewhere else, which means that the spike is open in that respect, and it is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u154	Mr President! In Helsinki, health care services were indeed extended to the undocumented, but it was therefore a decision by the majority of the democratically elected Helsinki City Council, which I personally consider to be well-founded and good for the well-being and safety of the entire population. For example, the savings of vaccination coverage are for the benefit of all of us, and it is good that epidemics are prevented before they are born. In fact, it should not talk about costs but, as it were, think that we are saving and guaranteeing security for everyone. I don't think there's going to be the kind of cost that's being intimidated here. I do not think that people are going across Europe or the world to pick up antibiotics, and on the other hand, it is entirely human and in accordance with international agreements that we are giving treatment to the undocumented who are here today, and we are also not endangering the health of the rest of the population by leaving sick people untreated and unvaccinated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u155	Mr President! However, it is about money and our common tax resources in all municipalities, and that is why I have just raised that debate. Today we have dealt with the restriction law and we are interfering with the sovereignty of the municipalities and, on the other hand, we are not interfering, we are not even trying to interfere. We also have Lex Malmi here at the hearing, which has not yet been completed. It is also a question of municipal self-government. It is good to remember that Parliament is, however, the supreme legislative body and we need to consider how our tax resources are spent. Someone may see it as a saving, someone may see it as a attraction, and I believe that our tax resources are, however, intended for those in the country legally. Of course, if you consider that there are funds, then, for example, for Helsinki, Parliament should consider what it costs and whether it should reduce such sums from Helsinki. At least the day after the decision, Helsingin Sanomat wrote that no one knows what this is going to cost, so in that sense I do not know where the Greens are going to make this savings. The Finns Party and the Coalition Party have understood this and I would therefore also like to thank the members of the Coalition Party for their work in the Helsinki Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u156	Mr President! In this paperless debate in Helsinki, I would like to inform you that, according to estimates, there are 1000 to 2000 undocumented people in our country, probably the majority of whom are in Helsinki. Based on this assessment, this decision represents 0.03% of social and health expenditure in Helsinki, which means that no terrible financial risk is mentioned when the Helsinki budget is 4.5 billion. Where we hope that savings will be made here or, most likely, savings will be made is that urgent treatment has in any case already been an obligation and now we will be able to maintain the vaccine coverage, so that things can be prevented and that diabetes does not need to be treated with expensive acute care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u157	Mr President! Mr Modig did say everything. I myself was at that meeting, I proudly voted in favour of this progressive, humane and caring and responsible approach, of course. Well, one aspect is, of course, this aspect of prevention, it costs much less than the fact that people are in the condition that they are on call. That's how we get savings. Secondly, it is human and, in fact, the bigger question is why this Parliament is unable to legislate to safeguard the situation of people in distress throughout Finland. I think that's a good question. It is not the shame of Helsinki that Helsinki makes better decisions than this Parliament. It is certainly not a disgrace in Helsinki, and I am very pleased that there is a progressive council in Helsinki that is capable of these decisions, which are economically sound, which are human. I believe that Helsinki will continue in the same way and set an example. It is great to be at the Helsinki Council to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u158	Mr President! This debate has now been somewhat distracted by the actual issue of the debate on the authorisation or acceptance of a certain degree of undocumented health care by Helsinki. As several Members have already said, Mr Modig and others, it is actually a decision that improves our lives and saves costs. Similar discussions have been held in Finland in the past, for example, on exchange points for drug injectors. They have been opposed in the past because it is an illegal activity. However, we have prevented a huge number of HIV infections and also hepatitis infections. It is one of the ways in which the spread of HIV infection has been limited in Finland, and it is in the interests of all of us. This is also the way we should view the health care of the undocumented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u159	Mr President! Representatives Meri and Juvonen have just pointed out that the state does not have enough money to distribute for all possible purposes, and referred to the decision of the City Council of Helsinki on Wednesday to offer illegal residents a wide range of free social and health services. Indeed, in future, undocumented persons will have the right to treatment of chronic diseases, dental treatment, vaccination, mental health services, legal advice and many other services. And these services are also advertised on the city’s website in several languages, including Somali and Arabic. This decision taken by the Helsinki City Council on Wednesday has, understandably, led to a wide-ranging and very critical civil debate and, in particular, the Green Left, the Centre and the RKP delegates who voted in favour of the decision have not just been commended. And I don't thank you in this room either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u164	At this stage, the speakers have been asked to speak: Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Modig. I agree with them, but let me say that we are a long way from this actual issue, so I would ask that, after these speeches, we return to the debate on the system of state subsidies for municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u165	Mr President! When we talk about paperless people, we talk about a very small group of people and about the costs, which, as Mr Modig has rightly pointed out, are, in fact, promille and the total budget for social and health care. Congressman Meri asked me where I pictured the savings coming from. I can answer this question and I am happy to answer it. It comes from prevention, and that is why doctors, the Medical Association, as well as the National Institute for Health and Welfare, have supported the health care of the undocumented and the extension of the vaccination programme to them. I myself think, as I have said, that we are not going to have to cut back on the services of the general population because we are expanding the services of undocumented health care, but we are taking care of the health and safety of the entire population in this way and, for example, because of vaccination coverage. All you have to do is calculate how much the epidemic would cost if you imagine that a disease we have as if we have already overcome, or a new disease that we cannot imagine now, would come and make a large part of the population sick. You just have to imagine how much it would cost. I can only refer here to the calculations of experts which were presented here, for example, when we were discussing this very proposal last season and then when we were discussing the Act on communicable diseases. This same debate was also taking place in connection with this Act on communicable diseases, and a large number of experts and indeed the majority, the majority of experts, were in favour of guaranteeing these health services and social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u166	Mr President! To Mr Savilo, I would like to say that, when you listed these issues, to which this decision now justifies undocumented people, you left out the most essential word: 'essential'. You continue to give such a picture as this decision would now make available to undocumented health care services that Finns do not have access to. That is simply not true. You should take a look at this decision, and then it could be more fruitful to discuss it together. I understand that the Finns of Finland are in the grip of this misunderstanding, as the President of the Finns of Finland, of course, spoke in the council of 'enlarged social and health services' when it comes to the minimum necessary. These are therefore the same services that asylum seekers receive. This conversation needs to stay in the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u167	I would like to point out that the speeches have been made here by Mr Mikkonen, Mr Yanar, Mr Meri and Mr Juvonen, but I would like to say that this is not a debate on the rights of the undocumented and that I hope that the next speeches will return to this debate on state participation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u168	Mr President! I would like to return to this debate on state subsidies, and perhaps I should like to point out here that I believe that the self-government of municipalities includes the fact that they can finance services other than purely statutory services with the tax money they collect, but when the State imposes certain statutory services, the State must then ensure that they are financed at an adequate level. In that sense, it may be quite gratifying that this proposal, which we are dealing with now, slightly increases these central government shares of basic services. It is very welcome, and it is very welcome that this idea of carrying out new and expanding tasks, with a central government share of 100 %, which is the line of the Government Programme. This is something that has, of course, been hoped for for quite a long time that, when new tasks come to the municipalities, their funding will also be welcomed. But then it has to be said that, as Mr Paatero said earlier, the central government shares in the municipalities as a whole are at a disadvantage, because there has been no account of the index freezes and the additional costs they entail, and then there is this kiky agreement, which was actually a cut, because it could not reduce the staff by an increase of six minutes' working time so that it would have become genuine savings. Then I have to say what was raised in this debate that this issue, that 100% of new and expanding tasks will be replaced, is a very good policy change but worrying is the change that is made in the cuts in municipalities' state contributions to such decisions, which assume some savings that are already being cut directly from the municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u169	Mr President! I understand the President's point of view that we should return to the original subject of debate, but my final comments relate to this issue, and I will not comment further. First of all, I would like to thank the Helsinki Group for voting in favour of this humane solution as a whole. I say to this intimidation that it's wrong. No one comes thousands of miles on a dangerous journey because of the vaccines. And, as has been said earlier, an estimated 0.03% of social costs would obviously be going to this, and prevention can save money. The message sent by Helsinki is probably relatively clear: Helsinki wants to take care of its own, but also of all others who live in Finland, and we can do this, and these do not exclude each other. I find it really strange to see the Finns of Finland talking about Finns who are underprivileged. After all, you were never interested in the underprivileged Finns at any time when you were in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u174	Mr President! I dare to say that we are paying for the health services of those who are illegally in the country, even if Mr Yanar disapproves. Now that we've been accused, I want to defend myself. A short while ago, TNS Gallup commissioned a study on what would be desired to do to illegal converts: 67% of the supporters of the government said they should be detained, up to 48% of the Greens' supporters, 59% of the SDP supporters. A majority of Finns would like those illegally detained. I cannot understand the justification here for providing services to illegal residents, and then it is said that 'no, this is now such a small sum'. It's a gravitational factor. The Coalition Party and the True Finns understood that. It was mentioned that the autonomy of municipalities must be recognised. That's right. When I started this debate, I said that, of course, statutory services should be provided with funds, but if the municipality has extra funds to afford services to illegal residents, then we can see if they can be reduced. I understand that Savio, the representative of the Finns, meant that they do not receive the same services free of charge. Finns have health centre fees, responsibilities. These illegals receive these free of charge — and now Mr Modig has already left — and this meant that Finns do not receive them free of charge. Many complain to me, for example, about the cost of the prosthetic, and you say that is a small matter. Oh, my goodness, those low-income Finns can't afford these dental repairs. There is only talk of vaccination — there is much more, mental health services and everything. You don't have to belittle this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u175	Mr President! I am surprised to hear Mr Yanar's speech on how we are being treated here or how we can talk about poverty. In my opinion, poverty can be talked about from one government to another. In just the same way, if you start looking at history, you too have made very hurtful decisions on your part, including this nurseship, during your reign, but now you are about to do something else. We are in this group, represented and represented here by the Finns, on the side of the low-income, poor person and, in particular, the pensioner, and these freezes of the indexes we are also opposed to in our alternative budget, and I will shortly present it in that toilet and propose to reject this bill. As far as the treatment of undocumented persons who are illegally resident is concerned, however, we must remember that they are illegal residents, and when I asked in committee how other countries deal with the extension of social services, among other things, the municipality itself in Sweden pays for extended social services, the state does not participate in them, and the person in Denmark who is illegally resident must leave the country. I didn't get any other information, despite the fact that I asked. There was no response to the situation in Europe. As far as these words are concerned, 'urgent' or 'essential', we have an article in the Act on Disease Control, which guarantees urgent care. Among other things, it is TB treatment, and it is all right, but the 'necessary' is an enormous extension of services, and it will then be necessary, rather than so urgent, to do so. Yes, dental care is one thing, where the cost is certain to come, let’s talk about anyone’s dental treatment. It is particularly important to monitor that the times given will be used up, because there has been a great deal of amazement and demand for these, that why the patient and the time given do not meet, that is to say, information needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u176	Mr President! I would just like to remind the people of Peru that the line you are driving here would mean all of us who live in Finland, who live in Finland, who live in Finland, who live in Finland, who have more illnesses, more costs for the health budget of society, and worse opportunities to finance everything we think necessary in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u177	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 15/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u178	Mr President! The government's original proposal contains two parts, one of which was withdrawn by the government before the committee had been brought to an end. The part that was cancelled by the government was the weakening of the housing allowance standard of a person living in a part-time dwelling, i.e. a group living in small dwellings, i.e. those living in dwellings of less than 20 square metres. The government withdrew this because it found that it was particularly strongly targeted at students. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously welcomes the withdrawal of this part of the Government's proposal and, accordingly, proposes to the Assembly that the amendment to Article 10 be deleted from the Government's proposal. The committee also stresses that group living should not be made more difficult, but, on the contrary, should be facilitated by providing clear guidance on how to live in a so-called group housing without losing their housing allowance. And the committee notes that there will also be a need in the future for innovative new solutions which involve different levels of community, for example, as a form of housing for older people, but also for other groups of people. Furthermore, the committee notes that there is currently a particularly strong demand for small dwellings and that changes to the system which further strengthen this demand should not be made, and it is therefore also pleased that this part of the proposal was withdrawn by the government. The second part of the Government's proposal is an index change so that the maximum amount of housing allowance would be linked to the cost index in the future, rather than to the rent index as it has been until now, and next year's maximum housing expenditure would be covered, i.e. an index freeze of one year. This is a savings decision and the committee disagrees on this point. The committee as a whole also states that the government's proposal estimates that about 40% of the savings in housing allowance thus obtained will be passed on to the cost of income support. I am also referring to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs criticises the fact that the beneficiaries are being directed here as recipients of last-time income support, but the majority of the committee is prepared to accept this part of the government's proposal. On this part of the government's proposal, Members of the Committee of the Party of European Socialists, the Left and the Greens have objected to the rejection of the government's proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u179	Mr President! We have another example of a government proposal that has been made in vain and hasty. As we have heard here, half of it has then been withdrawn during the committee's deliberations. However, it is extremely important that, at this stage at the latest, it was discovered that this proposal is completely incomprehensible. This issue was raised both in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the consultation of experts. The standard for part-time housing and the introduction of a separate maximum cost for housing expenditure for small dwellings of less than 20 square metres were found to be very poor, both from the point of view of housing support and from the point of view of general housing policy. From the point of view of general housing policy, this would have meant further pressure on the studios and further rising their rents, especially here in the capital region. We know that the price pressure is already very high. This aspect of housing support is also, as the chairman of the committee said here, that it would have particularly affected students. But even though the weakest link in this law was removed from the law, what remained in it, that is, this index change, in practice is a cut in housing allowance. In its proposed form, the change in the law undermines the general level of housing allowance, thus making the situation of the already most vulnerable citizens more difficult. In the Government's proposal, the maximum expenditure on general housing allowance would be linked to the cost-of-living index instead of the rent index, and next year's maximum expenditure will be frozen at this year's level. This proposal is justified by the desire to reduce the increase in housing subsidies due to the increase in rents. Against this, researchers such as Kela and VATTI have decided that the differences in housing allowance are not reflected in rents and the increase in housing allowance is not reflected in rents. On the other hand, the effects on the beneficiaries of the aid are indisputable. This change will exacerbate inequalities by reducing the livelihoods of the most vulnerable groups in the economy. This deterioration will also worsen over time if housing expenditure increases more than the cost-of-living index. All in all, the cuts proposed by the government are the wrong remedy to curb the increase in housing costs. The main problem with general housing allowance is the acceptable low rent level when granting support compared to market rents. The solution cannot be to weaken housing allowance, which leads to an increase in the share of ownership for an increasing number of people and the replacement of housing allowance with income support. This will not, therefore, generate savings, but additional costs, and the additional costs will be there for last resort income support. It is important to curb the rise in housing costs. I am sure we all agree on that, but it does not happen through the constant weakening of housing allowance. In terms of social policy, urban policy, community policy, it is important to have affordable housing, thereby having a genuine impact on the availability of housing and particularly affordable housing. To conclude, the report adopted by the committee was also very, very critical of this government proposal. In fact, what was included in the committee's report would suffice to say that this draft law should not be adopted on that basis, but this objection has been tabled to ensure that. It has suggested that this bill would not be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u180	Mr President! It is good to continue with Mrs Myller's good speech. We therefore have another proposal which will consciously increase the number of recipients of income support. This is very difficult to understand. Although the biggest craziness has now been removed or is being removed from this proposal — i.e. not to cut the housing allowance for small studios, less than 20 square metres, or for group-rooms — this still leaves in place the change from the rental index to the cost index of living and the maximum housing costs will be frozen to the level of 2017. When it is known that rents are growing much faster than the cost of living, this is a major deterioration in the level of housing allowance. Furthermore, in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal, the Government points out that the increase in rents and the increase in subsidies are mutually reinforcing. Statistics do not support this. If you look back at the statistics, in those years when housing allowance expenditure has been frozen or cut, the increase in rents has not been interrupted. There has been no unambiguous research on this, but most recently the matter has been investigated by VATT and their end result is that the impact of changes in housing allowance on rents is less than expected. On the other hand, there is clear evidence that the deterioration of housing allowance is reflected in the increase in income support expenditure. The only sustainable way to reduce housing allowance expenditure is to ensure that we have enough affordable housing — and particularly affordable rental housing. On two occasions, Minister Orpo, in his speech on the ministerial box, has shown that he does not know how the housing allowance system works. He justified previous housing allowance reductions by saying that the level of housing allowance affects the level of rents because the housing allowance covers 100 per cent of the rent. So far is the reality of the Minister of Finance as to the reality of the people who each month fight with their rent. I believe that the rest of Parliament is better informed, but as a reminder: we therefore have the maximum housing cost, which is defined by municipality. It does not cover 100 percent of the rent anywhere. Here in Helsinki it remains very, very far from 100%. We know that more than 70 per cent of the recipients of housing allowance exceed this, and in Helsinki housing allowance can easily be half the rent itself. In fact, I find it frightening that the Minister of Finance does not know the operation of one of the key support. But against that background it is no wonder that such presentations are brought to us. Thus, when this was originally intended to lower the housing allowance for, among other things, a group’s roommates, this idea is absurd. Small studios and flats are already one of the most affordable forms of housing. This change would have forced these people to look for more expensive housing for themselves because it would have been more profitable in terms of housing allowance. If living in a group room had been made unprofitable, people would have gone to search for studios, that is, the homes where the rents are already the highest, for which there is already the greatest demand. According to the Act on Demand and Supply, this would further increase the demand for dwellings with the greatest shortage. This, of course, leads to a rise in rents, which would be completely contrary to the government's argument. This would have been a complete saving for fools. Although these major craziness have been removed from the motion, the whole is still untenable. As stated in the Government's own proposal, lowering housing allowance will shift the focus from housing allowance to income support. As stated in the government's own proposal, it is estimated that 40% of the savings in housing allowance will be passed on to income support expenditure. The Government itself states in its proposal that the aid scheme and housing policy should be examined and developed as a whole. Surely no one seriously believes that this government has developed this as a whole and with a long-term perspective. When you write an objection, it makes you feel very paradoxical. All grounds for objection can be found in the government's own motion. If the government is unable to listen to the opposition or experts, you would at least listen to yourself. According to your own arguments, this whole proposal is unacceptable and should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u181	Mr President! Housing support expenditure has increased very much, i.e. by 741 million in 2014, but already in 2016 it was 1081 million. The growth has therefore been enormous and something has to be done to stop this development. At the same time, the level of rents has risen disproportionately, and yet we cannot get away with it. This is the situation, and something has to be done. The government has begun to take action, and this is one of the measures that will take this matter forward, and with this proposal we will be able to contain this situation at least a little. The sad thing is that this decision increases income support expenditure, but when this whole thing is that the increase in housing expenditure needs to be stopped, something has to be done, and this is a sensible option that has been found at this stage. [Heckling] The government's proposal then included part-time housing for students in particular and the maximum housing costs for dwellings of less than 20 square metres, this proposal applies to these. This is a proposal on these issues, and this proposal would now have involved more than 12,000 students, a very large number of people. Students have moved from student housing allowance to general housing allowance only 1.8.17. The change has only just been made, and this confused the performance that we are working on. This government proposal came to our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Housing matters as such belong to the Ministry of the Environment, and then housing support matters belong to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. At first we thought that this was a matter for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and that they had a responsibility in this regard, and we were not involved in the preparation of this proposal either. We were therefore given very little time to study this government proposal, the people of the committee. We then heard experts in committee, when we said that this part-time housing issue had been poorly prepared and did not meet the objectives of the law. The expert consultation in committee is therefore important, and it is up to us in that committee to check that the bad proposals do not go through. This went too far, no one can deny it, but this shows that we Members of the row in the committee are also very important and experts are important when they come forward. A sensible government can then stop bad proposals when we discuss [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u182	Madam President! In this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the general housing allowance law and, in addition, the proposal would include the maximum housing expenditure instead of the rental index in the cost-of-living index. Surely each of us has in mind the idea of what is good and affordable housing. It is also a subject on which the House is repeatedly talking. In the alternative budget, the Finns have one presentation, which is as follows: the model of housing billing. So the Finns of Peru have a pattern of the way in which housing should be run, and that would also be possible. In our view, this proposal and the changes to be made do not reflect the idea of good and affordable housing, especially since housing allowance has already been cut in the last two years. And yet, when we consider what the rent levels are and what the rents are like year after year, we do not consider this proposal to be good and this will then be rejected on time. In the opinion of the Finns Party, good, affordable, affordable housing belongs to everyone. In particular, the capital region, which continues to wrestle repeatedly and constantly in the absence of affordable housing, should be put in place. Young students, low-income housing. And it is also very important to remember that the cost of living should not prevent you from working or from moving after work. After all, the government also encourages people to go after a job rather than just move, but the work is being moved from small localities to expensive areas in the capital region, often without a home.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u183	Mr President! It is, of course, quite welcome that this standard for part-time residence was removed from this proposal, that is to say that this proposal was improved, but Mrs Maijala is obliged to comment to the extent that the badness of this proposal, as regards this standard for part-time residence, was known before the committee procedure, and should also have been known to both the Minister and the Members of Parliament, because this proposal received a very wide range of criticism already during the consultation, that is to say, it should not have been brought to Parliament in this form at all. It is also a bit grotesque that the representative of the centre said that the government cares about students, when it is the students who are among the groups from whom this government has cut the most, that is to say the biggest cuts in individual benefits during this period were directed at the study grant, i.e. the livelihood of already low-income Finns. But, Mr President, as has been pointed out here, unfortunately, these other weakenings of housing allowance are still present in this proposal. And when, among other things, the Prime Minister spoke during the summer that the path of surgery has now been completed, this is indeed one of the performances that continues to cut off all the most low-income Finns. This freezing of maximum housing expenditure immediately weakens the level of housing allowance, and in the long term this transfer to the cost index will also mean that the level of housing support will fall behind the overall rental development. Apparently, this government’s desire to weaken housing support is based on ignorance of how housing support works. Once again, I would like to quote Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, who, during Question Time, said that if we make up practically 100% of the rent, it will inevitably lead to an increase in rents, which can be seen from curves and statistics. This is therefore a completely incorrect argument. According to Kela, housing allowance covered on average 49 per cent of actual housing costs in 2015
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u184	Mr President! It is true that housing support expenditure has increased, and it is true that housing costs have increased. I'm sure something needs to be done, but it's stupid to just do something about the amount, not find out what those performances have an impact on. That is why it is absolutely necessary to look at this kind of housing support system as a whole, and only then do we need to make those changes and think about how we will ensure that the housing costs do not rise to such a high level, that they do not survive, that there is enough support for living there and that on the other hand, because of the high housing costs, people will be forced to move to income support, because that is something we all know that income support should be last and temporary, and if housing costs have to be applied for there, it will not be and will not bring the savings that this performance was about to collect. Of course, we know that there must be more supply of housing, especially small dwellings, which are in great need, and it is worth investing in these means, not that we weaken the position of those who are already on low incomes by disproportionate cuts in their housing allowance. At this stage, we must thank the committee, and in particular its presidency, for the good and thorough work that has been done on this bill, so that, as Mr Modig said, it has now been removed from it the housing allowance for the three-room car which would have been completely absurd and simply increased costs. But, indeed, in this proposal as it stands, there is no point, and it is not only worth doing something, but when things are done, they should be based on researched information and studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u185	Mr President! In addition to what I have just said as chairman of the committee, I would also like to stress that the housing aid scheme should be considered as a whole. After all, the Audit Committee recently commissioned a report on the housing policy package, involving experts from several committees, including members of the Environment Committee, recently. It made it very clear that in all countries comparable with Finland, housing support is both demand support, i.e. housing support, and supply support. In Finland, this supply support has fallen very strongly and its amount is very low at the moment compared to demand support. It would also be very important to examine whether this housing aid scheme as a whole is appropriate at the moment, and this also involves the government's argument for this index freeze, which I object to in itself, to break the cycle that housing aid increases rents and housing prices and thus increases the need for aid again. It may well be that such a cut on the poorest people is more precise than this legitimate attempt by the government itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u186	Mr President! It is a very important debate about what is going on here. Government representatives say that when housing support expenditure increases, something must be done. But first, think about what is being done, so that what is being done is directed at the things that are being corrected. Now that something has to be done, this bill is an example of the fact that it is going rather badly. Instead, just as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said and the government itself has stated in its own explanatory statement, a comprehensive reform is needed. In the background, it is worth remembering that the previous government carried out a housing allowance reform, and now it is, as it were, a puzzle-like crumbling process without any follow-up or assessment of it being made. The chairman of the committee raised here the fact that what would be the real issues that would affect this, that is, how to achieve affordable housing through supply subsidies. It is true that, at a time when supply subsidies — i.e. the way in which these affordable housing are built — have fallen, demand subsidies, or housing subsidies, have risen. Now we should really think about how to get those affordable apartments. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection unanimously stated a few years ago that this long model of interest subsidies should be developed. Now the government has put forward a proposal, but experts say that it takes the ditch to alliikko. It does not improve the possibility of building these affordable dwellings, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u187	Madam President! It is now being said here that when housing allowance expenditure has increased, something has to be done. But what joy is it to save on housing support expenditure if it then goes into income support expenditure? Income support is therefore a very important last-minute form of support to exist. It is meant to be temporary in situations where a person is really in financial trouble. It is not intended as permanent support, in particular to cover the cost of living. But now, with this presentation, you are transferring a large proportion of people to income support in such a way that it will be able to make sure that it is able to manage its own rent in a permanent way. Income support is also a very passive form of support. It has a role to play when it comes to the development of social exclusion, and it should be avoided until the end that anyone should be given income support, especially on a permanent basis. The only way to get housing support expenditure down sustainably is to ensure the adequacy of affordable housing and homes. This means a sufficient amount of housing production, it means a strong land and land policy of municipalities in what is being built up, but we also have to pay attention to quality rather than quantity. It is necessary to ensure that affordable rental housing is created. And here we have many opportunities that we do not use enough. For example, we have a model of group building that at best can bring new types of housing below market prices and thus affect price development. And what Mrs Myller has rightly referred to is that 40 years of interest support must be developed in such a way that it becomes an attractive option. The government's proposal for ten years of interest subsidy proved to be a dummies at birth, and we said yes to the committee back then. It would therefore require an effective, attractive interest rate subsidy. And thirdly, we cannot think that municipal utility companies alone are able to handle the need for affordable production. We need to create routes and means for us to bring new genuinely public-interest housing producers to the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u188	Madam President! In this regard, Mr Juvonen well explained the model of the housing bill for Finns, which we have in our alternative budget. You wonder when you read in the papers where we could get these low-cost rental housing, when there are no such housing available even in the capital region, and you can constantly read in the papers how elderly people talk about having to switch to smaller apartments. When someone was talking about something concrete, in the alternative budget for Finns, we have more than one measure for which we also have financial investments. That is where Mr Juvonen brought up some, but I would remind you that we also have money to eliminate homelessness. After all, we have about 7,000 homeless people in Finland — of course, a little depends on how to calculate — and that is also a problem. They cannot enjoy even the slightest housing allowance when they do not even have the apartment to be in. We have an additional EUR 10 million in investment there, and we have been thinking, for example, that we could do it through third sector organisations — we now have empty reception centres — so that people could at least get warm. Then we have the introduction of a moving allowance for the trap of two homes. If you want to go to another place of employment, you would receive support for living for a probationary period, because everyone understands that the trap of two homes is really, really significant and bad. In addition, we have to cancel the tax increase on heating fuel, which will be even more later, and then lower electricity transmission prices, because housing includes not only rent but also — or, if you have an owner-occupied dwelling, not only the consideration for the company, but also electricity and all the heating costs and that is the whole. A person should be left with a little more than just paying for walls. It is a whole, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u189	Madam President! This government proposal rightly addresses the hottest issue of day-to-day policy, the rise in costs in this country and, in particular, the rise in housing costs. Housing costs are rising — quite rightly so in themselves — and then, with the rise in housing costs, housing subsidies are also rising, and that increase in housing subsidies is being addressed here. It is precisely a timely response to this great flaw that is currently taking place in Finland. Housing expenditure is proposed to be linked to the cost-of-living index instead of the rental index, which is quite right, because the rental index seems to have a habit of running away all the time, and that is how a publishing machine will be created, which even the state will never be able to pay again. And it should also be borne in mind in the opposition that we already have EUR 107 billion in debt, and we will have to add another EUR 3 billion next year, that we will be able to pay our costs — that we should not be splattering the suspenders here because we can afford this. Originally, housing allowance was created in this country to enable deprived people to have access to high-quality housing in this country. The principle is good, and the principle must be adhered to, but it was hard to hear and hear during the opposition speeches I have just heard, that the left is here to support the profits of the rich in investment business. I think I can hear everything else in this Chamber, but not that the Swedish multi-billionaire Erik Selin, who, as I recall, owns some 4,000 apartments in the capital region, is being supported here. So he gets to raise the housing allowance for tens of millions a year. [SilviaModigin intermediate call] Mr President! Then there are a few further comments. Housing allowance has increased by nearly 50 per cent in the two-year period 2014-2016. If we continue to do so, we have a situation in our hands that the state economy is going down the terrible road again that happened during your previous government, and that is something that we cannot afford once and for all. With this cost machine, which has been created, Finnish competitiveness will certainly be destroyed in five years. The best thing about this country's policy would be that we could decentralise this system as much as possible: the cost level would fall. Work would be available everywhere in Finland. We have plenty of housing in Finland. There's no shortage of apartments. But now, knowingly enough, even the opposition wants to stand up to these great capitalists, we have to build these little honeycombs, which are called apartments around here. What gives you the right, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to think that a family can live in a small studio apartment so small that every time you walk, you break your feet on a chair leg or bedfoot? A congressman can live in that tiny 19-square studio apartment. It's not a problem when you go to work at ten o'clock in the morning and you go to work at six o'clock in the morning. You can sleep in a broom closet for eight hours. But when there should be a normal life there, what the representative's working life itself is not — if there is a family of children or even a young couple — in such a doghouse as it is, then the left-wing union and the Greens will attack fox farmers and mink farmers and raccoons at a wild pace when you take initiatives to get more spacious housing for them too, but people will then be forced into such a small booth, which will still cost between EUR 700 and EUR 800 rent. Where is your logic, good opposition? [ Hustles from the left] I would hope, ladies and gentlemen, that one day we will recognise, as Mr Meri quite rightly analysed in his speech what it has been like to live in a booth. And this is what you are supporting! Yes, we must do something about this mechanism so that this cycle can be cut off. This is kind of the same as the old boy's alcohol cycle, that if you can't cut off that cycle, you'll never get out of it, and we're about to break that cycle. It will not be done on this paper either, ladies and gentlemen, but this is a small step in the right direction. For example, in this city when you look at those, you have at best made housing companies that build a large apartment building that is bought directly by the grynders, trades with one another, and when the price has been made hugely high, guess who pays the bill — the Finnish Parliament pays the big part. Every apartment is put on the rental market. Students, pensioners, low-income people are being charged terrible rent, and the government is paying. Is this a system that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are supporting? Last time I thought this was something I should hear from the demersals, the Left Alliance and the Greens, but it seems I had to hear it too. It's New Year's and Christmas time to recover from this shock. I'm sure I'll get over it — I've seen a lot more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u190	I am not opening up the debate here when we were not very specific about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u191	Mr President! While listening to the speeches made by some representatives in the centre, one wonders what the objective is, on the one hand, when it is said that people, especially families with children, should not be forced to live in overcrowded dwellings, on the other hand, support for the weakening of housing support, which in practice means that people will have to live in a narrower environment than others. On the one hand, it is said that we have to break the cycle that housing allowance increases rents and, on the other hand, increases housing allowance and other social security costs, and on the other hand it is said that people should in one way or another prevent them from living in cities, force them to move to the country. For example, these are not entirely logical objectives. Mr President! I wanted to say something about this support for housing provision. I have already said that the study and expert consultation commissioned by the Audit Committee found that this form of support in Finland, the money spent on it, has really fallen down. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has already stated, as Mrs Myller has pointed out, that the so-called 40-year model of interest subsidies must be reformed. At the moment, it is mainly used by cities. It is no longer really a real support. A great many experts, including ministries, heard by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have stressed that adequate provision of affordable housing is the best way to keep housing costs under control, but it is precisely this aspect of supply support that has so far been almost completely neglected by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u192	Mr President! The main goal of the government is to make Finland rise. Finland has been brought up during this parliamentary term, hear me, on the rise. The number of jobs has increased. The number of unemployed has decreased. In other words, there are fewer and fewer people in Finland who will need housing allowance in the future. Indeed, it is now the intention that there should be fewer people in need of housing support, because the main thing for all people is to get a job, a job. It is the most important thing in every respect that a person can earn his own income, and only if we are unable to provide them with jobs, activities, then we must also care about our loved ones and help them so much that, if necessary, they are given housing allowance and also income support. But they must always be the last option. The first thing is that we can get people to work. This rise has been made during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u193	Madam President! Congressman Hoskonen, you have me confused. You asked me if you had misunderstood. Yes, not only the heart of the Left's cause, but also the principles of Helsinki's housing policy, which are therefore signed across party boundaries. The centre is also involved in this. You complained that, for so many rents, housing allowance was leaking to investors. I hear you have a lot of friends who only live on these rental incomes. Well, the kiky agreement tailored by this government cut the income of a very large number of low-income, low-paid people so that they are forced to rely on housing support afterwards. There was no such thing before, but your government's decisions and then it had to. If your rich friends are doing so well that they can live on rental income from housing, why did you consider it necessary to lower taxes for the good and the rich? These things are confusing and contradictory. But when we talk about solutions, the only sustainable way to change the increase in housing allowance expenditure is to have enough affordable homes and jobs to pay enough to live in it. In Helsinki, we have different ways of ensuring that all types of housing production are generated, both supported rental housing and non-subsidised owner-occupied housing. The problem is that both your party, Mr Hoskonen, and the other right-wing parties in Helsinki, believe that the market will manage, we do not have to regulate in any way. This is where we are now, when the market is running. After all, the Finnish housing market is not very much regulated on a European scale. But the point I want to make is that I wonder whether the Ara aid decisions are too strict at the moment. The housing market has become overheated and, as a result, the price of works has risen and it is very difficult to reach the square prices required for Ara production. Maybe it could, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u194	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Hokkonen was confused by his own rhetoric. There were arguments for and against and in between. However, in this case, you would be paying out this EUR 107 billion debt now to these lowest-income recipients, that is to say, housing allowance recipients, and through the fact that the housing allowance would not be sufficient after these changes, then with income support. I understand that you are sincerely concerned about people’s opportunities to live in affordable housing, in affordable, family-friendly housing all over Finland. Especially in growth centres and here in the capital region there is a shortage of affordable rental housing. Now I would like you, as a representative of the government party, to really focus on the fact that this 40-year model of interest subsidies would be built in such a way that it would actually build affordable housing so that the starting price is such that families can live even in larger dwellings. This policy, when these standards are being tightened up all the time, forces families to live in small dwellings because their income is not enough for larger homes. Here in the capital region, even middle-income families are in trouble because of housing. The usual employee does not have the opportunity to choose from many places, but to take what he can get. It is precisely this support for affordable housing that is currently very poorly managed, but I hope you will get it right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u195	Mr President! I too was very confused about Mr Hoskonen's speech, because I did not really understand anything about it. Could Mr Hoskonen, for example, open up the way in which this government bill will increase the number of large flats at affordable prices, because it was completely unclear to me. Mrs Majala's speech was equally confusing. He spoke well about the importance of reducing the number of people who need housing allowance. It remains unclear how this proposal will serve the objective, when the main consequence of this proposal is that it will increase the number of recipients of income support, which is generally considered to be the worst incentive trap in the Finnish social security system. Mrs Hoskonen, on the other hand, seemed to be critical of the whole Finnish housing market model, as I understood her speech. After all, we have a large number of privately owned apartments, which are therefore offered for rent, but what Mrs Hoskonen wants to do about this whole Finnish housing market structure remains unclear. Does he want to move completely to a system where only publicly produced affordable rental housing is available? Does he want to introduce rent regulation? Does he want to increase taxation on high income homeowners or in some other way restrict their activities? Mr Hoskonen's position on this matter was completely unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u196	Madam President! Once, the opposition was left unclear, so I shed some light. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about giving all this money from the state budget to these rich people, but originally, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the purpose of housing support was to support the housing of deprived people and to raise the quality of living, and to hold fast to that original task. Those who have visited the army know that it is always important to remember that starting point: keep the task clear in mind. This is what we were taught. Over the last two years, EUR 400 million has gone to support the housing of deprived people. So the direction has been the right one, the target has been the right one. But then the question arises as to whether we like to make giant concentrations, because the increase in costs will then eat up all the benefits of what we try to save state money to make competitiveness better, because not this competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, has been obtained from anything tomorrow as a gift and not as a gift to heaven, but it will keep us all doing ourselves so that our products go to the market. If public expenditure increases — as it did in your reign for four years, the budgetary position did not deteriorate as much as EUR 38 billion — do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that we can live for another four-year period with an increase in the cost of EUR 38 billion so that the budgetary position is weakened by the sum just mentioned? If anyone is going to go down that road, I wish them good luck and success, but I am afraid the wall will meet in the first two months. Congressman Andersson is there, making his head flush and suspiciously smiling, but apparently you have someone new in mathematics that I don't understand. But during your reign... — you have a habit of either being in the government or running away, both may even be possible. But the purpose of housing aid is to give people the opportunity to live cheaply — that is right — but why do we create systems that then lead to huge cost increases, a deterioration in public finances and finally to the unfortunate housing of those people? Living in a small one-room apartment, I can say from experience, is no pleasure, but when this is a necessity and that is it. Then these big investors who win, what do these gentlemen and ladies do? They're building nice palaces. They don't build studios for themselves. They build 500 square meters of detached house in Finland, magnificent villas in the Cayman Islands.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u199	However, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this proposal is now precisely about general housing support, and that is why I am not opening up the debate on this. Anyone who wishes to speak on this matter will ask for one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u200	Madam President! In his recent lengthy speeches, Mr Hoskonen did not point at all to the fact that, in fact, the hearings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have revealed quite recent studies that the increase in housing allowance does not seem to have an impact on the level of rents. It would have been all right to take that into account in this debate as well. Housing allowance is still intended for the most low-income people, to support their chances of living somewhere, and the cuts in housing allowance actually increase the number of people who have to rely on last-time income support. This, in turn, increases incentive problems, as dependency on income support reduces the chances of matching short-term employment. With this policy, the government, on the other hand, is wary of the objectives of its employment policy, because the employment rate will not rise if people are put in a position where it is difficult to accept the job. Increasing poverty through cuts in housing aid is also a short-sighted policy. After unemployment, the cost of housing is the main cause of poverty, especially in cities, and in other words, the cuts in housing allowance increase urban poverty, which has a wide range of social consequences, which are also costly. Cutting housing allowance does not help housing shortages. It is only the construction of affordable housing that will help, and it is housing policy and metropolis policy that is lacking in this government. The shortage of housing is not only a cause of poverty, it is also a stone in the shoes of economic policy when employers in the capital region find it increasingly difficult to recruit because of the high cost of living. The government is not ashamed to cut the housing allowance at the same time
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u201	Mr President! As Mr Hoskonen said: when the criteria for housing allowance were changed during the previous parliamentary term, it had increased by as much as 400 million in two years. What we are talking about here is the marginal savings, which are at stake here. No one has thanked those on low incomes for receiving 400 million more housing allowance. However, it is a big money, and now housing allowance is beginning to amount to EUR 3 billion in Finland. Of course it is important in itself, but there are also phenomena such as the fact that a young man may move here to live in an investor's 20-square apartment, be excluded or be excluded and live here with housing allowance. Who ultimately benefits from this? This investor, who has built this place, these little roommates here, and makes use of the entire housing allowance. After all, the majority of housing aid is now actually coming into large housing centres where there is too little housing construction, which may also be due to this general concentration. I think that if we ignore the fact that the housing allowance has increased by 400 million in two years, then we will not look at this whole thing at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u202	Mr President! As Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto well pointed out here, the housing allowance is still targeted at Finnish low incomes, who also desperately need housing support so that they can cover at least part of their housing costs. And as has already been pointed out at this earlier stage of the debate, the average housing allowance covers only about half of the actual housing expenditure. In other words, it is not a subsidy that covers housing expenditure entirely. Mr Hoskonen's speech was still completely unclear as to what Mr Hoskonen really wants to say about this government bill, what he wants to change in it, or in what way the reduction in housing allowance for low-income Finns would increase the number of large-sized family homes somewhere in Finland. The only observation I could get from Mr Hoskonen was that he somehow wants to address these large concentrations in terms of housing policy. I interpret this in such a way that Mr Hoskonen wants to intervene in Helsinki in some way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u204	Mr President! The overall reform of housing support, which has only been done a few years ago, has cost our society a great deal of money. I'm not going to comment on it any further, I'm just waiting for it to be quickly made more comprehensive, that's why it led to such a huge increase in costs. Now that this proposal, which is on the table today, is just a small piece, but it has now been clearly examined and clarified that this will curb this whole and will not bring about much bad things either. There are difficult consequences, but this can at least curb this increase in support for housing expenditure and the increase in rents in general. Then there's the other thing: Several speakers have discussed whether the rise in housing allowance and rents are linked. This issue was not raised in committee meetings as a matter of its own, and this issue was not discussed and, if we start talking about it, it is certainly its own place and its own broader report. It brought up the views of a few people, but at least I did not swallow them in that way. But when that was not the point, then there is no need to work on it. There was also talk of a competitiveness pact: Yes, the competitiveness pact has been concluded as a joint entity between the various parties and has created jobs. In fact, the only way to reduce housing support expenditure is to get people work, work, income. That is the only real way forward to improve this issue. Then the second thing is affordable housing. That is what we also need to get done in the capital region, and that is where we still have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u205	Mr President! I am quite right to be concerned here, including Mr Ala-Nissila in his speech, and Mrs Hoskonen, that housing support expenditure is growing steadily, will soon amount to nearly EUR 2 billion. In some ways, we should take it as a matter of common concern that this direction can be reversed. It is terribly difficult for us in Parliament to influence how affordable housing can be found in the capital region, for example, if the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area do not themselves make a radical change. It has been a policy that has been going on for decades, that this is where the grynders are doing well and those who own real estate. From my own experience, I can say that the housing allowance will go down at the price of the rent, that it will always be liquidated in the price of the rent, how much it is possible to receive housing allowance. It's obvious. There's a connection. Looking at the growth centres in Finland, I think it would be worth looking at what has been done by Oulu in zoning policy. Why is it that there are significantly lower house prices, even though it has also grown strongly than in the capital region, for example? They've made the wrong choices about me. They say there's no land here to build. That is not true. In fact, I remember well when the Governor of the Bank of Finland told me that it was perhaps one of the most difficult things for him to justify when you landed with the heads of the European central banks in Helsinki, it looks like a plane landing in the middle of the forest, and then he said that there are apartments so expensive when there is no land to build here. They wondered how this could be true when a plane was landing in the middle of the forest. In other words, this is a policy of planning and land use which has still not been put in order here, but which favours the grynders and construction companies and increases the price of the land from the City of Helsinki itself and from these neighbouring municipalities, so that the price per square metre of the dwellings will rise to the new 4000 to 5000,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u206	Madam President! We must now repeat this question, which Mr Andersson, for example, has raised on several occasions and Mr Modig. If the problem is with these housing investors, what are you doing about this phenomenon? The cost of living cannot be solved by cutting the housing allowance for the poorest. Jobs are in cities and people are moving in after them. Nor will the problems of sparsely populated areas be solved by deploring urban conditions, i.e. increasing urban poverty. You yourself will cut unemployment benefit if the unemployed do not move after a job to the city. You will cut the housing allowance where work is most likely to be available, i.e. from cities, and the cuts in housing support will hit the capital region hardest. Did you know that in relation to the least housing allowance, the low-income person living alone in the city receives housing allowance and the most generous of all is for those living in sparsely populated areas in large dwellings?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u209	Mr President! I do not understand the fact that housing allowance is being cut even though it is growing every year by 200 million. Every year it grows by 200 million. More than half a billion, of course, will be spending on housing allowance during this term of government, even if this proposal is accepted. So how do you cut the housing allowance? This isn't gonna fit in the head of a former accountant. Then there's this investor business. In this respect, some of these factors in rental housing are non-profit-making entities that pay no taxes at all. These rental incomes are tax-exempt income for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u212	Madam President! The only sustainable way to calculate housing allowance expenditure is to have enough affordable housing and work for people to live on. It is the only sustainable way we can make it lower than expenditure — not by creating a group of people who have to rely on income support to cope with their housing costs. I do not understand what it is to be able to keep up with fools to save on housing subsidies by cutting them so that 40% of these people are transferred to income support. It's like the story of the fools continuing to cover and thinking it'll grow longer when you take one end and put it in the other. Clearly, few of the representatives of the government parties have read this government’s proposal. Read the show. All the criticisms that the opposition is making here are from the government's own motion. The proposal states that savings in housing allowance will end up 40% in income support expenditure. The motion makes it quite plain that this is a difficult decision, because it affects the poorest of the poorest. As far as the public interest and the few people who have started in the public interest are concerned, I fully share that concern. We therefore need genuine operators of general interest. I myself know from my own experience that housing can also be produced in a non-profit-making way. For example, Orange is one organization in Helsinki, which will soon have been able to produce 200 apartments for young people. They are cheaper than rental housing in the City of Helsinki. And all of this as non-profit-making, genuinely of general interest, and then as a genuinely public interest society, receiving the support of what is in the public interest. This is one way: because these housing markets are completely distorted, we must create healthy competition. We need to bring new, genuinely public-interest players into the sector, who bring about a variety that challenges its existing market price.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u213	Mr President! This debate is now beginning to take a turn, but even at the risk of Mr Ala-Nissilä raising the issue of the increase in housing allowance expenditure: it is a fact in itself, but the difference is whether the weakening of the standard of housing allowance is the way in which this issue is best corrected. The only undisputed effect of the government’s proposal is that 40%, or almost half of the savings, will be paid to income support, and that this cut will be directed at the most low-income people. The issue is how this affects the housing market. But I am now reiterating the fact that the model of support that we have had in the past, the so-called 40-year interest rate subsidy, the Ara model, has become obsolete. In practice, only cities use that model. For example, the interest rate subsidy which is in the name of this model does not in practice exist at current market rates, i.e. the interest rate subsidy is virtually zero in the current market situation. I think it is very important to develop a form of support for housing construction in this time period, which would make it more efficient to mobilise affordable housing where they are most in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u214	Mr President! If you think about this housing problem and housing allowance, it seems to me that if a middle-income Finn cannot pay for his living in Helsinki on his own salary, that he needs housing allowance for it, then someone in this equation is seriously wrong. This has led to an increase in this expenditure. The equation is not solved by simply increasing housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u219	Madam President! The representatives of the city centre Ala-Nissilä and Hoskonen raised this tax exemption and its impact if the association or other operator receives these rental income as tax-free, and it also affects housing allowance and housing costs. In fact, I am delighted about this and will now throw the ball to the Prime Minister's Party: I myself asked myself a written question about this in September 2016 when, in the economic messages, the duty-free dividend income of trade unions and other associations came back to the debate when they owned about 60 per cent of the VVO. There will be a great deal of feedback from the citizens on this, and now, of course, I hope that you will catch up. You now have the ball and the opportunity to remove this tax exemption and put some roof on it at least. After all, in the alternative budget, we Finns have proposed capital income from large foundations and associations for tax purposes in such a way that we do not, of course, want to interfere with small associations and their activities and we have a limit of EUR 100,000, and then we have a proposed tax rate for this separately. You could, for example, take a catch or make one of your own from our bill. There has been quite a lot of talk about this for years now, and if I do not misremember, there have been these voices in the assembly at times that this seems unfair. If the representatives of the centre and the very important people, such as Mr Ala-Nissilä, who is the chairman of the tax section, the vice-chairman of the audit committee and an alternate member of the state budget, are interested in this, then it could probably be a place of influence now. — Now I see that Mr Ala-Nissilä has left here, but the ball to the center.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u220	Mr President! Mr Salmon has just made an excellent speech in which he analyses the impact of municipal policy on housing policy. That's an excellent speech. In other words, we can influence the development of housing policy in the region through municipal policy. In no way am I opposed to Helsinki in this regard. Since I was a little boy, I have admired Helsinki as the beautiful capital of our country and now that I have seen the world a little elsewhere, I can say that Helsinki is the absolute number one of the world's capitals, the absolute number one. The others will be far away after that. In other words, I want things to go well in Helsinki, but I also want things to go well in the whole country and not to be funded by international investors. I would like this housing policy to be such that we do not feed on our own systems to increase the transfer of money from Finland to another country, because it is to the detriment of Finland. Our competitiveness is affected, and then it becomes unemployed, and public expenditure is increased both by the state and by the municipalities. So cutting off this cost machine is the big deal, and this government proposal, which is now on the table, is a very small step to turn the housing index into a cost-of-living index. This is a millimetre shift in the right direction, only one millimetre, very little, but significant and right. And as Olavi Ala-Nissila, a long-standing representative and also as a top accountant, said that as the cost of housing increases by 200 million this year in the state budget, it is not a cut, but it is a definite, huge increase. We have to remember that we're not going to operate now, now we're going to add. So if we do this every year by adding to this job, we will one day come up with the situation like the old boy, that the money ran out of purses and went to the purse, and that's probably not the point. That's where competitiveness comes in. We cannot deny that. When costs increase, it affects the price of products, through income policy wages, all other costs. That means that our external trade is going to fade, and then we are once again in the same situation as the competitiveness pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u221	Mr President! Once again, as regards the housing costs of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, what is not working now for Mrs Lohe: Firstly, what does not work is the housing market, which is clearly the problem in the capital region because there are not enough affordable housing available. Another problem in the capital region is the underpaid wages, especially if you look at the situation in the services sector, and this government-driven competitiveness pact only worsened. In other words, in practice in the capital region, we can already talk about transferring the responsibility for paying wages to the public sector, the state, because it is known that these low-paid workers will then have to apply for housing allowance in order to patch this up. The solution to this problem, as has been pointed out on many occasions, is not in itself housing aid, but rather an increase in the number of affordable housing, supply support and fair labour market and wage policies. As far as these operators in the public interest are concerned, at least a few representatives may have gone a little crazy in this debate. Unfortunately, these operators such as VVO are no longer engaged in the production of housing of general interest, and if you ask the Left Alliance whether they should do so, the answer is yes, absolutely, and that is also the line that we within the trade union movement have taken. In other words, we are extremely disappointed that operators such as VVO have abandoned this activity because the need for affordable housing is as great as it is. In practice, therefore, these companies are currently operating in the same way as other private housing investors, and it remains unclear what government parties want to do about them. If, then, we are talking about the tax exemption for dividends from operators of general interest, I personally agree that the government should examine the effects of taxing these dividends.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u222	Madam President! I fully agree with the representatives of the city centre that Helsinki must play its part in solving the housing shortage, and the Greens have been active in it. And I must say that Helsinki is currently building more new apartments than I know ever before, so it is doing its best. But it is also not a question of whether the housing shortage can be solved either by Helsinki or by the state alone. For example, last season there was good cooperation between Helsinki and other big cities and the state. I am referring, for example, to the state's support for major public transport projects, provided that cities, on the other hand, built new housing along these lines. In other words, such a urban policy, such a metropolis policy and an active role in solving housing shortages, I need the government, but this is where you have been passive. What you have done is that you have cut off the lowest income, preventing these low income people from moving in after work. It will not solve the problems that we have in this country, and I would ask you to look at this whole and try to make a constructive, sustainable, far-reaching policy and not cut off the poor, so that you simply transfer the housing costs to the City of Helsinki and other municipalities through income support. It's not gonna save a penny of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u223	Mr President! Indeed, it would be good to learn from the good practice that has been done in Finland in various parts of Finland. Oulu is a good example of a long-term planning policy. There should be at least five years of construction needs, ready-made formulas and cities primarily planning for their own land. This will provide a long-term planning policy which is the basis for making housing as if it were a leap in society. It has already been stated that in the capital region, MAL agreements between cities and the state have been concluded. They are also a good example of how long-term areas can be developed that are suitable for planning, and this should be strongly developed now. We are already seeing how, for example, a single city is built around the Ring Road, and it will then be well constructed. But here we come to how to make affordable housing possible, and here you, the representatives of the government parties, are now playing a key role in developing this long model of interest subsidies, which is no longer an interest subsidy model, but which will make the housing market more stable by providing people with an alternative to affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u224	Mr President! I think that Mr Myller's speech had a lot to do with it. Here Mr Andersson said earlier that there are, in a way, two ways: more affordable housing and, secondly, wages are too low, i.e. they should be raised. I fully agree with the first of these, but if we are going to raise wages, it will immediately run into the price of products and services and cause the competitiveness problem which Mrs Hokkonen has spoken very well about here, but it will also cause us to have no one here to afford to buy these services. We already have the problem that in the service sector wages are quite low, but still our services are quite expensive. And when we look at the European comparison, which I have just seen, jobs in the low-wage sector have increased everywhere but Luxembourg and Finland. In Finland, they had not grown, because there is not, in a way, a labour market for it and there is not enough money to do with it, and it causes unemployment, because we do not all have a high level of competence that would enable them to find employment in today's jobs, to say, in high-skilled jobs. So we have a problem that should be solved. Representative Vartia is not here at the moment, but she has many times pointed out that this does not improve by raising wages, but rather that part of the salary that is left in hand and that we have to rethink the tax solutions, because we are constantly suing for a change in working life. We will have medium-income jobs in the future, and we will have to do something bigger here. But yes, it must continue to be said, even though Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said here that the state must do — it is clear, it is its own contribution — that the municipalities play a central role. There is also a place to look in the mirror, and if you don’t like the picture when looking in the mirror, the problem is not necessarily in the mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u225	Mr President! Now we are slowly slipping on the subject under discussion, but let me briefly say that I do not agree with both Mr Salmon and Mr Vartia on your labour market policies. After all, there is a major problem in the services sector, such as the lack of hours worked, which then contributes to the low wage level and the level of income of many employees. But the main principle we also have is that you have to get along with your salary. And service workers also have the right to receive reasonable compensation for the work they do — and also for those who can live in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u226	Mr President! This debate on housing allowance is of fundamental importance. Of course, this has been going on for quite some time now. I'm sure the perspective has become clear. Clearly, the government does not want this housing allowance to be kept at an adequate level. However, this small amount of housing allowance is not only a problem, of course, but, yes, people with low and medium incomes should have the opportunity to live on their own incomes — what is left of the salary. It can, of course, be partly influenced, for example, by taxation, and income tax has been reduced. Of course, these reductions, at least according to these new government proposals, are not sufficiently focused on low and medium incomes. So there is work to be done in this area. Then this situation in the City of Helsinki. Helsinki is the largest growth centre in Finland, and here the housing shortage is real, and it is the worst of all urban areas in Finland. Of course, the housing shortage in Helsinki has also worsened with the city’s own actions. The problems of planning were just mentioned here, and they are of course serious, but the problem is also exacerbated by the fact that a large proportion of immigrants are going to Helsinki and the capital region. I do not believe that the decision of the City Council of Helsinki last Wednesday to provide wider services to undocumented people, even housing services, would improve the situation at all, rather than weaken it further. The situation will also deteriorate if a bill signed by more than 100 MPs to dismantle the labour market is broken through here in Parliament. In practice, this means that a large number of cheap labour will enter the Finnish market from outside the EU and the EEA region, and, of course, the competition for housing will increase. These too should definitely be borne in mind when discussing this housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u227	Now, ladies and gentlemen, closer to what is actually being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u228	Mr President! Why have we increasingly needed housing allowance: Although this has gone a little further, I would like to say briefly that I agree with Mr Andersson that the services sector wants to have such low wages that they do not get along. But perhaps that medicine is different for us, so I would not go to that increase in gross wages, but should pay more attention to that part in hand and take the basic income as a tool in the future so that it might live — in fact, just as Mr Savio here said that even the low- and medium-income person would be able to take care of its own living to an increasing extent and that housing allowance would be intended for temporary more students and then for those who live on basic security, but those who work would be able to bear the cost of their own living. In other words, we may have gone too far over the last few decades to see that the social partners have also paid attention to this gross wage, while the key is that part that remains in hand. This is where we in Finland may need a bigger reform in the future, which will involve basic income as a tool and thus ensure that everyone is involved in working life, will also be able to get along with their work and housing costs so that this housing allowance will not be the preferred form of support for people with low incomes and middle incomes, in a way, they will receive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u229	Mr President! Is the Ay movement not an operator of general interest and should be on the behalf of the poor and so on? But I read the Evening Messages news from last year: Finland's largest private landlord raised his rent last year and made EUR 370.9 million in turnover before taxes of EUR 224.7 million. And now that housing allowance raises rents, then the poor person of course will raise and transfer it to this kind of ay-movement to finance the activities. And how does the Ay movement do: to raise the wages of their lords, even now the last one was raised on the side of Aalto's salary. So where do you think that money goes? And when it comes to public-interest activities, that they act without profit, it seems that comrade populism is such that the money is taken out of the guy's pocket and transferred into the Lord's pocket. The action is like this in practice, but the speeches are pretty that you get votes. But action is far from what it would be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u232	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, the measures will be decided at the sole reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u233	Honorable Speaker! In other words, this is a purely fiscal proposal with a revenue of 45 million. In the case of district heating, the yield is 15 million and in the case of oil heating 10 million. Then, in view of the fact that we have this model of housing billing, which has often been mentioned in the previous case, and which also includes the model of the price of electricity, I will simply say that there are about 200,000 oil-heated detached houses in Finland, and now, when we look at how housing costs have risen and the price of oil has risen constantly, according to the information we have received from the committee on the income of a low-income pensioner who lives alone, even less than half of the cost of heating. In this respect, I propose that these proposals be rejected in accordance with the objections. Then, when it comes to the cost of housing and this model of ours, I will only say here, when the land policy of the City of Oulu was also discussed quite extensively on the previous issue and how the price level of living there is lower, because the price of land is cheaper, that In fact, the guidelines of Oulu land policy are only clarifications of ownership policy and concern the acquisition of land, the transfer of land and then these land use agreements. In fact, they are just common agreements between the decision-makers and the administration, and they are found in that amazing world on the Internet. This agreement has been concluded in 2014, and it has certainly contributed to the fact that even though the city is growing rapidly, the cost of living in Oulu is affordable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u234	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. The rejection proposal made by Vähämäki, and I say that the alternative budget for Finns is indeed this housing billing programme, which our group chairman, Leena Meri, went through very quickly in connection with the previous issue. It is readable from there and does not include such a measure to tighten housing costs; on the contrary, we have a large package, and if the government wants to implement it, we are very grateful for it and, above all, the people of Finland are grateful for it, so let me give you a hint that you look, ministers, and get to work on these matters. Mr President! This tightening of energy taxation also affects agriculture, alongside private consumers, and agriculture is under very heavy pressure today. I would expect the present government to take a new approach to this issue, even in this respect, and it will be possible to do so like a representative. A little hill suggested.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u235	Mr President! This government proposal is inadequate from both an environmental and a fair point of view. To this end, there have been no background studies required by good law, and I therefore make the following statements in accordance with protest 1: "1.The government requires the government to monitor the impact of tax increases on the increase in 2. Parliament requires the government to monitor the impact of tax increases on emissions and, if necessary, to take measures to increase emission reductions. 3. Parliament requires the Government to prepare a comprehensive proposal to ensure the transition to environmentally sustainable heating systems. The study must assess the different options in a comprehensive way, taking into account the different options, namely repair and energy grants and household allowance."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u236	Madam President! This government proposal has been estimated to have some positive effects, since tax increases will improve the position of low carbon fuels and renewable energy sources among others, but these proposed tax increases are inadequate in terms of combating climate change, as the increase does not provide sufficient guidance for the use of renewable energy sources. It should also be noted that the objectives of reducing emissions and saving energy will not be achieved if the energy tax refunds for agriculture and energy intensive industries are implemented as proposed. It is also problematic that this proposal does nothing about peat taxation. This is very harmful, as the relative position of peat improves. Reducing energy support for peat would support the achievement of climate objectives. On these grounds, I would like to make proposals for statements in accordance with the Greens' objection, that is to say, protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u237	Mr President! In the Left Alliance, we welcome the tightening of CO2 taxation. It is clear that, in order to speed up the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, we also need stronger fiscal guidance for all uses of fossil energy to reduce it. It would therefore be desirable for the government to bring reforms of this kind before Parliament in a clearer way rather than individualised reforms. An illustrative lack of overall government policy is that it was decided to speed up the timetable for the reform now under discussion for fiscal reasons, as the progress of the second energy tax change in the government stalled. This kind of procedure makes it difficult to understand the combined effect of several changes. At the practical level, the effects of the present reform will be felt in the separate heating of buildings, in working machinery and in the use of industrial oil. The taxation of heating, power plant and machinery fuels would increase by an average of 7% of the current level. According to the proposal, consumer prices of light fuel oil would rise by around 2 per cent and those of heavy fuel oil by about 3 per cent. For oil-fired detached houses, an average annual increase of approximately EUR 43 per year in heating costs would be referred to. However, it should be pointed out that averages cover important income-sharing and income-related issues. There are about 190,000 oil-heated detached houses in Finland, some of which have very low income households whose livelihoods can clearly be hampered by the reform. In fact, the Left Alliance has proposed energy renovation aid, which would also allow more deprived households to switch to renewable energy and improve the energy efficiency of their homes. In addition, we have proposed a reform of the household allowance so that it would be suitable for energy renovations by housing companies and cooperatives. Our changes to pension and social security systems would significantly improve the livelihoods of pensioners and, for example, the unemployed or students, which would reduce the impact of higher fossil heating. We also find it problematic that the proposal does not propose any changes to the taxation of peat. In practice, the proposal actually creates additional support for the use of peat, although for environmental reasons the use of peat should be reduced quickly. In view of the above, I propose that Parliament approve the statements under objection 3: "1.The Board of Directors requires that the Government should assess the combined effect of the energy tax changes which have been and are planned 2. Parliament requires the Government to submit to Parliament a proposal for household support for renovations to improve the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency in detached houses, housing companies and cooperatives."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u238	Mr President! I would like to support the proposals made by Mr Myller in response to protest 1. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u239	Mr President! The previous paragraph dealt with housing costs and their rise for a very long time, and this bill would unfortunately increase them further. Probably raises when apparently the support of the government parties goes through here in Parliament. But like representatives of Vähämäki and The Kangasniemi has just made a good point in the debate, and this bill for increasing taxes on heating, machinery and power plant fuels is in no way justified. I myself am in favour of rejecting it. Indeed, this tax increase would also increase the price of district heat, and it is quite problematic that, even in the autumn, when the government has repeatedly praised here that it is reducing income tax, on the other hand, it is always taking away from the citizens in the form of a tightening of consumer taxation. And even when these tax evasions affect goods that are largely essential for living, they are the ones that are hardest hit by the very lowest incomes of the citizens — including the government's proposal to raise the thresholds for property taxes. Fortunately, it finally understood the opposition's pressure to withdraw its proposal from this House, and that is what I also recommend in relation to this proposal. Mr President! Today, among other things, the situation of poor families with children has been discussed, and a government proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index is about to be discussed. Such proposals, which I mentioned, and now this motion on the taxation of fuels is something that, once the upturn has begun, would not be seen here in this House in a way that is destabilising the cause and position of the people with the lowest incomes. This planned tax increase will also weaken the operating conditions of the business community. The entire bill aims to generate additional revenue for the State, but when all its effects are taken into account, the overall impact is very negative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u240	Madam President! I support Mr Yanar's protest No 2 and the corresponding statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u241	Madam President! Energy taxation is a fundamental element and a tool for us towards a sustainable energy policy and in our efforts to combat or adapt to climate change. A significant part of the Finnish carbon footprint comes from housing, and climate action must be possible for everyone. That is why these solutions must take into account the impact on different groups of people, their housing, income distribution, and, at the same time, climate action must be possible for everyone to the extent that an individual must be able to make reasonable changes to the climate. Therefore, for example, the development of a household allowance in order to speed up the transition to a more sustainable heating system, such as in detached houses, would be very welcome. That is why, Mr President, I support the proposals made by Mr Andersson in response to protest 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u242	Mr President! After all, the debate on energy taxation is very interesting, and this is also about seeking solutions to climate objectives, how we could reduce the use of coal in this country and how we could invest more in the use of renewable energies, but, of course, this is also about filling the budget, and, as the committee has said, of course, energy taxation should be long-term and sustainable. Quite often it is also made into a budget bill, so I agree with the fact that a few speeches have pointed out that, in the longer term, of course, we need to think about the road map of taxation as a whole and also about the whole of energy taxation. On the subject of peat taxation, I do disagree with what has been said here, even though the experience of the previous regime was quite clear that, when the taxation of peat is tightened, it cuts the support for forest chips that are linked to each other and, in practice, leads to an increase in the use of coal, which is not sustainable in terms of climate policy either. However, it must also be acknowledged that this is difficult for people who still have oil-heated detached houses, for example, in a sparsely populated area, or it is difficult for those who need a lot of heating fuels at work when the CO2 tax component is addressed, but in any case it has been estimated that this increase would be around 2 % for light fuel oil and around 3 % for heavy fuel oil. In those cities where district heat is still polluting and working on coal, there will be a cost to the people, but of course I hope that when the government wants to get rid of coal — and that is the responsibility of the big cities, above all, which have not gone to it — this proposal will also contribute to encouraging renewables there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u243	Mr President! Personally, if we want to contribute to climate change and to enable people to participate in it, positive carrots would achieve better results, and on the other hand, someone may want to do so, but when they have no money. That weekend I was traveling in squares and turbulents, and a few lonely women who were retired just told me that they have made a long career. It had a net pension of about EUR 1300 and a little on top, closer to EUR 1400. I was thinking that the left-wing side suggested this household allowance, and that might be all right, but of course it would require a person to have that base to pay first, which is where he is now paying for it, that's what I'm going to think about. The Social Democrats want the government to monitor the situation. Well, according to the studies, that oil-heating bill is going up and the costs in agriculture are going up, so I don't know what to follow up on. Very much is always said about those low-income people, especially pensioners, and then when those concrete decisions come, we see here that we are monitoring and monitoring. I have often heard from the Social Democrats that this 'follow-up, follow-up' is only a way of moving on from a sad issue. As far as the Greens are concerned, perhaps the greatest attention was paid to the fact that Mr Yanar said that this does not adequately control consumption and that he was not concerned about agriculture either. For Christ's sakes, if a person really has between EUR 1200 and EUR 1,400 a month and is a single widow, then he is not guided enough when he has no money, so now he has little realism. And that is why it is absolutely to be welcomed that if we want to change this, this will not be done now, but will be given the incentives and invested in that prevention of climate change. I'm not sure I understand that we're low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u244	Mr President! The Government proposes an increase of EUR 45 million in taxes on heating, machinery and power plant fuel. As the Finns of Finland say in their alternative budget, the proposed tax increase is neither in line with the overall interests of society nor fair. The tax increase would also increase the price of district heat, as it would mainly target fossil fuel cogeneration plants. The tax would also have a negative impact on industrial competitiveness, although the impact of the tax increase on transport, EUR 3 million for forestry, EUR 4 million for forestry and EUR 2 million for other machinery is relatively small. The direction of change is wrong and the government's proposal, rather than promoting our national competitiveness, undermines our competitiveness. For these reasons, the proposed tax increase must be withdrawn. Then about that climate change, so much so that, among other things, the coal power plant that is in Helsinki has the same emissions and the air that comes out of it is as clean as what the Indians breathe. And probably it will have an effect from there on Indian discharges to this earth greater than on such little powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u245	Mr President! Climate change control is really in a hurry, and I therefore find it very gratifying that the City of Helsinki has decided to close one coal-fired power plant, and the decision that Helsinki will become carbon neutral by 2035 also means, I understand, the closure of another coal-fired power plant in Helsinki. The increase in the CO2 component of the energy tax is justified, but whenever environmental taxes are raised or even discussed, there is also a debate on the social impact. In my view, it is well-founded that tax returns are always used to compensate for the social disadvantages that some groups of people face. But, Mr President, I would particularly like to point out the inconsistency in government policy that, on the one hand, when there are quite large speeches about climate protection, then, on the other hand, the tax preference for peat has only worsened during the government. In other words, when in 2015, the tax on peat was reduced from EUR 4.9 to EUR 3.4 per megawatt hour and then last year to EUR 1.9 per megawatt hour, or less than half of what it was at the beginning of the government, this favours the very bad cause of CO2 emissions, peat, and there is no point in such a policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u246	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u247	Mr President! I started today at the Civilization 100 as a guest of the Ministry of Education and Culture and the University of Helsinki, and I must say that it hit a slightly bad day in the sense that, at the end of the evening, we will decide on a proposal to freeze index increases to the law on funding education and culture and to the law on free cultural work. The freezing of indices has contributed to the weakening of the foundations of Finnish education and culture, especially when they are taken into account in conjunction with the billion-dollar savings in education, research and civilisation. This government proposal has once again had a negative impact on the quality of education and its sole objective is to reduce the resources of education in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. Public finances can only be strengthened by investing in knowledge and growth, not by cutting. The continuation of the freezing of the indices is simply no longer justified in a situation where the economic situation has improved significantly and, for example, tax revenues have increased more than expected. We also know from the European Commission's follow-up report on how Finland's investment in education has gone in exactly the opposite direction as in the control countries, and that is where change is needed. As mentioned in the Government's proposal, the providers of education and the administrators of educational institutions have had to adjust their activities to the resources available. In practice, this has led to a strong development of inequality by region, while in other municipalities it has been possible to compensate for the cuts made with the municipality's own funding and in other municipalities it has not. Without additional funding from the municipality, the funding of upper secondary school, for example, has no longer been able to carry out activities of a high quality, and the funding bases for positive discrimination, for example, are very different. The student fees for liberal education and basic art education have also increased disproportionately. Financial cuts have increased the financial responsibility of municipalities and individual students in the costs of education. Mr President! We heard in committee, if you could say, a devastating assessment of the impact of this bill. That's why we're against index freezes. They undermine the financing of important basic services and leave a permanent gap in the financing of these activities. In practice, the adaptation of activities combined with other direct cuts in education means layoffs, bans on replacements, larger group sizes, lower optionality and a reduction in the number of teaching. The most severe cuts are directed at young people under the threat of exclusion. For these reasons, I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u248	Mr President! In accordance with protest number 2, I propose that the bill be rejected. As has already been said in earlier points in the debate today, education has already been cut significantly during this parliamentary term — you could say that more than enough. Two years ago, after the country was in severe financial distress, these cuts which were made at the time were still justified in some way, even though they were painful, but now that our economy has finally started to rise, there is no justification for further cuts in education. This government proposal, which is a pure bill of savings, would affect both the financing of pre-school and basic education, the financing of upper secondary school education and the funding of free education. In addition, it is proposed that all these savings corresponding to index increases be made on a permanent basis. Mr President! In remote areas in particular, the role of liberal education is very important, with other educational places often behind long distances. Of course, liberal education plays an important role in maintaining civilisation throughout the country, and some one million citizens use the services of liberal education every year. This index freeze proposed by the government therefore affects a very significant proportion of citizens, either in the form of an increase in course fees or, at worst, even in the form of a weakening or total end of teaching provision. It is an absolutely wrong development that we Finns cannot support. Mr President! Education institutions engaged in liberal education must continue to be used more and more as training places for preparatory, providing and organising training in secondary education, and cooperation with adult education centres should be stepped up. Finally, we would like to point out that sufficient resources have been made available to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u249	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes, as has been said here, to freeze index increases in the law on funding education and culture and in the law on liberal education. These freezes of indexes further undermine the basis of education and civilisation, given the billion-dollar savings already allocated to education, and in particular in this respect as a whole the proposal is extremely worrying. The proposal has a negative impact on the quality of education. It reduces the resources of education in basic education, free education, upper secondary schools and basic art education. And especially with regard to basic education, we should be extremely vigilant. It is a fact that the daily lives of schools are already extremely tight in many respects. This is reflected in the ability of the principals, which is reflected in the teachers, which is reflected in the pupils and in all the hopes and expectations we have for the learning, well-being and future of children and young people. We can't just stand by and watch. In upper secondary schools, cuts have been directed especially towards teaching, resulting in increased group sizes, reduced availability of optional courses and increased self-study without guidance. The government's actions have led to a development of inequalities by region, as has been said here, and in this case, other municipalities can afford to compensate for state cuts and others cannot. In addition to this, the performance weakens the museum, art and culture sectors. Surgery, for example, in liberal education work, has led to a decrease in the number of adult education centres and an increase in course fees. And regional disparities are growing, as the smallest regions are no longer able to provide adult education. Cultural activities are subject to savings, but the proposal does not include a comprehensive impact assessment of savings decisions. The Government has not considered how the cuts affect social well-being, the preservation of cultural heritage and the development of a multicultural society, for example. The continuation of the index freezes is not justified in this case as the economic situation has improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u250	Mr President! As has been pointed out in a number of good speeches, this is still the same anti-civilist policy that the government has pursued throughout this parliamentary term. That is to say, continuing cuts in education, which, with this proposal, also target basic education and upper secondary school, despite the fact that there are sometimes speeches in the direction of the Coalition Party claiming that the basic education and upper secondary school have not been cut by one cent. When it comes to basic education, we should also take into account the deductions that this government made at the beginning of the period in relation to equality funds, which were also directed towards the basic education side. It is particularly regrettable that, despite the fact that the government is now talking about the importance of education and civilisation, these savings decisions of this kind will continue despite the fact that there has clearly been a turning point in the economy towards a better one. As far back as the amending budget was concerned, the Left Alliance already suggested that some of the growing tax revenue would have been allocated to canceling these training cuts, but there was no support or response to it, but the government preferred to use these increased funds to repay the loan. So these are the words I'd like to support. Torst's rejection motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u251	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the previous critical speeches about the opposition, where it has been said that cuts in education and basic education and art are extremely worrying for a number of reasons. It has already been seen that basic education is no longer able to guarantee everyone, regardless of the background, an equal, high-quality basic education and an extension path to secondary education. Not only do these basic education cuts and cuts in upper secondary school education discriminate between children and young people, they are also worrying from the point of view of regional equality, as Mr Toivola pointed out well in his speech, because not all municipalities or cities have equal opportunities to compensate for these cuts made by the state through their own budget. However, we have had the idea that no matter where a child or young person happens to live in Finland, he or she has just as good a chance of good, high-quality basic education or teaching at a secondary level. These cuts in museums are also very regrettable in this situation, where, as has been said, the economy has already started. Museums can also be considered as factors that employ the region and ensure that cultural heritage and activities exist in all areas of Finland. It is very regrettable that such cuts to education, education, education and culture are now being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u252	Mr President! After all, the government has now told a story that they are no longer cutting out of education but, on the contrary, they are investing more in it. Well, the truth is different, and here is another example of how education is still being cut — right from that high school education and here too are these cuts and cuts from the basic art education of liberal education, cultural activities, theatres and orchestras. It is no wonder that there is no government party representatives in this Chamber at the moment, now that this truth here becomes clear that the training cuts are indeed still going on. - Oh, I hear there's a brave one. — Although the government has claimed otherwise, training cuts are still ongoing. It is quite clear that, now that the economic situation has improved, there is no doubt that earlier cuts should be reversed at this point and there should certainly be no further cuts to the educational sector. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case; indeed, we are faced with another proposal that cuts out of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u253	Mr President! This Government proposal amends the Law on Financing Education and Culture and the Act on Free Cultural Work so as to freeze index increases in practice. The savings would be targeted at educational institutions for liberal education, such as folk high schools, adult education centres, study centres, sports training centres and summer universities. We Finns in the Education Committee have submitted our own objections to the matter. Our main concern is the capacity of liberal educational institutions in the future when resources have been cut for a long time. Education institutions are also central to the provision of regional education, especially for sparsely populated regions. We believe that educational institutions for liberal education are an important piece of Finnish education and education. They offer, among other things, a lot of general education and continuing training that is also important for many people in their careers. Excellent opportunities to educate themselves free of charge or with relatively little money can be seen as pride in our system. This, if anything, supports lifelong learning. Let me remind you that in the case of liberal educational institutions, marginal activity cannot be mentioned, as it is exploited by as many as one million people per year. For years now, the providers of liberal education have had to reduce their supply of cutbacks. In my opinion, it is no longer sensible for Finnish civilisation to follow this proposal. That is why I support Mr Savio's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u254	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u255	Mr President! I propose to reject the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal in accordance with the objections contained in the committee's report. This is a deterioration in citizens' legal security and a deterioration in our environmental legislation, as environmental complaints are increasingly subject to a complaint authorisation. After all, this government has, through several separate steps, given its responsibility for monitoring the implementation of environmental legislation to the public, when the Ministry of the Environment has abolished the strengthening of regional plans and the right of appeal of regional ely centres has been limited. This means that it is increasingly up to the public to ensure that environmental legislation is implemented in practice. Now citizens are being deprived of the means to do this when things are being brought into the complaint authorisation system. In practice, this is also an asymmetrical change, for when earlier complaints had to justify why it was wrong, now, if you are trying to resolve a case raised, you also have to justify why this case fulfils the criteria for granting a permit to appeal, which are very strict. Where such a complaint is made by, for example, a company which has not received the environmental permit it wishes to obtain, it is much more likely that its company will have access to the legal expertise,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u256	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a show Hass did. The aim here is to achieve consistency, which is to be welcomed in itself, but the chosen method is not the best one. The right to appeal has been overstated and undermines the effective influence of citizens and organisations when their concerns are not brought before the courts. Environmental issues are very diverse and complex at regional level, and the permit to appeal is poorly suited to them, due to an incorrect decision, when the environmental damage cannot be reversed. That is why Mr Hassi's rejection proposal receives my support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u257	Mr President! What I have just said is to add that the government's proposal does not contain a real environmental impact assessment. The Government's proposal states that the environmental legislation which is at issue in this case does not change, but it is very unlikely that the implementation of this proposal will not have any impact on the environment. So far in environmental matters, the system of complaints has been avoided because things are complex and legally open to interpretation, many projects are unique and, when environmental damage occurs, they are often irreversible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u258	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u259	Mr President! I will make a statement in accordance with the protest, which reads: "The government requires that the government strengthen further the development of relief services over a longer period of time. In this case, the time limits for development measures must be sufficiently long." Mr President! This is the committee's report on the government's proposal to reduce the compensatory payments for farm relief services. In the autumn 2017 budget debate, the Government decided to allocate EUR 1 million in investment to a partial reduction in the replacement aid payments for relief services. The bill is in principle good because it helps farmers to cope with the current workload. So the government itself has made decisions in the right direction. However, the proposed investment of EUR 1 million is, in the opinion of the Finns Party, too small. The Government proposes an appropriation of EUR 1 million for the reduction of substitute subsidies for relief services. The alternative budget of the Finns Party proposes an increase of EUR 2 million to support agricultural leave. The government's proposal is therefore insufficient. The criticism also relates to the fact that the solution is only one year in the government proposal. The timeliness of the law is too short to see the actual effects of the law. Of course, we have already tabled a motion for a change to the paragraph on which the vote was taken, but here I am making this statement. And it has to be said that, in the government proposal, the hourly fee for the replacement allowance is EUR 12 and we would have EUR 10 and 50 cents. It is very important that we support farmers in their demanding profession and enable them to take and ask for replacement assistance if necessary, whether it is a holiday or a disease. We also objected in this protest that this law would be in force for two years instead of one, as the government does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u260	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mrs Juvose. As Mrs Juvonen has just said, Parliament did not really approve of our additional contribution to agricultural leave in the vote last week. We consider this proposal by the government for a small increase in investment to be a step in the right direction in itself, but still inadequate in terms of quantity, and this solution proposed by the government is also too short in terms of duration, so we proposed an extension, but these proposals really fell. Mr President! In the future, we must ensure that we also develop relief services in the longer term, as we called for in this proposal for a statement. It is important to keep working, especially in animal farms, where very hard work is done, and the survival of workers will of course also have an impact on animal welfare. It is worth remembering, therefore, that functional relief services are also important from the point of view of animal welfare and, of course, that the conditions for Finnish agriculture remain in order, also benefit from our security of supply. On these grounds, I certainly support this statement made by Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u261	Mr President! It should be noted in the parliamentary minutes that this proposal is, after all, positive with regard to the relief services for farmers, which means a reduction in the compensatory payments, and it is cost-saving. As Mr Savio said, farmers and livestock farms, in particular, have a lot of work to do, and it is therefore good that, now that we are reforming or changing holiday services, it is precisely the farmers-specific, entrepreneurship-specific relief system that remains and does not become farm-specific, starting to remind us of business aid, which is really not the case here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u262	Mr President! This amendment to the law on vacation services is very good. The situation of farmers, as we know, is very difficult at the moment, and we also know that a great many farms have stopped producing, and it does do a disservice to the Finnish food industry, Finnish health and Finnish people in general, because domestic food is certainly the cleanest in the world. And then such overwhelming factors, such as the weather conditions of this year, the general agricultural policy in the EU and then this increase in costs and lower food prices, have made an equation that is almost overwhelming for farmers. This bill, which is now under discussion, which will make it easier for us to replace it with EUR 1 million, is certainly a step in the right direction, but in order for us in this country to be able to ensure the production of domestic food and the almost 300,000 jobs that we have in the food chain from the field to the table, we must act much more decisively. This is, as I said, a step in the right direction, and, of course, this Lomitus Act and substitute aid cannot do much to help, but even the little that needs to be done let us do with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u263	Mr President! This is not about large sums of money, but for them, who will have to use these services next year, this temporary reduction in replacement payments will be very important. This will strengthen the working lives of farmers, farmers, and it is very good that the follow-up is now ensured. But, Mr President, it is also good to say in this context that, unfortunately, even this temporary discount will not be of use if the relief service is unable to produce it for those who need it if there are no expert vacationers to make substitute aid. Therefore, in order to satisfy the spirit of this law, too, we must be able to promote measures to safeguard the working conditions and availability of skilled and motivated holidaymakers. For example, the major administrative reform ahead must be able to secure the future of holiday services from the point of view of farmers and holidaymakers alike.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u264	Mr President! As has been pointed out in previous speeches, the importance of the relief service for the survival of farmers is extremely important, and we know that farming, and especially the work on animal production, is a bit hard physically, but especially it has been a mental burden in recent times, in relation to the plight of agriculture and these delays in the payment of subsidies, and some of the farms still have not managed, in a way, to make their economies and their payment systems fit for them when different special arrangements had to be made. And as Mr Savio has said here, when the farmer is doing well, then the animals will be doing well, because then he will be able to take care of them, and in that sense I think it is quite right that we should ensure that the services are in such a good condition and available, that we support the farmers' survival.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u265	Mr President! The Finnish producer is facing huge challenges at the moment, especially in terms of profitability. Farmers are not easy to get, and certainly not full-time farmers. And animal welfare also speaks. When a farmer, a producer, is unable, so easily so that animals can suffer. So everything that can be done for the producer at the moment is to be welcomed. It is important for us that we continue to have domestic products and security of supply remains, but it does not come just with words. I warmly support Mr Juvose's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u266	Mr President! In that first speech there was no mention of the welfare of the animals, the livestock, on the farms there. Finland lives in rural areas, and it is very important that the opportunities to practise a farmer's profession there are equal and uniform throughout Finland, and when a farmer is able to do his job, of course it affects everyone's well-being, family welfare and animal welfare, and we do not talk too much about animal welfare in Finland. Yes, it is one of the very important things that must also be constantly reminded, that is, how we treat those animals is also an expression of humanity. I would really like to support this statement by us — 'The Commission requires that the government strengthen the development of relief services in the longer term. In this case, the time limits for development measures must be sufficiently long." — i.e. I would like us to look to the future there, how the Finnish farmer can and can cope. And indeed the purpose of this statement would be to bring out the farmers and the Finnish countryside, the animals, all those who work there, including those who work hard and demanding work. They too must be noticed and seen that their work is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u267	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u268	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This government proposal concerns the provision in the Social Welfare Act that, in certain circumstances, the State would reimburse municipalities for the cost of emergency social services provided to persons who have received a negative asylum decision. In this bill the Finns have protested, and I present it here now. At the same time, I will make statements in response to the objections, as I also propose rejecting this bill. The statement of objections shall read as follows: ‘1. Parliament requires the government to take immediate action to register persons illegally staying in the country seeking urgent and essential social services in order to ensure their identity. 2. Parliament requires that the costs of urgent and necessary social services for illegal residents be monitored very closely. 3. Parliament expects the government to follow that the changes in the law do not serve as an attraction for illegal residents but instead encourage illegal residents to leave the country after receiving a negative asylum decision and urgent and necessary social services. 4. Parliament requires the Government to undertake an investigation into how urgent and necessary social services are organised and funded in other Nordic countries and Europe, and to bring this information to Parliament.” Mr President! This government proposal does not give new tasks to municipalities or new services to illegal residents. The purpose of the proposal is to share costs between the state and municipalities. True Finns understand that the state contributes to the extra costs of municipalities or to the costs in general. There has been a debate here today, among other things, about state contributions to basic services. I'm going to bring up a nurse's measure. I'm going to bring up the services of the elderly, for example. We also consider it important that action is taken in Finland to identify and help victims of trafficking in human beings. Yes, these concerns are common. However, we are concerned about the burden-sharing of this proposal between the state and the municipalities, because while the state is paying for urgent and necessary social services for those who have received a negative asylum, such as accommodation, food and medicines, essential medicines, it also creates incentives and incentives for those who have received a negative asylum decision so that their unauthorised residence may continue and they do not leave the country. We find this intolerable. Finland should take preventive measures to prevent illegal residents leaving Finland after a negative asylum decision has been taken. So this government proposal really opens up the possibility that municipalities will be able to send the invoice to Kela, the state, and the state budget will have taken into account some 5.4 million pots for next year, from which the costs will then be paid. We are concerned about this increase in costs. For example, the City of Helsinki has commented on staff costs in its expert opinion. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities also expressed concern as to whether funding was sufficient and whether it might be secured by an additional budget if necessary. So these topics of concern are really justified. We asked the committee how the cost of urgent social care for illegal residents has been organised in other Nordic countries and Europe. However, there is surprisingly little comparison between the distribution of costs between the state and municipalities according to the Government’s proposal. In Sweden, municipalities are responsible for the necessary assistance for illegal residents and are not compensated by the State. In other words, these costs are borne by the municipalities themselves. In Denmark, a person seeking international protection who has received a negative decision must leave the country. The Danish Immigration Service is responsible for supporting a foreigner until he leaves or is expelled from Denmark. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it would be important to have up-to-date information on how different social services and their cost distribution are regulated in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Mr President! There has been talk here of a decision made by Helsinki to provide health services to persons residing illegally. This government proposal makes it possible to find a payer for the costs that the municipalities now incur from these social services, which must be provided legally, and that is the state. And yes, the worry is that when the spike is open, the money will certainly increase. We currently have an Act on communicable diseases which precisely defines the treatment and assistance to be received by those living illegally as well as by everyone else — citizens, residents and non-residents. There is acute treatment, and there are a lot of diseases that can then be helped and protected. The essential services, whether they are social services or health services, come according to the law. You always have to look at them and think about how big a window is to be opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u269	Mr President! I support Mrs Juvose's motion for rejection of the legislative proposals and the proposals for statements in response to the objections. In essence, there seems to be a growing desire among municipal decision-makers throughout the country to provide more and more services to undocumented residents, i.e. illegal residents, as long as there is funding for them, and when the municipalities receive money from the state to organise essential social services, the municipalities seem to be very happy to extend these services. The subject was already discussed today on the previous point, but it should still be pointed out that the City Council of Helsinki decided last week to offer a large number of free social and health services to illegal residents. In future, undocumented persons will be entitled to the necessary treatment of chronic diseases, dental treatment, vaccination, mental health services and legal advice, and these services will also be advertised on the city’s website in a wide range of languages. The decision taken by the City Council of Helsinki among the citizens has quite rightly provoked enormous criticism, and many have even asked me, although I am not a Helsinkier, what is the general meaning of the legislation if even illegal residents are entitled to free services. This is both a matter of principle and of economy. I don't know what's more important, but both things are at stake. Mr President! Mr Juvonen has just pointed out the example of Sweden, where the municipalities themselves pay for the services they provide to illegal residents, and the Danish principle that illegal residents must leave the country. These are very good starting points, and they should also be kept in mind in Finland when legislation is being drawn up here and decisions are being taken. On these grounds, the bill should be rejected and the statements we make should be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u270	Mr President! When discussing this subject, it must always be remembered that we are talking here about people who have no apparent need for international protection or any other legal basis for residence in our country. This is intolerable from the point of view of general law-abiding. And when this presentation is given money, it always goes so that when there is money, there are takers for it. Who will ultimately assess whether the services have really been necessary? This is an incentive, as we have feared. These issues raised by representatives Juvone and Savio are important in any case, whether the law is adopted or not. These statements here are the least that can be done in a given country. It is essential to know who is being provided with health services. It is now the least that can be done to even register those who use these services. It is also necessary to monitor costs. At the moment, there is an attempt to save 3 billion people – that is to say, 3 billion people from the social and health services of Finnish citizens who are legally resident, by reducing the network of services – and, at the same time, the fact that what is offered to illegal residents is incomprehensible. The use of these services must be a clear point where people's data reach the authorities in order to start their removal. In addition, it is important and necessary that Finland does not offer services more attractive in terms of quantity or quality than other Nordic countries. This must not become a factor of attraction for social immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u271	Mr President! It is not in anyone's interest to remain illegally in the country. In 2016, the plan of measures for the prevention and management of illegal residence found that around 3800 persons have disappeared from the reception system. Up to 8,000 to 10,000 people can stay illegally in the country. And when we talk about cost estimates, the cost of accommodation per day is estimated at about EUR 35, the cost of food is slightly over EUR 7 and it is about EUR 5 per day. It is estimated that there will be between 500 and 1000 people in emergency accommodation for about three months, 1500 people seeking food compensation for six months, and the other costs will be based on 1000 people for six months. It is estimated that the total expenditure on municipal roads would be around EUR 5.4 million in 2018. This is indeed a completely new item, which has been put forward in the budget for next year, i.e. now that it is 5.4, this figure should be followed up on how much it will be then in 2019 and so on how much it will increase. It is true that while we are cutting off the services of Finns, the people who have built this society, and I am again talking about care for the elderly, home care and the quality of what is there and how many help hands there are, we are opening... Just as Mr Mäkelä well put it there, they are people who have no reason to stay in Finland. They're illegal. They have gone through all the processes and complaint processes, and there is no reason for them to stay here in Finland. In other words, we should have exactly the same line as Denmark, which means that when you are not allowed to stay, you must leave the country. It is not in anyone's interest to remain illegally in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u272	The 14th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u273	Mr President! I am submitting a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2, which reads: "The government requires that the government ensure that the security of basic income is not seriously affected." In addition, I will submit a motion to reject the bill. Mr President! This proposal proposes to adopt a law on indexation revisions of national pensions and certain other benefits in 2018. In accordance with this Act, the national pension index would be frozen to the level of 2017 by way of derogation from permanent legislation. The proposed law applies to all benefits linked to the National Pensions Index. The proposal concerns national pensions, guarantee pensions and other benefits that are adjusted on the basis of the national pension index or otherwise linked to the amount of national pension. These other benefits include disability benefits, front allowance, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Security Act, labour market support and child increase. The change would also apply to the basis for determining the benefits linked to the National Pensions Index and to the amounts of money, such as the limit of the annual own contribution for reimbursements of medicinal products. According to THL, the government's proposal increases low incomes, especially among those over 65 years of age. This is the result of a deterioration in the level of guarantees and national pensions, but also of greater taxation of pensions as a result of a reduction in the reduction in pension income. The draft laws are relevant to Article 19(2) of the Constitution. It guarantees everyone the right to safety of basic income during unemployment, illness, disability and old age, as well as the birth of a child and the loss of a guardian. That is what the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said. The Finns of Peru consider that the legislative proposals increase social inequality, as an example of pensioner poverty. The number of pensioners will increase further, and nominal withdrawals alone will not suffice. A large proportion of people who enjoy a national pension have to live on very low incomes. The True Finns believe that the proposal represents a weakening of the protection of basic income which, in view of the obligations imposed on the legislator, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u274	Mr President! I support Mr Juvose's motion for rejection and his proposal for a statement. The freezing of the National Pensions Index is a very severe economic policy measure which affects the lives of the most low-income people and makes it very difficult. This is particularly the case in the current situation, where the economy has finally started to rise, and the situation of well-off citizens in particular is beginning to improve significantly. This proposal is about such a weakening of basic income, even taking into account the tax increases affecting the price of government housing, which have been discussed here for a long time today, that this proposal is really difficult to understand. The position of the low-income people is already so difficult that further weakening of it is a rather irresponsible social policy. However, if the bill is adopted by a narrow majority of government parties in Parliament, the government should at least ensure the basic income of every citizen in the future, to which we refer in our own statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u275	Mr President! I object to the rejection of these legislative proposals and the adoption of the initiative for action proposed in objection 3, which is therefore Action 28/2017, i.e. submitted in these Parliaments. During this parliamentary term, the government's economic policy has reduced the disposable income of the most low-income households, and in particular this bill on indexation checks of national pensions and certain other benefits, as well as Article 2 of the National Pensions Index and other laws. The amendment proposed in this bill is broadly applicable to Finnish low incomes. The freezing of the index concerns national pensions, guarantee pension and other benefits that are adjusted on the basis of the national pension index and otherwise linked to the amount of national pension. Such other benefits include disability benefits, front benefits, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Security Act, labour market support and child increase. The change also applies to the basis for determining the benefits linked to the National Pensions Index and to the amounts of money, such as the limit of the annual own contribution for reimbursements of medicinal products. These indexation adjustments are intended to be permanent and will not be compensated for by subsequent national pension index adjustments. This is therefore a permanent decline in the daily lives of low incomes, which means that in the next few years the number of poor Finns will increase. Such a policy is not acceptable to the Green Parliamentary Group. The Greens believe that there is no sustainable justification for government index cuts and freezings and that they should not be accepted. We do not consider it sustainable or reasonable that index savings should be used to discipline families with children, unemployed people, pensioners, students, disabled people, military service providers and sick Finns in particular, while the Government's competitiveness pact with tax reductions favours high incomes and environmental pollution measures with a wide range of tax subsidies. These measures weaken the purchasing power of low incomes, which weakens domestic demand and growth prospects for domestic companies. It is incriminating that the government is actually cutting off those who are the weakest. When assessing the adequacy of the level of basic security, it has already been stated that its level is not sufficient to cover expenditure on reasonable minimum consumption, and in Finland, at 100 years of age, 20,000 Finns each week have to resort to food aid, and this proposal means that the number will increase in the coming years. In 2016 and 2017, the situation of low income earners has been hampered by cuts in almost all social security benefits, and insufficient basic security leads to increased and long-term use of income support and indeed to recourse to food aid. As has been discussed on several occasions today, increasing dependency on income support, especially on long-term income support, is not a sustainable policy from the point of view of poverty policy, employment policy and the national economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u276	Mr President! I support the motion made by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, which is to say the motion of objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u277	Mr President! Those living on guaranteed pensions and national pensions and on low-retirement pensions are in real difficulties because people are often elderly or citizens who have no chance of additional earnings. Poverty among pensioners is a fact, and there are more and more pensioners in bread lines. The fact is that even if you could apply for income support, many elderly people are not used to applying for that social assistance, they do not know how to apply for it or they do not want to apply for it, but want to get along on their own. That is one thing, which is why I support Mr Juvonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u278	Mr President! Certainly, when we move around with people, we all face those people out there and get phone calls from people who feel that pension is too small, for example. Last weekend, I have to say hello to the people I got. An elderly woman cried to me about how she had a small pension. However, he has worked his age, and that does not even reach the level of the guarantee pension. Of course it will be compensated that he gets that level. This is worrying in Finland. It is a great thing that the guarantee pension is being increased and should be increased, but at the same time these lowest, lowest, working pensions — in general, very often those of women on low incomes — are so small that it is quite unreasonable. You've been working your whole life, and what you're paid for as a pension is nothing. In a way, it also nullifies a person’s career and what he has done in life. In other words, we also need a full turn in society when it comes to talking about the smallest occupational pensions and about the people who receive its smallest earnings-related pension, whether it is reasonable or not, and, indeed, whether there is a sort of pension ceiling. But indeed this government proposal is making them even worse for over 65 years. Pensioners, as I said in my speech, so this freezing policy is freezing and freezing. But the fight continues to make the voice of the elderly heard. As a new phenomenon, more and more pensioners are also helping their children or grandchildren in poverty, i.e. helping their little ones, and that is a problem when it comes to over-indebtedness, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u279	Mr President! Mr Juvonen has just pointed out very well that it is precisely those people who do not have a large, impressive, well-known, financial lobbying machine behind them who are the worst affected by this proposal. There is, of course, a lot of contact from the individual people who are suffering from their financial difficulties until the very end before even contacting us as parliamentarians, let alone going to the livelihood hatch, which of course is their last resort. Some of these people are seen in the bread queues, but many are trying to get along with this small retirement, which is unfortunately now affected by this freeze. Yes, it must be remembered that there are so - called old - union men and women who have long been in work and are accustomed to getting along with their own work, not seeking help elsewhere. For them, this is the hardest part. Indeed, these indices are being frozen if there is a small pension, and a little national pension is still being paid, so to speak, as butter on bread — they too are affected. These index changes in occupational pensions made by Parliament in the 1990s have, of course, reduced their working pensions, and this pensioner poverty is already a fact. Even if it had been the case at the time of retirement that wages had been quite good at the time and that there had been decades of work, it may well be that now, after some 20 years of retirement, the situation has become substantially worse. Yes, Parliament should definitely ensure that these very quietest people in the country are listened to and taken into account much more seriously than the government now seems to be doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u280	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u281	Mr President! In the course of this evening's sitting, we have discussed cuts in social security and low income income incomes as well as cuts in education and training, and this proposal now under discussion actually relates to both issues. Students are among the people who have suffered most from government economic policy and cuts. The biggest cut in individual benefits during this parliamentary term was the cut of EUR 112 million in student money, and in addition, education has been cut at all stages from early childhood education to higher education. This giant cut, as it were, has been proposed by the government to transfer students to the general housing allowance and this now under discussion bringing the care-sharing breed into student support. The maintenance increase is in itself a very welcome reform of the structure of student support, but the main problem is that the livelihood of family students is still worse than when this government starts operating. This is due to the fact that the financial situation of family students is affected both by the student allowance cut of EUR 86 per month from the study grant and also by the change in the calculation of the general housing allowance in connection with the transfer of students to the general housing allowance. Thus, family students were already covered by general housing allowance and their financial situation deteriorated as a result of this change in calculation method. The total amount allocated to the care-sharing breed is also much lower than the cut on the student grant. Well, transferring students to the general housing allowance will improve the financial situation of some students but will continue to leave a large proportion of students in a weaker position than before the start of this government. The transfer of students to the general housing allowance came into force at the beginning of August this year, and today we already have new proposals brought by the government that weaken and cut the general housing allowance. The present increase in guardianship is therefore a welcome structural reform in itself, but it does not change the government's policy towards a positive student or educational approach. The economic situation of families with children who are studying will continue to be very difficult, and the need to reduce the poverty of families with children will remain equal. I would therefore like to make the following statement: "The government requires that the changes to the student support system monitor the impact on the financial situation of student families and on the poverty of families with children, because the 75 euro parental allowance proposed by the government is not sufficient to cover the deterioration in the student allowance and housing allowance made."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u282	Mr President! A parent increase of EUR 75 will be necessary for many family students. There are not many children to see in student families, and one reason for this is the financial situation of students. It would be great if the carer increase were now higher than that proposed, but EUR 75 is also a good supplement to cover everyday expenses. The reform of vocational education and training will increase the variation in the way in which studies are conducted. This, in turn, requires greater flexibility from the student support system. It is good that this issue is already being taken into account in this proposal. The reduction of the conditions for granting aid by extending the maximum period of study should be supported. Although the completion of studies within the target periods is what is intended, it is good to have flexibility in situations of justified delay. For example, many family students can influence the progress of their studies in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u283	Mr President! This government proposal is also excellent in view of the financial situation of family students. After all, this was already a clear objective for the centre to support family students at the time of the government negotiations, and now, at second reading, we have an increase in the EUR 75 study grant for family students. And what I think is important here is that this is a genuine increase, that when you look at housing allowance or other income that comes, or when you look at care fees or private care support, this is not taken into account as income, when this really genuinely benefits the student families into which the child is born during study, and is also apt to send a message from society that yes to study and work, but in this case, above all, to study and also to create a family, can and society, however, encourage this issue and is also helping to support those families in which one or both parents are also studying. All in all, it can be said that a very good — and it can be said that an excellent — government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u284	Mr President! It is clear that this increase in guardianship here is a very welcome government proposal. However, it is exactly as Mr Andersson put it earlier, that is, the overall picture here is easily blurred as far as the income of students is concerned, as a result of the overall policy taken during this term of government. I therefore support the statement proposed by Mr Andersson, which therefore explicitly seeks to monitor the impact of the changes to the entire student support system on the financial situation of the student families, since this EUR 75 parental increase still does not cover all the weakenings that have been made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u285	Mr President! As has been said here, it is proposed to amend the Student Support Act. In order to improve the income of students who care for a child, it is proposed to increase the amount of EUR 75 as guardian of a minor child receiving a study grant. The proposal is acceptable in itself, but not without any problems, and it should be looked at, as has been said here, as part of a wider package, when we look at the income of students and the role of families with children in society. As I said, the increase in guardianship as such is good and makes it easier for some to study at the same time and to take care of the children of students. The EUR 75 carer increase will promote the conditions and opportunities for full-time study for the lowest-income families. It may also reduce the need for students to rely on income support for some, but at the same time Samok points out in his own statement, for example, that the increase of EUR 75 per guardian is less than the cut in the student allowance that entered into force on 1 August 2017, which was EUR 86. The maintenance increase is also about one-half lower than the amount of child increase withdrawn from study aid in 92 in the current currency. In connection with this increase in parental responsibility, some opinions also raised the suggestion that the money should also be paid to those who are not guardians, and these discussions concerned specifically with the different forms of family, family models and that our system should take the greatest possible account of all the different families. It is important that the committee also stressed in its own opinion that, in practical terms, it was precisely the aim of treating all families as equally as possible, and it is desirable that the system should also develop in the future, as well as our understanding of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u286	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u287	Mr President! Reducing customer fees for low and middle incomes in early childhood education is a great idea. The calculation of contributions from siblings is also a relief for the daily expenses of families with multiple children. This, in turn, has an impact on employment in the long run and contributes to the dismantling of incentive traps. It is estimated that as a result of the change, municipal income on payments will decrease by around EUR 71 million. This should be compensated for by a change in taxation for municipalities in a more favourable direction. I also have some reservations that the proposal creates pressure to increase the funding for private early childhood education. I agree with the Committee on Education that it is great that early childhood education payments are falling, but I believe that the reforms proposed by the proposal are problematic for many municipalities. Firstly, the impact of the proposals varies a lot from one municipality to another, and from the cost estimates it can be said that it is a very conservative estimate. Cost calculations do not take into account, for example, the investments required by the increasing number of children. The increase in the lower limit of the property tax was supposed to be one of the means of compensation for payment income to municipalities, but fortunately the government has indicated that there is no change in the property tax in this respect. Now the only thing is that compensation for municipalities remains lower than planned and nothing compensatory has been proposed. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the reform is administratively challenging for municipalities. Finally, I would like to point out that the objective of bringing the proposal into force already at the turn of the year is too hasty with regard to timetables. Mr President! In connection with the Government's proposal 113, many parties have expressed concerns about the ability of municipalities to cope with the provision of basic services. I therefore hope that this statement, as suggested by the Finns-Finnish Party, will receive a great deal of support, and the statement reads: "The government requires that the government take immediate measures to fully compensate the municipalities for the loss of income resulting from the reduction of the fees for early childhood education." — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u288	Mr President! The Government's proposal to reduce the cost of early childhood education for low and middle-income earners is very welcome. It is estimated that around 6,000 families will reach the zero pay grade, which will improve equal opportunities for children in early childhood education. The reductions are particularly targeted at families with multiple children, which eases the financial burden on many families and eliminates the threat of inequality. The proposal facilitates the economic situation of families with children, and it is estimated that 4200 people will be employed by 2021. The only concern of the proposal is the cost of discounts, which must by no means fall under the responsibility of the municipalities alone. It is therefore necessary for the government to compensate the municipalities for the financial losses caused by the proposal. There was also some criticism that early childhood education decisions should be more predictable. Predictability is of the utmost importance, and any legislation that fumbles brings its own challenges, which can also affect the everyday lives of day care centres and resources there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u289	Mr President! This proposal to reduce the fees for early childhood education is a very good bill, and it is likely to improve the conditions for working and thus improve the employment rate in Finland, which is fortunately now on a small increase. Mr President! I support the proposal made by Mrs Elomaa, which would oblige the government to fully compensate for the loss of income for municipalities resulting from the reduction of early childhood education fees. Indeed, it is very strange that although the Government Programme contains a record that the financing of additional obligations for municipalities is fully guaranteed from the state budget, it does not seem to be fully implemented in terms of the statutory reduction of customer charges. In addition to the fact that municipalities' incomes are actually falling by around EUR 110 million according to this proposal, the committee hearings showed that the municipalities are under strong pressure to invest because the total number of children taking part in early childhood education is most likely to increase significantly as a result of the fall in payments, and therefore more investment in day-care centres is needed. Mr President! As stated in this proposal, the government has decided to compensate some of these income losses to municipalities by increasing the central government share of basic services and also by increasing the share of corporate tax distribution to municipalities. These are very fair, good ways of improving the economic situation of municipalities, but the original proposal contained this third and very special instrument, i.e. an increase in the thresholds for property taxes. It was finally unfulfilled. That would have been a very bad way. The municipalities already have enough room for manoeuvre to increase property taxes if they see fit. This performance would have brought nothing new. Fortunately, it was withdrawn under strong opposition pressure, but these are missing [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u292	Mr President! In my opinion, too, this reduction in these early childhood education contributions is to be welcomed and a good thing in itself, but, like the speeches above, I share the concern about the impact this will have on the economy of the municipalities, and I wonder whether the principle of government was not, in fact, that if the municipalities were to be created or reduced in their incomes, these things would be fully compensated by the economy. Local government finances are still very weak at the moment, and I have to say that now, if there is pressure from these rebates, they often come back for cutting off non-statutory services, such as open day care centres, which are very important for children and families in home care. Now that the government is also removing child relief, this, in essence, seems to be a savings solution. The True Finns would also maintain those child deductions and have presented the money in their alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u293	Mr President! Like the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I too very much welcome this proposal. The customer fees for early childhood education will be reduced by around EUR 71 million by changing the income limits of families and by reducing the contribution to the second child in early childhood education. The reform will support the participation of children in early childhood education. In addition, with the reduction of the incentive trap effects, it is estimated that some 4200 people will be employed by 2021, which will both generate social security savings and generate additional tax revenues for society. In particular, raising income limits will reduce customer fees for early childhood education, especially for small and middle-income families, and the biggest reductions will affect families with multiple children. Payments will be reduced for all families who have paid a fee below the maximum fee and for almost all families whose income level is just below the maximum fee limit. In addition, thousands of low-income families move to free early childhood education, which is of course great. This will facilitate the economic situation of families with children and dismantle incentive traps. Indeed, according to expert feedback, the incentive-trap effect of early childhood education payments is the highest among single-parent families with low income incomes and families with multiple children. According to the expert feedback received, the reduction in early childhood education fees during this Government term will have a significant impact on the economy of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u294	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u295	Mr President! Drunk driving is morally highly reprehensible and anyone who does not pay his fines must be condemned to the conversion penalty. Otherwise, general law will be weakened. Nevertheless, the government is pushing through a law that brings impunity to the Finnish legal system. Today, a DUI sentence is handed down at a district court, which turns the outstanding fine into imprisonment. With the change introduced by the government in this proposal, drunken driving will be dealt with in a police fine procedure. A drunk driver’s pension imposed by a police fine cannot be converted into imprisonment. That drunk driver cannot then be converted into imprisonment even if the fine is not paid and it cannot be recovered. It is a very special and bad thing for the government to propose the abolition of the effective penalty for the conversion of this DUI. Therefore, if a drunk driver does not pay his fine, the government’s proposal will enable him to get away with the crime completely without punishment. The government’s proposal is therefore likely to increase the number of drunk driving and to reduce road safety. The government's objective in this proposal is to save money. The pursuit of savings in the way proposed by the government is a very short-sighted judicial policy. In the state of justice, it is not done in such a way that, for reasons of savings, a criminal is not put in prison for drunken driving. The handling of drink-driving penalties in police fines also undermines legal protection. The Judiciary has well and comprehensively stated in its expert opinion that the government’s proposal tends to undermine the principle of judicial jurisdiction in criminal matters. It is also questionable, in terms of the consistency of the legal system and the integrity of criminal law, that the penalty for drunken driving is dealt with through general courts, while the appeal procedure for a driving ban is transferred to the administrative court. The administrative court has, among other things, a judicial fee of EUR 250, a fee that has just been increased. That payment in itself also undermines the legal security of the low-income suspects. A bigger problem with this administrative right-of-dom route in the form of a ban on driving is probably that the appeal of the administrative court is often very slow. In this case, in the case of longer driving bans, the appeal becomes completely superfluous because the driving ban will be terminated sooner than the administrative court can decide on the matter. It can therefore be said that this government's proposal will lead to a reduction in legal certainty or even, in some cases, a total loss of legal certainty. Mr President! I propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u296	Mr President! I support Mr Tavio's proposal to reject legislative proposals. It is very important that the person who committed the DUI can continue to be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Drunk driving is a self - inflicted serious act and can indeed pose serious danger to bystanders. Under no circumstances will a mere fine be sufficient to convict a drunk driver. This proposed change in case law would send the wrong moral message and would be a step in the wrong direction and in no way acceptable. In general, the punishment procedure must be sufficiently strict and not be mitigated by the reasons for savings, as, unfortunately, seems to be the case in this case. Particularly important is the principle stated in the objection to the report that it makes no sense to legislate unless there is a penalty for breaking the law. Nor does such a law act as a deterrent to crime. These are very wise words, and they should also be remembered by the government when the criminal law is changed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u297	Mr President! Once again, this proposal deals with the fundamental issue of the sense of justice of whether serious crimes are in fact always punished and whether the savings in the state economy can be the basis for slipping away from the fact that the sanction actually and in fact affects them. It's a serious question. What is the price of the laws being respected? What about the price of people trusting the justice system? The government is shortsighted in questioning this confidence with yet another motion. I do not think there is any justification for the small number of people affected: it is not a valid argument here, because it is a question of principle. Since drunken driving is a serious and high - risk act, it must always be punished. It is untenable to think that the offender will not ultimately have to settle fines, even in prison. That is why I warmly support the motion for rejection of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u298	Mr President! In the way government parties act, now that much has been said about the poor level of legislation, especially in the last two years, it seems, in this case too, very typically, that the opinions of experts are completely ignored in practice. Both professors of criminal and procedural law heard by the Committee on Legal Affairs considered the abolition of the conversion penalty for drunken driving to be a clear violation of general law. Neither of them recommended it. This was also stated by the District Court of Helsinki in its opinion. We are therefore in a difficult situation if Finland’s best criminal law experts are no longer listening to significant changes in the criminal justice process. Similarly, it is unfortunate to have to doubt whether even the representatives of the government parties are aware of the legislation they are promoting, because there is no defender of the government's proposal here, not one to tell the counter-arguments which the people would certainly be interested in hearing about such a special piece of legislation leading to impunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u299	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u300	Mr President! I propose that the government's proposal be rejected in accordance with the objections to the committee's report. The reasons for this were already clear at the first reading of the draft law. After all, this increase will go entirely to the owners of the waters. No arguments were put forward in the committee’s expert hearings for increasing the owner’s compensation. The owners of fishing waters can use this compensation money without any new obligation to manage their waters. So far, the management of fishing waters has mainly been based on plantations, with the aim of promoting the natural growth of fish stocks. There is no guarantee that this ownership compensation money will be used to what exactly is the objective of the management of fishing waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u301	Mr President! I am in favour of this representative. Hassi's objection. As Mr Hassi has said, it seems that this increase is only because more money is needed and the amount of fisheries management fees has not been as it was estimated when the fisheries law was reformed, but that it is the target that has been left behind, and now we want to increase the fees in order to make this right. A bigger problem than the actual increase in payment is what this money will be spent on. There is no obligation here in itself what the owners of the waters do with this money, and this is perhaps the most problematic point, because it is quite clear that when the fish management fee is paid, the payer has such a notion that, well, this money goes now to the management of this stock, but whether it goes there is not guaranteed. The committee’s expert hearings had revealed that about 70 percent of these go to it, and otherwise the money goes only to the owners of the waters. Then the fisheries management measures that are mainly carried out are precisely planting, although on the other hand we know that it is not very effective, but that what should be done as a management measure is precisely promoting natural reproduction. That is why this objection is very well founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u302	Mr President! The committee's expert consultation raised concerns that the increase in the management fee does not secure the long-term payment. The longer-term problem is that the proportion of fishermen who have been exempt from payment for 65 years of age will continue to grow and young people will not be subject to the same amount of payment. The net loss is around 5000 payers per year, which is estimated to mean a reduction of around EUR 200,000 per year in the accrual of payments. In principle, the increase in funding for fisheries management can only be achieved by increasing payments, extending the payment base or ensuring that as many fishermen as possible are paid. That is why the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry stresses the importance of controls and adequate sanctions to ensure that fishermen liable for payment also pay the fisheries management fee. In addition to better monitoring, it is good to highlight this excellent hobby better so that more and more young people try fishing as a hobby and thus get the number of fishermen and contributors back on the growth path.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u303	Mr President! Mr Viljanen pointed out ways of increasing this revenue from the management fee. It is therefore very important that consideration be given to these other means, for example, everything that can be done to increase fishing activity and, in particular, to increase the interest in fishing among the younger age groups. One of the shortcomings of the government's proposal is that these other means of increasing the revenue from payments have not been considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u304	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u305	Mr President! This bill aims to reduce unnecessary regulation and administrative burdens in relation to, inter alia, radio advertising and mobile communications services, as well as to clarify the conditions for the granting and setting up of software licences for radio and television activities, including monitoring fees. For these conditions of authorisation and authorisation: I am very pleased that one of the reasons for this motion is that the permit is not granted or may be refused if this is a criminal offence against the people's group, whether in radio or television and in the software in it, and I think this is very good that this is what this law is getting. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinion, it is in no way a restriction on freedom of expression. The second point I would like to make is that this bill will increase the accessibility of the TV programme by increasing the obligation to subtitle programmes. We know that subtitles are very important not only for those with hearing impairments, but also for those who speak Finnish or Swedish as a foreign language, for example, and then it is also important to the elderly all the time that the same message comes through both the sense of sight and the sense of hearing. It is very gratifying to note that the committee has still changed the proposal so that it has increased this proportion of voice and subtitle services from 50% to 75% in the government, and this is very happy news for those with visual and hearing impairments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u306	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u307	Mr President! This government bill therefore concerns the conversion of old passenger cars into gas or renewable fuels and aid to them, and then the purchase aid for new electric cars, but also the scrapping premiums. After all, there are quite an elderly fleet of cars in Finland and there are very good results in terms of scrapping premiums, but, of course, in terms of renewable energy targets and mitigation of climate change, I think that even just ordinary Finns can be involved in the fact that their own old car can also be replaced for gas or other renewable fuels. Electric cars are going to export the industry and reach large market shares, but they are still very pricey, and I think it is very important that this proposal should limit the purchase aid for electric cars to EUR 50000, which is also a very expensive car, but it may still indicate that technology is still expensive at this stage. Of course, at this stage, when the government gives this kind of support to electric cars for the first time in the history of Finland, it will be a very significant head start, but in the coming decades the number of electric cars will certainly increase in many respects. However, it is not in line with sustainable development that the existing fleet of cars should be left unused or exported for direct scrapping during its lifetime, but, of course, they should be run out of time, and for that purpose these conversion aids for gas and ethanol are very good and necessary. Then, of course, it is a good thing that the committee also took a position on the new modes of transport, which are generated by the sharing economy and all the new intelligent technologies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u308	Mr President! Overall, the proposal for a scrapping premium must be supported and served the purpose of reforming the car fleet. However, in future, if, and hopefully when, similar systems are brought before and decided by Parliament, citizens who cannot afford to buy a new car, let alone an electric car, should also be better taken into account, for example by extending the procedure to relatively new second-hand cars, as reflected in the committee's report. I also prefer a technology-neutral approach and an income angle to try to reform the car fleet from the point of view of road safety rather than just blindly staring at emission values. However, there are transport needs for which these low-emission cars are not reasonably sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u309	Mr President! As mentioned above, this scrapping premium, which was tried before and proved to be very successful, is certainly an effective way of renewing the fleet and making it more emission-efficient, environmentally-friendly and also more secure. I am also very pleased that this is taking into account not only the purchase of new electric cars, but indeed this, if you turn your existing car into gas or ethanol. And just as the committee report states, I would have liked this support to have been given for the purchase of a second-hand electric car and, in fact, these ideas in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that this could also have been used, for example, for the purchase of electric bicycles or that this would not necessarily be tied to the purchase of a new car, but rather to the purchase of those transport services. In other words, compensation could also have been obtained if the options for the sharing economy were to be transferred, or, for example, subsidies for seasonal public transport cards, because the idea is, I suppose, to think about how to make mobility more low-emission and environmentally friendly. Then it is actually irrelevant what form it is, how it will move in the future when you want to get rid of the present, higher-emission car.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u310	The 22nd item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u311	Mr President! In the Government's proposal 116 student and student care services are extended to a larger part of vocational education and training. The presentation brings the undergraduate students to an equal position. The expert hearings concerned the adequacy of the services and the fact that the increase in the State contribution does not cover the costs of the reform. People without qualifications are likely to have a large need for support. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs noted the need to monitor the adequacy of resources closely and regularly. The school health survey revealed the following: 22.3 per cent reported insufficient assistance from the school curator and 28.2 per cent reported insufficient access to school psychologist services. With the reform of the Sote and Province, attention must also be paid to the availability of education services as a local service. I have been thinking about these reasons why so many young people are unwell and mood pills are being prescribed to young people, why this is the case at the moment. And what could be drawn from that old form of school — then sometimes — is that, for example, the same group was in the same class as the classmates for five years in the middle school. We were so lucky too that our class supervisor was still the same person. There was a sense of unity, a sense of community, a group of people. Now it doesn't exist because it's a course study. Of course, it is difficult to go back to the old school — now it is basic school and there is a lot of good in it — but this lack of class is one of the things that can cause this situation. Especially the boys would like to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-129.u312	Mr President! This bill is very welcome and it is very good that the right to psychological and curator services under the Student and Student Care Act is extended to all undergraduate and preparatory students. But, as Mrs Elomaa has already said, there is concern about the number of professionals who provide these support in relation to students and whether there is sufficient resources for everyone to receive it when they need it, especially when we know that at the earlier stage we can provide help and support to those who need it, the more effective it will be and also the more cost-effective but also much more humanely effective. It would therefore be important to organise additional training for curators as the job image expands and then monitor the need for support for students who are now excluded from these expanding services, because, although this is an extension of these services, some of the students, such as those preparing for vocational and specialist qualifications, will not be covered by these services either.
