ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! When this present government took action, one important task was to dismantle standards and deregulation. In the Government Programme negotiations, Mr Vanhanen drew up a special working group focused on housing policy, which was specifically responsible for finding ways to accelerate construction and land use and housing production. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Now we have seen and read in the papers and also in the statistics that there has been a turnaround in the economy. Representative Rantakangas said a moment ago that in 2010 citizens' confidence in the outlook not only of their own but also of Finland's economy was as strong as it is at present. The country's economy has now grown on every front.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u5	Mr President! First of all, I shall table a motion of rejection in accordance with protest 1, and then I shall explain why I did so. The previous speaker suggested that this amendment to the Land and Building Act would have something to do with speeding up housing construction. That is not the case. This mainly concerns rural areas and, on the other hand, the liberalisation of the construction of large commercial units. Instead, it would be extremely important for us to take measures to make planning more flexible, particularly from the construction point of view, so that construction and transport connections work better together. And thanks to the transport investments that have been made in Finland over the last ten years, construction has accelerated, and it is a good cross-section of the track built around the airport, for example, in Vantaa. But if there is talk of living and affordable housing, these investments alone will not solve affordable housing. To do this, we need to do quite different things, and then we need to change the system we currently have, so that we can ensure that social support goes only to housing built at cost-cost prices. This is the government's line that these ten-year interest-rate subsidy models support the grynders. Then there is also a really wrong tree if it is estimated that bureaucracy is being dismantled and the standard is being dismantled by removing the right of appeal from the Ely Centres to the illegal patterns of the municipalities. The Ely Centres have made about 4% of all complaints, 80% of which have been successful, i.e. it has been very important that the Ely Centres have had this tool at their disposal. It has specifically prevented municipalities from making illegal formulas. In other words, when there is a general talk here of the slow - down effect of complaints, the wrong tree is actually being called. That problem hasn't been in the Ely Centers. On the contrary, they ensure that municipalities act according to the law and that everyone is treated equally. If there is one thing here about urban areas, it is the use of this general formula as the basis for a building permit, and unfortunately there are great dangers in these areas, where the building pressure is high, is being built up in hasty, without a detailed formula, and then there is easily a wolf: weak construction areas, there is no careful consideration of the recreational areas, which are the areas of transport and which are the areas of residential activity. These should definitely be careful that we make a residential area that will last to see and experience, to live for a long time. This proposal also — if we compare the fact that the Ely Centres are deprived of the right to control the legality of the formulas and are transferred to the municipal authorities, it is said here that it is directly the duty of the municipalities to monitor in future that the municipalities make legal formulas — at the same time, it is possible that even formulas at the level of the station plan are made either by boards or by governments. In other words, they may not even come to the Council level and there is a great contradiction in the ability of local authorities to monitor. This land use and construction law needs to be amended, but it must be done in a uniform way so that this use of land on which construction is based becomes consistent, treats different residential areas, different landowners equally, enables leisure and recreational activities, and we have therefore required these changes to take place within the framework of the overall reform, not in such a fragmented way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u8	Madam President! This land use and construction law, which is now being amended for the sixth time in this period, is more than 20 years old and has been amended many times over the years. I was very surprised that the meeting was hoped that even more of this kind of shredded round during this season. You are very alone in this vision, fortunately, and the Ministry of the Environment has waken up to what the Committee on the Environment has repeatedly called for: an overall reform of the Land Use and Building Law is needed in order to bring it to the level that it meets today's needs. There was also concern about the number of complaints and their slowness. Well, here it is suggested that a building permit could be granted on the basis of the general formula. If what adds to the differences in interpretation and through it can lead to exactly the opposite of what this is intended to achieve. In fact, these processes may be further prolonged, taking into account its weakening impact on urban planning. This is the biggest change in terms of the large unit of trade, which, unfortunately, will disintegrate the structure of the community when the large units return to it as field markets. The development that Jan Vapaavuori once rejected and the centre wants to bring back would mean, for example, from Helsinki’s point of view, that a truly growing big city cannot be built on the basis that it is based on an ever-increasing need for motoring. A functioning community structure must rely on functional, genuinely attractive public transport. Mr President, I support the rejection proposed by Mrs Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u9	Mr President! We representatives of the government parties, in accordance with the Government Programme, are very pleased with this bill on land use and buildings, which is what this is. This really does de-bureaucratise and has a lot to do with things: they will go more smoothly and efficiently in the future. This is just what needs to be done in this time and spirit. The last two speeches were that this right of appeal of the Ely Centres should not have been limited. We have done exactly what needs to be done here: so that we can now talk together with the Ely Centres. The locals have people who know what they're doing. We must be able to trust that sensible decisions are taken in the municipalities. Individuals, after all, retain the right to appeal if the right to appeal is to be exercised. But the people in the Ely Centres will be discussed, negotiated and talked together, and not just focused on complaining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u10	Mr President! Surely this can happen in a world built on images. The Ely Centres will cease to exist after the regional reform and the provinces have not been given these tasks in this respect. For example, the Supreme Administrative Court has been very critical of whether this proposal will reduce red tape and streamline these practices, because there will be so many unclear points. That we must first consider whether or not there is a right of appeal and who has the right of appeal, and then decide this, and then we can only proceed to the actual complaint. I also think it is bad that this transparency is being reduced in municipalities at the same time as monitoring tasks are being carried out on municipal citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u11	There were so many responses requested that I ask you to book them now through the button, and everyone will certainly be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u12	Mr President! We know that there is still a very large amount of investment in complaints that would start if they had not been complained about. After all, this is now a practice in which it is hoped that the authorities will seek a solution by negotiation at the stage of the preparation of the matter and not by seeking justice by means of complaints. In my opinion, the least that can be expected of the state authorities and of the authorities in general is to cooperate with one another and not to watch the other’s actions, but to negotiate at the same table. Against this background, this is the right thing to do and it also reduces bureaucracy. What matters most is that we have to get into a culture where things can be solved without always having to complain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u13	Madam President! First of all, on this overall reform of the Land and Building Act: Indeed, it is already under preparation in the Ministry. It is a major task, and it will not come from there during this parliamentary term, but it is coming, as Silvia Modig knows about the committee's hearings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u16	Madam President! To Mr Kiuru, I would like to say that the solar panels are indeed a very welcome reform, but, as a whole, this legislative package is very poor for the community structure. This, of course, depends on the point of view we look at things, but the land use and construction law must be able to be written in such a way that it serves the living countryside, but also the growing cities. From the point of view of the growing city, this is not working, and that is precisely why it is not desirable, as Mr Heinonen in the previous speech wanted us to do many more rounds of this little shredding reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u19	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the Land Use and Building Act is being reformed in the direction of cutting red tape, as is the case with the government programme. It is pointless to pay for someone to complain and get the right to appeal on the grounds that he disagrees. Land ownership or lease right always involves building rights. If anyone wants to build a home, it should be congratulated on that, not by digging up all the means to prevent it from being built. We currently have projects worth almost EUR 3 billion in Finland that stand because complaints have been made and are out there all over the world waiting for a solution. Is that really what the demars are saying, for example, that we must not create more jobs, but that we will then allow all the world's stutterers to complain and to block jobs? It's not like there's a world going to ruin when we build a new one and fix the old one. That is a very good thing. For example, the putting of solar collectors around Finland, mentioned by Mr Kiuru, in different places, is a very worthwhile thing. Are you against this, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u20	Madam President! Mr Modig should be answered that it is not a question of either—or. So it is not a question of partial reform or of total reform; it is a question of both. It makes sense to prepare for this overall reform, as has been said here, but sometimes it happens that when there is a very wide-ranging overall reform, then it is expected for years and nothing will happen. It is justified that, even during that period, partial reforms can be made, which will most effectively address these acute problems. Personally, I would have pointed out the inhibitions or, in fact, the absence of any such complaints. It is often said that it is always worthwhile to complain. However, it could be thought that legal fees, or even the cost risk, would be used to deal with such complaints, apparently only for the purpose of harming or prolonging.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u21	Madam President! I should like to comment on that patchwork matter brought by Mr Modig. The constant change to the Land Use and Building Act is, of course, also a consequence of changes in society, but we must remember history a little: in the late '90s, the Greens were in the government, and those who were ministers then can be found in this Parliament. At that time, all responsibility for the authorities, designers and similar foremen was transferred to the building project, which apparently did not quite succeed in this land use and construction law so perfectly that there would be no constant need for this kind of change. Let us remember, too, that power has largely shifted under control. It is still voluntary: quite far the terraced house is allowed to be built before the need for a supervisor,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u22	Mr President! During this season we have often seen government parties riding two wheels. On the other hand, it is said on the electoral courts that there is no money for Greece and, at the same time, support packages are being approved here in Parliament. On the other hand, a reassessment of the cut in vocational education and training will be promised, and then the proposals themselves will be rejected. They have been used to seeing these from the Finns and the city centre, but the central news of this discussion is that, even when municipalists are on top of it, the convention if someone is now driving two wheels: While the municipal halls warmly speak for urbanisation and a dense urban structure, there is now a bill under discussion in which there is not even a memory of the rational urban policy line of Vapaavuori.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u25	Madam President! Now I have to answer Mr Lindtman a little bit: Firstly, if we look at the facts at the moment, we have some EUR 2.9 billion in line, 14,000 jobs in line. If we talk about waiting for an overall reform, let us say that we are waiting a few years again for these projects to move forward. Would it be good to make the necessary reforms now and mobilise the projects? And then the question of raising the grocery trade from 2000 to 4000: It is a supermarket level, it does not talk about any major trading companies, when we also have obligations in relation to social facilities to do these things forward. Now is not the time for that. You too, Congressman Lindtman, go to supermarkets. You don't necessarily go to hypermarkets, and after that, you don't go to hypermarkets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u26	Mr President! Work is changing and the world is changing, we are indeed from this kind of powerful regulation, from a world of standards through digitalisation to a slightly different world, when you have to make it possible for many things. Such an old social democratic world of overregulation will slowly disappear, and we will move on to a new world. It is good that the government has already dismantled at least 303 standards and more. And this is a very important reform. As Mr Jaskari said, there are almost 3 billion complaints behind various regulations. The ministries also complain about each other's decisions; that is absurd. We must now get Finland on the rise, as it has now begun to rise, and this social democratist thinking no longer moves Finland forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u27	Mr President! As an architect, of course, I am in favour of building. But here we have talked about the right to appeal, and I believe that this amendment to the law only addresses the issue of living, restricts the right to appeal, so the citizens still have the right to appeal. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u28	Mr President! Yes, laws evolve with time, and yes, this change will be permanent. Mr Heinonen here said that there might be a need for further action, I personally agree — that is to say, to facilitate the change in the use of dwellings, to implement the one-stop-shop principle, to issue authorisation procedures, to abandon the minimum size of dwellings, to roll-out planning, to park standards, etc. Yes, there is much more to do here, and as I think has been well said, this law is something that develops over time, and we have to live with it in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u29	Madam President! With regard to these complaint practices: It is not necessarily a question of trying to prevent complaints, but it has often happened that things have been negotiated in a certain way first and... [President MariaLohela : Mr Jaskari,I apologise,I ask you to speak this way,so the voice will appear on the microphone. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u32	Mr President! When you talk about the burst of regulation, you can put two dimensions in it. If we are talking about retail placement and standards, we are talking about supermarkets or hypermarkets, there may be two dimensions. Is it a community structure: is it worth concentrating services, including trade services, so that they are in a good public transport structure, preferably an urban structure that is condensing in rail transport, especially in growth centres? I think it makes sense, it is a sustainable approach. By liberalising construction more, this strength is weakened. The second is the mutual position of entrepreneurs. We are talking about the release of opening hours or others, so it is the case that small entrepreneurs, stone-square traders, stick, discipline and, at the same time, favour large units and their spinners. Yes, there is also this kind of intra-business preference,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u33	Mr President! Now, this government proposal gives municipalities and municipal decision-makers more rights and power to decide the matters of their own municipality. I think that's a good thing. I wonder that the SDP is opposed to this, does not trust municipal decision-makers and municipal officials to be able to draw up the formulas that the municipality needs. A comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is needed, but we all know that it is a long process. I think the previous phase took about nine years, and that is why this government proposal is now important. For example, the City of Helsinki City Planning Agency has said that this reform will bring procedural and substantive facilitations to land use planning and facilitations will speed up the planning processes and promote housing construction. The possibility of a step-by-step drafting of the establishment plan is justified and, consequently, this government proposal is also justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u34	Mr President! I would like to make it very clear that, as we have said in our protest, the objectives of reducing regulation and promoting the conditions for business to invest as quickly as possible are to be welcomed. That's excellent. This is an objective that we support and I want to say clearly here, but the problem is that this government's own proposal actually adds more bureaucracy, more complaints and more decentralisation of the community structure. Petteri Orpo in all the electoral panels speaks warmly for a well-managed community structure, but, in fact, these speeches by the centre people here today are actually revealing the embarrassing fact, Mr Zyskowicz, that you are driving a completely two-wheel drive here. The problem with this proposal is that it decentralises the community structure, increases complaints when the general formula can be used on the basis of a building permit. There would be a need for station patterns and a sensible community structure. This is exactly the opposite of what is said here in Helsinki, for example. Representative Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u35	Madam President! A representative of mine. Lindtman blames the group for driving two wheels. I think the charges came downtown as well. I ask you, Mr Lindtman: do you not drive two wheels or even three? One wheel is that you want more purchasing power for the citizens. We want more of that, too. On the other hand, you want to put a brake on the location of large commercial units, freer decision-making, and hence more effective action, which will inevitably also be reflected...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u39	Mr President! Surely these representatives, who have just spoken here, can ride quite a few strollers. However, in relation to large commercial units and their looser establishment, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, for example, considers that this change weakens the ability of municipalities to direct, if necessary, commercial services within the municipal structure, i.e. this prevents decision-making and does not improve the decision-making of municipalities. On the other hand, it has been interesting to listen here to the fact that the social democrats have been evaluated here, and I say that we are on the side of legality because of the fact that the ely complaints have only been directed at legality, 4% of all complaints. 80% of these complaints have been successful. When it is said here that things stand because of complaints, they are some other complaints, not those about legality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u40	Madam President! I think the other wheel is stuck in the Demares' stroller. It just turns that way non-way all the time, bends, bends that way all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u44	And also representatives of Tolppanen and Hoskonen, and then on the list of speakers. — Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u45	Mr President! Surely the starting point in this matter is that if we are to make a proposal that is illegal, then it should be addressed at that stage, to say that if you do this, then we will complain. It's time to follow the law here. I am amazed in this debate that there are nine years of complaints here. I know they exist. They do exist, but there is no need for law to dismantle such a complaint round. This will require a change of practice. It requires municipal decision-makers to act and it requires civil servants to act, but not the law. We are here to make laws that are easy to follow. Laws that are understood when read in the law book, what it means. And that is also one of the cores of a poodle in this matter. The law must be observed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u46	Madam President! The representative, Pirttilahti, well described the fact that when an Ely Centre official carries out his own personal preferences and believes that it should not be built in the countryside, then he declares that we complain about your permission. These examples
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u51	And now to the list of speakers: Mrs Wallinheimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u52	Mr President! I was certainly not here last week when this good government proposal was at first reading, so I thought I should say a few words. This proposal is precisely a normative proposal, which makes it easier for Finns to live in Finland and improves the operating conditions of Finnish companies. For example, the regulation of large-scale commercial units is facilitated and good. Nevertheless, as I said earlier, there would be a need for far-reaching reform of land use and construction regulation. Good proposals for measures to reduce the price of housing and to streamline planning have been heard from the assembly, the centre and, for example, the Competition and Consumer Authority. There is therefore talk of making it easier to change the use of dwellings, of implementing the one-stop-shop principle, of promising the service of permit processes, of giving up the minimum size of dwellings, of taxiing planning or of flexible parking rules in areas where the use of their own car is not compulsory due to the use of efficient public transport. These proposals should therefore be borne in mind in the context of the planned comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u53	Madam President! I am probably not terribly wrong to say that, before the last parliamentary elections, almost all parties proposed and raised the need for change in various electoral machines as a special need to streamline the planning process, and the second point was the examination of the right of appeal in order to reduce these complaints. Now we are in the process of implementing these shared aspirations of all parties. Perhaps this is not the best proposal, but at least clearly we are moving forward with regard to zoning. I am absolutely convinced that these many areas here, where there is now a clear relaxation, will make life easier in Finland. In my own hometown of Espoo, planning is really slow, rigid. I do not know why, but it is not surprising at all that some planning takes almost five years before it is possible to build there precisely because of the use of these hard and legal complaints and other roads, so I welcome this change and congratulate the government on a good proposal, even though I am in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u55	Madam President! The proposed Government proposal to amend the Land Use and Building Act is an indication that the Government has taken seriously the dismantling work and its progress. The current government has listed more than 303 dismantled standards, of which I read two: the size limit of the large retail unit was doubled, i.e. increased to 4,000 square metres, and a procedure permit is required to install and build solar panels and collectors only when they have a significant impact on the city or the environment. Both of these examples are included in the proposed amendment of the Land Use and Construction Act. In the future, housing, planning and vitality will be one of the most important tasks of the new municipality. That is why we in the centre want to increase the role and decision-making powers of municipal decision-makers on the very important issues that will be in the future in the decision-making power of municipal decision-makers. It is in the interests of all of us to streamline planning and facilitate licensing practices. I will take three examples. The first is the rapid potential for change in the municipal base plan, where there is a general plan in the region, but the general formula does not become obsolete. We will therefore be able to respond much better in the future to the needs of the industry, to the acceleration of housing or even to the faster implementation of transport projects. This will therefore improve the current situation. Another example is the transformation of leisure homes into permanent dwellings. This has been wanted for a long time, and now the municipalities have the opportunity to define these areas themselves, where these leisure homes can be changed to permanent use. There is therefore no need for planning solutions or deviation decisions. We can move much faster. Minister Vehviläinen has launched a proposal on dual municipalism and is currently being examined. I hope that this duality and its potential will also move forward. As a third example, I will take the role of the Ely Centres in the possibilities for planning and complaining. The opposition has expressed wide doubts about the future role of the Ely Centres and has itself complained that this possibility of complaint in municipal planning now goes away. But the role of ely centres must continue to be to do official work and to negotiate ahead with local authorities and decision-makers. This is extremely important work that is being done. But the supervisory tasks and the right to appeal are changing with regard to the Ely Centres, and in my opinion for the better. The Ely Centres will continue to have this right of complaint and control in national and regional terms and matters, but in these important municipal patterns the role will be changed and now in a good direction. I agree with the choir which hopes that the overall reform of the Land Use and Building Law will be carried out in the near future, and I understand that the Minister has already implemented something about it in advance, and we will hear more about it. In the future, planning and construction, authorisation must be made more flexible to meet the needs of residents and residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u57	Madam President! I believe that the reform of the Land Use and Construction Act is one of the most important and best legal projects of this period, which the government has taken forward. The Government's proposal is in good line with the objectives of the Government Programme and this Government's proposal is very welcome. To begin with: We Finns are criticised for the fact that we rarely thank you, but I now make an exception and thank Mrs Myller very warmly for the contributions she has made when she revealed her attitude towards rural development and rural development. We hope that it became known to rural people that Mr Myller is opposed to any form of rural development. He wants a society governed from above to evolve and only one or two agencies to decide how to live in this country. Thank you for bringing this to the attention of everyone, and I hope that this information will spread more generally in the region of North Karelia. I'd say it's even on the front page of tomorrow's Karelian. But forward. Firstly, this reform of the Land Use and Building Act opens up the possibility that the general formula can be used as a basis for building permits in a flexible way. If there is an existing formula, why are we delaying in vain by making planning over zoning, wasting money and, above all, making life difficult for the person who wants to build? It is 100% certain that every home or every summer cottage built in this country is the genuine desire of these people to do so, and it promotes Finland’s construction into a better state and continues to bring new work so that we can live and earn our living in this country. That too should be borne in mind. The conversion of free-time residences into permanent residences is also very much to be welcomed and one of the deepest points of this bill. Very many Finns today dream that when they have time, they will turn their summer home into a permanent home and live there by the lake or by the riverside or by the pond into a happy life for the rest of the leisure time they have worked hard to get. Why would the Finnish Parliament not give it a chance? For example, when Mr Myller listened to what he said, it occurred to me that what is going to go wrong now that such an opportunity is being granted to people. I think it is a very good thing that this is being done. We all know the problem of planning areas. In areas where planning is needed, building close to cities is effectively prevented for decades, which is a completely unfair procedure in view of the fact that land ownership must, after all, be linked to the right to build and develop, for example, a business or a living environment. The fact that the system is being clarified and speeded up now is very much to be welcomed. The planning of the station will be made more flexible, and flexibility in the planning of the station will mean that if you want to change something in a region, it can be done quickly without going through the whole planning process from the beginning and taking years with complaints and all the projects involved. These methods of cutting red tape, which the government is now proposing, are very good and worthy of support. Reducing the role of the Ely Centres in this area and removing the right to appeal is one of the best solutions that can be. I therefore encourage those who are sitting in the middle of the government negotiations now in the near future to take this same message forward so that one day, although during this government, we will find ourselves in a situation where the municipalities genuinely decide to build quickly, flexibly and without such a huge rumble being developed. After all, they cost this society billions of dollars, and that is something that this society simply cannot afford anymore. I hope that we will now proceed to a mid-term debate so that we can find a solution in which construction is really fast and the role of the municipality is clear. Madam President! Finally, when it is pointed out in this debate that someone is supposed to be ruined or that the situation of zoning and urban structure is deteriorating: that is not the case. Of course, municipalities use patterns when designing and making decisions to make the same engineering and architectural offices, good designers, as my municipality of Ilomantsi does. For example, we have often used the services of Jaakko Pöyry's limited company or the services of Microlithics or something else in the kingdom, for example, Ramboll was last involved in a project. Are these bad players? I don't think so. They are excellent experts with skills and skills. So there's nothing to be afraid of, either. Only this kind of ideological fear on the left may be that if anyone should develop, then it must somehow be prevented. And lastly, this solar panel business: It is a great thing that renewable energy and associated structures can now be built smoothly and quickly. If we believe in renewable energy and want to make this world better, then it must be easy to install such equipment, too, so that we do not have to fight for them to the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u58	Madam President! As has already been said on several occasions, this proposal contains a number of different types of amendments aimed at streamlining and reducing the regulation of planning and construction, increasing the possibilities for construction and promoting the operating conditions of the business community and the development of effective competition. This is what the SDP, together with the Left Alliance, has proposed to reject. It is incomprehensible that the demars in particular are opposed, for example, to increasing the decision-making and self-determination of municipalities, as well as to the fact that decisions may increase jobs in municipalities and in sparsely populated areas. For their part, the Greens have tabled a clause in the motion which would, in practice, water down all the flexibility measures. In the opinion of the Finns Party, this is an important and expected reform, which will make many things easier. Business conditions improve, construction speeds up, and municipalities can develop their territory more smoothly. This will help, in particular, sparsely populated areas to develop and become more active in their own regions. That is what the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens are against. In my opinion, this is a clear message for municipalities, rural entrepreneurs and the inhabitants of the sparsely populated area:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u61	Madam Speaker! The amendments to this proposal of the Land Use and Building Act reduce the bureaucracy of planning and construction. It is very important for municipalities, municipal decision-makers, municipal officials to have more decision-making power in terms of land use and construction, because there the municipalities know what the municipalities need. Construction is facilitated not only in the densely built town plan area but also in rural areas covered by the general plan. Here again, cities and rural communities and rural areas must not be set against each other, but both complement each other. The station formula can be changed in the future without prejudice to the outdated general formula and also in stages. This will enable municipalities to react more quickly to the need for construction and to facilitate further construction and changes in the use of buildings and to make better use of local knowledge. I believe that this will have an impact on cities and municipalities as well. The general formula can also be used more widely in the future as a basis for a building permit in a sparsely populated area. The general formula can also be used as a guide for construction in the village area, a very good thing. In the future, the municipality can also provide for areas where leisure accommodation can be converted into a permanent dwelling without an exception or a design solution. We have often discussed this issue in this Chamber, and I understand that there is a great deal of support for changing leisure homes to permanent housing. This is where it's possible. The role of ely centres will also change, and limiting the control of ely centres will reduce the duplication of activities between municipalities and the state, and will contribute to the appropriate allocation of authorities' resources. I believe that this is the essential element in this change in the role of the body. That's the important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u62	Mr President! This is where colleagues mentioned the importance of dismantling red tape and promoting construction in the provinces. We are all of the opinion that exports are very important for Finland. It's raising Finland. Where is the export — it is very much in those provinces. In fact, there is a problem in Finland that the population is now heavily packed in the capital region, when it is on the coast, in Eastern Finland, in Äänekoski, in Lapland that factors and experts are needed, and that is what we must promote if we are to promote exports. There is also more competitiveness in general than in the capital region, where the costs want to escape in terms of people’s housing and production. So the fact that we are promoting Finland's exports means that we must mobilise the whole of Finland's resources, and this, of course, applies particularly to the bioeconomy as well. The centre gathered the government's deregulation proposals, our parliamentary group gathered them together in a notebook, there are 303 of them — more of them. It is now in the vernacular language that these proposals for streamlining the law on land and buildings are all, in my view, well-founded and, on the other hand, that legal security considerations are also taken into account. And when we do so, we will also mobilise investment and safeguard our exports and the balanced development of the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u63	Mr President! There are many positive aspects of this reform, such as the smooth operation of the planning process and the facilitation of further construction and changes in uses. Furthermore, I am also very pleased with what has been mentioned here before that it will make it easier to move to permanent housing. However, there were doubts here and concerns that the location of trade would get out of hand and, in some way, commercial units located in sparsely populated areas would be the wild west in the future. However, current developments have gone in the direction that the shops themselves have favoured the central regions, and in the future it will be the case that large retail entities should be placed primarily in the central regions. It is precisely by reducing the regulatory burden that this reform also seeks to promote competition in trade and to improve the position of consumers, in which case the consumer will ultimately also decide where the trade is located. And it is also good to remember that these largest 4000 square meters of supermarkets, the Cittarit and Prismat, still require the approval of the regional plan outside the central areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u64	Madam President! The paper says today that State Secretary Hetemäki had noticed something that we have already known in Tampere, for example, that growth centres are a brake on development. The gross domestic product of large cities, Helsinki, Tampere and others is lower than that of the rest of Finland, because young people are being flooded into unemployment for housing and income support. All of this growth centres are geared towards population growth, but the mere grynding and the renting of investors using housing subsidies has not created enough national product. Of course, young people need jobs in cities, but it reminds me of whether work should be taken to where people are still in the provinces. The bioeconomy, the industrial boom on the west coast, is crying out for the Finnish workforce, and in this sense the land use and construction law is also a good thing, this change that it also allows to build in the countryside. We must remember this scale, however, that only a few per cent is spoken of when we talk about rural development. And it is also important that it is possible to turn holiday homes into permanent dwellings, especially for people who want to return to their hometowns. And if, indeed, this duality still takes place, then those rural communities will also actually receive tax revenue. But, indeed, this development in Tampere has also been that since 2005 the employment rate has not increased in relation to what people are going to be there, and all the time it is being built and built. It is, of course, a good thing that is being built up, but this equation will not work, because the cost of people living there is too high precisely because of these rents, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u65	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the reform of the Land Use and Building Act will speed up construction in the future and reduce unnecessary permit disputes. In the past, for example, when I was chairing the Kajaani City Council in the negotiations where the Ely Centre and the management of the city's land use and construction discussed that they could jointly plan the future so that there would not be unnecessary complaints, it was always agreed in that way, but the practice was always different the following year: there were complaints of the kind which I think should be dropped in the future. Pre-negotiating should be done in the building permit that should be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u66	Madam President! Unfortunately, when you are a Member of Parliament, you rarely get to say that your own objectives are being fulfilled, but now, as far as this proposal is concerned, you have to say that many of your own objectives have now been declared out loud. After all, this is about streamlining the regulation of construction, and it is quite widely addressed in this proposal precisely in certain areas that have slowed down rural development. As has been pointed out here, this will certainly not increase the volume of construction on a country-wide scale, but it will certainly create those opportunities for living in certain rural communities. Of course, in commercial and commercial construction these changes have positive effects, I believe. This also includes a number of good bureaucratic elements. For example, I would like to raise the issue of the removal of these landscape work permits from these M-marked areas of the formulas, which is precisely a bureaucratic proposal. That is the kind of thing that many forest owners have approached in certain municipalities, particularly, let me say, in the spending limits of regional centres, and it is a very good thing that it is now going through. This is also a way of making construction more flexible in the sense that, now that many municipalities have had delays in drawing up and preparing formulas due to the lack of economic resources, a number of planning processes have been stretched for several years, so it is good that a certain limited possibility of building is now being created on the basis of the general formula. It is also important, at a time like this when economic recovery is taking place, that we should seek all the small ways to achieve new construction and thus boost economic activity through its construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u67	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities to reject the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statements are now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u68	Mr President! I did not get to the first reading, and that is why I am taking a slightly longer floor here at this second reading. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative. The problems raised by the initiative are real, but at the same time, it must be said that the ways in which they are addressed are not entirely in place. A zero-hour contract cannot be denied, for many students, for example, are able to do the right amount of work for themselves in addition to studying. For retired and occasional extra earnings, a zero-hour contract may also be appropriate. These agreements become a problem if you need a full - time job to live and you need a regular income to plan your life forward. The basic principle must always be that the hours of the worker must be sufficient to provide sufficient pay for the job to live. If this is not the case, people must have the right to adequate basic security. Zero-hour contracts cause an increase in poverty, because they contribute to creating incentives traps and pushing people into the use of income support and even make it difficult to pay the subsidy. This is because the whole of real work and the pay it receives and the income needed to live is blurry and often inadequate. It often takes an unreasonable amount of time to get paid for even a small amount of work into an employee’s account. However, food and housing expenditure is daily and constant. Zero-hour contracts do not guarantee any security and predictability in life. They are based on labour market practice, which takes advantage of the fact that the law does not specifically lay down what can be agreed on working time. The relationship between zero-hour contracts and the employment security provided for in the Employment Contracts Act is quite unclear. Those who work under the Zero Hours Agreement are part-time workers, so employers are obliged to offer additional work to them, first and foremost, before further recruitment takes place, but in practice this law does not protect those who work under the Zero Contract. An employee working under a zero-hour contract is often at the mercy of the employer: if you disagree with the employer on a matter, the hours may stop altogether; if you fall ill, hours may stop right away. Some employers keep a number of zero-hour contracts on their lists and offer work on an occasional basis, although it can be demonstrated that the need for an employee is full-time. Zero-hour contracts are therefore also used for the sole purpose of circumventing employment protection in situations where the employer would have regular employment opportunities. Full-time regular work is also done through zero-hour contracts. To sum up, contracts for zero hours are in practice employment without employment security. Such exploitation of workers must be prohibited by law. In the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, everyone felt that the problem was real and particularly affected by young people and women. The problems have been described quite comprehensively in the committee's report. However, the SDP, the Left-wing Union and the Christian people left a different opinion in the committee's opinion, because the committee's report does not clearly state that we need clear legislation to remedy these shortcomings. The report states that matters need to be clarified and evaluated, but it is no longer enough to clarify and evaluate; we now need legislation that protects workers. I believe that Mr Lindström shares this view, and we would have liked the committee's report to have given clear support to this. Now, many things remain open in the report and, moreover, good things are overturned by saying that with the employee's agreement, zero-hour contracts can continue to be concluded. The employee agrees because there is no other job available. Legislation must always be on the weaker side, and this aspect of the committee's report was inadequate. The rules of working life must apply to all employees and all work. There can be no form of employment that is not known in the legislation. However, this is the case with zero-hour contracts. Mr President! In our objection, we are presenting a model that will correct these problems of the present state. I therefore propose that the five statements in this objection be adopted instead of the committee's statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u69	Mr President! The Zero Labour Contract is therefore not defined by law. The agreement can mean a wide range of working time agreements, shared by the broadness and flexibility of working time and working conditions. Zero-labour contracts, temporary work, TT-contract, or, if necessary, relatively new and rapidly more widespread phenomena, which have emerged strongly in public debate, as is usually the case with new phenomena that challenge traditional regulations and practices. Experience-based civil dialogue and engagement are therefore a good starting point for adapting new approaches to legislation. The main objective of the citizens' initiative is to ban zero-hour contracts by means of the Employment Contracts Act. In addition, the initiative proposes that the Working Time Act prohibits the employer-initiative part-time work with a regular working time of less than 18 hours per week. The prohibition would also apply to part-time work based on fixed weekly working hours. In 2014, over 80,000 Finnish employees aged 15 to 64 worked on the so-called zero-hour contract. This was 4 per cent of all wage and salary earners. The most common occupations for those working on a zero-hour contract were the seller, the employee of the care service or health care service, and the service workers. Relative to the number of employees in the industry, the zero-hour contract was the most common in the field of accommodation and nutrition. Zero-hour contracts have been defended in the name of more employment and greater flexibility in the labour market. For some life situations, working with such an agreement may be appropriate, as for young students, for example. However, a large proportion of those working under a zero-job contract feel that they are in a bad position in many ways, when there is no certainty as to the income of the near future, and yet there is always a need to be available for work at short notice. Depending on the zero-hour contracts, the employee’s obligation to receive work may in practice be wider than the employer’s obligation to provide work. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities proposes that Parliament rejects the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative. The committee shares the concern expressed in the citizens' initiative about safeguarding the conditions of employment and the means of subsistence of people working under zero contracts and requires the government to assess the need for further regulation in the preparation of the overall reform of the Working Time Act in order to remedy the shortcomings. In 2011, a framework agreement between the social partners agreed to triangulate the potential need for legislative changes in the irregular working hours of the so-called zero-employment contracts. There was no consensus in the last parliamentary term under the leadership of the former Minister for Labour on solving the problems related to the zero-hour contracts. So that's when it didn't get any closer. Now we are moving forward in cooperation with the social partners. On 15 November 2011, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has set up a working group to clarify the rules of play for zero-hour contracts. The task force is due to complete its work by the end of March, this month. The rejection of the citizens' initiative does not mean that the problems are not solved, but that they have begun to be resolved even before the citizens' initiative enters Parliament. Mr President! I believe that when this working group is able to decide that fair rules of play will be achieved under the leadership of Minister Lindström. I'm sure it's in everyone's interest in today's Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u70	Mr President! In today's Finland, a person who works under a zero-job contract is an outlaw. We know that once in time the standard of working was reasonably full - time and regular employment, we have come a long way from this world. At first there were temporary work, atypical work, various kinds of work, and after restrictions were found on temporary work and fixed-term employment, and clear rules of play began to accumulate in pension, vacations, sick leave, and so on, so our working life ran off to the temporary work market. Since temporary work began to be regulated in such a way as to pay the same wage in accordance with the collective agreement and to raise pension and holiday benefits, we have been born into a group of various forced entrepreneurs and self-employed persons living in the middle of entrepreneurship and paid employment. In addition to this, a group of zero-hour contractees have emerged, which are often marginalized in discussions, as it were, with very few jobs. But actually with zero-hour contracts, there are many times as many people working compared to temporary work, for example, whose problems we talk much more about in society. It is therefore necessary for so-called zero-hour contracts to also be regulated by law. And in fact, when that initiative wants to ban zero-hour contracts and that ban is linked to an 18-hour working day, I think zero-hour contracts should be banned, but we cannot require a minimum working time of 18 hours, because 0 hours of work is not a contract of employment. The employment contract must define the hours worked in such a way that they leave the need for an employer and work. In the case of seasonal work, in the case of high seasons, in the case of a working day at peak peaks, it is understandable that more workers are needed and working hours vary. But it is not necessary that working time varies from 0 to 40, but that this range can be reduced in such a way that it offers the flexibility the employer needs, but at the same time gives the worker security. That is why the Social Democrats have set out a model in which this range is squeezed down and there are certain provisions for consolidation. So if you do more than that range for a certain period of time, then the range should be adjusted either upwards or downwards depending on the needs that go from work to work. With this model, the employee could anticipate his paycheck a little bit. This model would make it easier to create a social security system that is also compatible with a range of employment relationships. It would also remove the problems of pay for sick periods, parental leave, maternity leave and even dismissal, because in zero-hour contracts people are often not laid off, hours are simply taken to zero, and effectively dismissal takes place without the protection of the law that we have in other employment relationships. It was said here that it is good that there are these working groups which are considering the issue of zero-hour contracts. I myself believe that it is good that the Ministry has set up these working groups, and I even believe that unemployment security will become some sort of solution, because the committee also made a clearer position on the need to solve the problems of unemployment security. However, the committee did not take a clear position on the way in which working time is established or the way in which working time is squeezed to be more understandable. And my concern is that the committee, in its line of action, wishes to link this work with the reform of working time legislation. Of course, these laws need to be synchronised with each other, but the mandate of the Working Time Act is completely different — there is no zero contract problem in it. And in fact, there is a great risk that the working groups that the Ministry has set up will, as it were, fall into the working time group and the result will be prolonged. That is why I would have liked us to have required that the working groups now set up to solve the problems of the zero-hour contracts should have done that. The Working Time Act is a large entity, and there, on that scale, a detail in itself may easily be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u71	Mr President! I believe that zero labour contracts should definitely be banned by law. It is now the case that the laws of working life have been made for the protection of the weaker party, i.e. workers, because of a certain degree of security and predictability in working life. This is what zero-labour contracts will dismantle and will dismantle. Zero labour contracts also increase low-wage earnings on an annual basis, increase poverty on an annual basis, which means that wage increases must increasingly be applied for from social welfare, the social side. Then, of course, we will all be paying, and it is all right to remember this in this respect too. Minister Lindström said here, when there was a referral debate, that if we do not have rules on zero-labour contracts, then perhaps it would be necessary to do so, because with the information he has, the law, some kind of legal change. It would be terribly nice to know what the law of Minister Lindström is, what would now have to be done in order to make a zero-labour agreement human in some way if it is not completely abolished. And I would like you to convey a message to the Minister, you who are in favour of a zero-labour agreement, that you should get to know an agreement called the United Nations Agreement. It is usually used in freelance work, and freelance work means that you can have 1 hour or 2 hours or 20 hours or no hours today, but it guarantees you a certain amount of remuneration, summer leave and sickness time. There's a back wall. With such a collective agreement already invented, you might want to take a look at it so that no new bike is invented around this amazing zero. And I still say that no job is worth zero, no employee is worth zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u72	Madam President! When we talk about a zero-labour agreement here in Parliament, we think about how many of us personally know people who work on a zero-labour contract and even against their own will. I think I know we're a minority here in the Chamber. If it were up to me alone, no person would be reluctant to work on a contract that in practice does not guarantee any hours of work. Young people and women in particular work under a zero-job contract. According to Statistics Finland, about one-third of people with zero contracts would like additional hours and more than half of those working part-time. Each one of us may wonder what continued uncertainty and uncertainty about whether pay is enough to live will only affect human everyday activities, let alone getting a loan, getting a rental dwelling and providing day care for children. Many people who work on a zero contract also have to rely on income support. This cannot be an objective in our working life. Certainly none of us are preventing students or, for example, part-time pensioners from acquiring additional earnings, but the means, customs and opportunities must be fair and fair and prepared with more detailed legislation. In the short term, at least for employers, the zero catch is quite affordable, as it directly shifts the risk of entrepreneurship to the employee’s hands. It cannot be right for an employee to have all the obligations relating to an employment relationship but not any rights. Mr President! It is easy to support five statements which are part of the objection 1. We know the problems — now it is no longer enough just to work on the task force and to find out; now we need the political will. The starting point must be that work ensures adequate income for everyone and labour law guarantees security for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u73	Madam President! I believe that, of course, zero agreements can be banned by law, and I would not be sorry at all, even if that is exactly what Mr Filatov described well, which is this state and the problem, and precisely that this zero cannot be an agreement: if you do not buy the labour input, then in a way you cannot create a working relationship. There is a ratio of usability but no special employment relationship at that point. If one does not offer work and the other does work for consideration, then I do not think there is an agreement on work. This sharing of entrepreneurship responsibilities with employees is today both for temporary workers and for many other vague methods that increase the availability of workers in shady borders. The fact that the employee thus assumes entrepreneurship responsibilities also puts entrepreneurs in an unequal position. There are many entrepreneurs who exploit the possibility of making use of the flexibility of this zero agreement in terms of sickness to refrain from paying sick pay and so on, and whether they are said to be better able to deliver results than those companies that work either part-time or full-time contracts. There are different things at that point. But before the time runs out, I support the proposals made by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u74	Mr President! Since it has not yet been made clear in this debate today, I would like briefly to explain why these statements, which in themselves propose a rather difficult way to resolve the zero agreements, have been made. This 18-hour limit does not apply because we have a lot of jobs where the need for work per week is less than 18 hours. As an example, a nightclub is often used, which is only open on Fridays for 8 hours. Then there is no point in requiring an employer to hire a person for 18 hours that week. That is why the committee agreed that the citizens' initiative in its proposed form is unacceptable. The question has also been raised here: why not simply ban zero agreements, and I assume that this is something that the authors of the citizens' initiative have also considered when writing the initiative. Of course, the biggest problem is that such a ban would be very easy to circumvent. That would simply mean that we would have a huge number of contracts that would define the guaranteed working time as one hour a week. In practice, it would in no way solve the real problem of these zeros. Another problem with this is that not all regular work is weekly work. For example, when I was a young mother when I began my career as an alderman, the Tampere Council paid me child care for the days of the meetings when it was not possible to arrange childcare in any other way. The need for treatment was regular and was definitely in the best interest of the carer that the employment relationship was also valid for the time being, but there was no need for treatment every week, even though those days were known months in advance. In such cases, I hope that we will continue to find ways to do so, and that is why these statements will go on to resolve the matter in another way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u75	Madam President! For the second time in this Chamber we are dealing with this zero-labour agreement, and once again it is emphasised that it is absolutely incomprehensible that in such a civilised state and the rule of law as Finland is then such a grey area where an employee can almost be used as a slave without any judicial control whatsoever. The committee's report well states that the main problem of employment law in relation to zero contracts is the employer's ability to stop providing work permanently without a specific decision on the normal employment relationship. Here someone asked if anyone knew or spokespersons knew a person in such a circle. Well, I know a lot of people and have followed these young people how they have the enthusiasm and desire to get to work and take up this building in Finland, but when the work is like it is, in practice, it happens that when there are long periods of work that there are no jobs that have been promised, then the parents will pay for their own pocket whatever it takes to live, rent and others during the intermission. Yes, it is great that this issue has now come to the fore, and Minister Lindström has promised here publicly that he will take care of this matter and has already set up a working group to take it forward. We are all waiting for speed here and we will support him in every way we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u76	Mr President! The difference between the report and the objection is that this report only wants to clarify and evaluate the situation, but this objection has a clear model of what needs to be corrected and how, if we want to guarantee people basic security and at least some sort of predictability for life. This model of objection does not prohibit the variation of working time if it is necessary due to seasonal fluctuations or fluctuations in demand, but does address obvious abuses. We want to bring predictability to the shifts and to secure the payment of sickness and parental leave pay and the provision of unemployment benefit even when hours of work are running out or low. In future, we will require real working time to be recorded in the employment contract. The working time range shall not be used to circumvent the worker's protection from dismissal, lay-off or part-time work. In addition, we require an amendment to the co-operation law so that the employer must monitor the number of employees and the basis of employment relationships with varying working hours, as well as twice a year the number of workers with varying working hours and on what basis. This model could indeed eliminate these abuses and remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u77	Madam President! The main importance of this citizens' initiative is certainly that it has brought to a broad political debate the incomprehensible situation that we have in 2017 such situations and groups of employees who have to make such a difficult effort when talking about atypical employment, talking about temporary workers, talking about those who, if necessary, are invited to work or talking about those who have entered into zero contracts. I can’t help but think — I’ve said it before in this Chamber — when Veikko Lavi used to sing a song about Taavi in Takarivi. That song told about the port of Kotka, where people were invited to work, if necessary, waiting for a possible job, and Taavi in Takarivi was there in the back row, and he never got the turn when the bosses in the morning chose who would be able to unload or load the ships. It is inconceivable that today there are still similar problems and that workers who seek to sell their own workforce and obtain reasonable compensation for it and who should be protected from it are faced with such situations. That is why I understand that the committee has carefully considered this and has come to the conclusion that this zero treaty cannot be outlawed by law, but has nevertheless given clear instructions on how to proceed. This objection and the efforts in it give it a clear will, and that is why it is easy to support this objection and the efforts contained in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u78	Mr President! There must be the courage to ban the zero agreements, and there must be the courage once and for all. The world has changed, and now it's worth finding out a little bit about it. We do indeed have these temporary agency companies, including these StaffPoints and similar ones, which also bring an employee to that nightclub for four hours a night — there is no need for a zero-work contract for that purpose. Today, by the way, these temporary agency companies are monitoring compliance with existing agreements for workers who have passed through them. They will not receive wages under contracts, but will also have these benefits monitored there. Last season, we worked pretty hard to get a model of these rental business things. This is one of the reasons why it is good that students have an employment contract when students study that students can then work. There is no need for a zero-labour contract. It requires a telephone for the employer and the student. It requires personal contact with the employer to know who to call when you need to and ask if you can come. Then perhaps you can agree in advance that I will be there next Wednesday and then I will be there on Monday. It is not a job contract; for students, the bigger problem is that students have a salary ceiling in this country, which is terribly small. It's just over 600 euros a month. If you earn more than that, then you leave the study-social benefits, and if you want to make enough money not to need study-social benefits, it is not possible to study because you have to work full-time. But that amazing willow rope is fed to young people that you need a zero contract so you can work. No, it's okay. You need a job contract when you work when you go to a job. And then, hopefully, at some point, this Chamber will realise that there is still a need for a tripartite approach and collective agreements, so that there are common rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u79	Mr President! Even in my own circle, there are these people who work for the Zero Pact. I've been following a young man who waited two years before he got his permanent place. It was a real shame that he could never make any advance plans when he waited for that phone call, so that there were problems and major shortcomings. But like a representative Mr Mäkipää said, the working group has now been appointed to resolve these problems and Minister Lindström has said that these shortcomings will be addressed and fair rules will then be introduced. During the previous term of government, things were discussed and now these issues, which are problems, are being taken up. Generally speaking, when a citizens' initiative comes to Parliament, there is always a concern behind the citizens' initiative, which must be taken seriously, the citizens' initiative will handle it well and take that signal seriously. Even if it doesn't go through here, I'm sure we'll talk about it and get into trouble. It is good that citizens' initiatives are being taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u80	Madam President! It has to be said that, in committee, we had a very good debate on this and we heard a lot of experts and the spirit was good there and the effort was common, but then it became clear at the very end that the representatives of the government parties were not prepared to take this proposal to the law. However, the law is the only thing that can really correct this situation. We considered that the report did not adequately describe the measures needed, and we also considered that the 5th statement of the report in practice accepted the status of the current zero-labour agreement. That is why the Christian Democrats, too, went along with this protest by the Social Democrats, because it is the only way to really correct this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u81	Mr President! This was very descriptive of Taavi in Takarivi, who, as it were, waited for the job but never received and was available as a labour force but did not reach the job. Today, in fact, these zero-hour contracts have partly become like this like a buffer, which is full of back row taves or front row ewes, no matter how. I would like to repeat what Mr Paatero said in the last debate because I thought it was very descriptive. We often talk about flexibility in working time in order to have more work, and all work is better, one hour of work is better than no work at all, but these zero-hour contracts, the fact that zero is possible, have the problem of making a promise of work that will never be fulfilled. At the time it was a young summer worker who got a summer job, but when the summer was rainy, there was never a working hour at the ice cream stand. When a person, a young person, commits to a zero - hour contract, he thinks he can get a job and he may not seek another job because he imagines that he has a contract of employment that gives him hours of work. Therefore, a zero-hour contract can be even less work than it is sometimes a somewhat more bureaucratic and regulated job contract, since these nightclubs and others can be awarded a four-hour contract. There is no need to conclude a 0-40 hour contract.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u82	Madam President! There has also been much talk of local agreement in this Chamber, especially during this parliamentary term. I myself have felt that local reconciliation is almost a blissful part of the world of work when one has listened to these debates in this Chamber. I find it difficult to promote this local agreement to deal with the problems of zero-job contracts as well. Local agreement requires that the parties to the agreement should at least be on a relatively equal footing with each other, and it is very rare for those who work under a zero-job contract to do so. An employee seeking his own rights is easily labeled as a difficult worker, and hours of work fall to zero, at least thereafter. This situation is further exacerbated by the fact that when a worker resigns, he or she may receive a qualifying amount from the TE Office, even if he or she was not offered working hours. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that there are also situations for people who work for these zero-employers that the company, the company in which they enter into a contract of employment or a contract of employment with a zero-worker, may even deny that they are allowed to take employment from any other company or other employer. This is often forgotten in these discussions. But then, Madam President, to the very end, when we talk about basic human security and livelihood, it is important to leave it from the weakest point of view. I personally feel strongly that fair rules in working life are also an integral part of basic human security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u83	Madam President! It is particularly important to note that the citizens' initiative did reflect on this problem, in what forms these zero agreements should be banned, and it did not consider it impossible to do less than 18 weeks' work. Yes, the bill made it clear that the employee, with his or her consent, can do less than 18 hours per week. It was stressed that for students this is possible that they do less than 18 hours a week. However, it was stressed in the citizens' initiative that an employee who, for his own reasons, has accepted an agreement containing less than 18 weekly hours may, hereafter, declare that this agreement will be dissolved on his behalf in so far as further work is to be provided, is there under an obligation to provide additional work, which should bind employers — which, unfortunately, has not worked as an article in the Employment Contracts Act, and therefore has little faith in it at the moment. Fortunately, the Court has now also found solutions in which the employer has been found guilty of an infringement of the obligation to provide additional work. But this was taken into account in that agreement and in the citizens' initiative for less than 18 hours. In this Chamber, we cannot ignore the fact that, in the opinion of the initiativeers, this was not possible, as long as it is for the employee's own legitimate reasons, whether he is a pensioner, a family member, a student or another reason why, according to his own life situation, he wants to do only a few hours a week. But this problem is precisely what is described here that when it zero is nothing. Certainly, in these hearings, the committee also pointed out the fact that there are trade workers who want to keep, even if there are no hours or hours in the week at very random, but it is considered a benefit of being among those staff discounts. Of course, it is a small lure, but, in any case, for students of some chains, they are their own help in running everyday life. But, as has been said, these proposals from the Social Democrats — the Left Alliance and the Christian Group — are very well-founded and well-structured and can really address this very bad issue, because I still believe that legislation can ban zero agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u84	Mr President! Sourdough, said the fox about the locust berries. Far away has this hall’s knowledge of today’s working life and the working life of today’s people escaped. Serious even on the left is said that an employee who does not want to take, or an employee who wants to do less, or an employee who does not want to do the work that has been offered. It is not the employee’s responsibility, but the employer’s. It depends on what work is available and how much work is available. If you want to work part-time because of your life situation, it is good to apply for part-time work, but there is no need for a zero-work contract. You don't have to do that. You don't need 18-hour time limits. It must be remembered that when we talk about 18 hours, then we also talk about working conditions. It is much bigger if we start setting time limits of this kind. And if we start recording such things as minimum working time in the law and when in this country with these lunches, what is currently there, these will want to become those majority laws, then from 18 hours very easily begin to twist these things into a general system, which then makes people do in a shorter time the same amount of work that has been in the past. With regard to the Minister's statement here, I would remind you that he said in this Chamber that 'if we do not currently have any rules of the game in zero contracts' — 'if we do not have, please tell the Minister that we do not have — 'at least with this experience, it is very difficult for me to see how they would come without legislation'. Is it possible that one of the members of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities will be able to tell us what the legislation is that the Minister has thought about when, at least not for me now, it has not opened up to me in this Chamber what kind of legislation he would like to introduce? I really hope that, as this working group continues to work, there will be real experts in working life who are familiar with the agreements and know what it is to live in less than 18 hours and what it is to live in a zero-job contract. I'm afraid there are people like that. The worst part of zero is that it can also clean a person out of work. That is also true of what has been said here, that they are being made workers of the old port, that they are then being called on to work. This is what this world has gone to, including, of course, rental companies and others, that who is assigned to what work at any time. There is a shortage of jobs in this country. The government has said that we have an increase in employment, but it has not. We officially have 350,000 unemployed. The right figure is over 500,000, more than half a million people, namely people in labour policy measures are not in force for the time being, not even in fixed-term, not even temporary, not even part-time employment, but in labour policy measures, and they are then unemployed and are able to live on unemployment allowance. This is something to remember. Also, when we talk about this zero-job contract, we must remember that even if students want to work shorter hours or someone wants to work shorter hours, most of them have to work full-time to support their families, and the majority of employees in the labour market really want to work full-time while working.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u85	Madam President! I must say to Mr Tolppas that I am not going to be provoked because he uses false words and false terms. I was talking about the fact that there are workers who, because of their own situation in life, choose shorter working hours. And it is true that this 18-hour working limit came from the fact that it is the limit of the working conditions, which will then enable the worker to be able to be covered by earnings-related daily allowance when unemployment occurs, and thus to provide some kind of security. That was the 18-hour limit. It is important that we talk in this Chamber, but then we talk about Taave in the back seat or not, and this situation in the labour market at the moment calls for left-wing corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u86	It is true that some workers and some people want to work shorter hours. That is perfectly clear. It always fits in with the life situation at hand, for example when there are young children and possibly when someone in the family gets sick or possibly is studying or something else. It's perfectly understandable. But whether there really is a need for a zero-labour agreement is the big question here, and I think that is what we should be thinking about and communicating to the Minister for Labour that we should look at different solutions now, because this zero-labour agreement means that no one can control — when there is nothing to monitor. If there is no work to do, then there is no work safety, there is no holiday time, there is no pay, there is no sickness pay if there is no basis. There must be that basis, and a zero-job contract does not bring an agreement, it does not bring a real job contract. It does not bring work, and then, especially if it is misused, it is used to subjugate
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u87	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen asked these working groups whether it came up in committee, and now I am, in a way, responding from that point of view. So one of these working groups deals with unemployment security problems, and I have the impression that it is possible to find quite reasonable solutions and that working group work was well advanced. On the other hand, the second assumes that, when assessing the possible need for legislative changes, account must be taken of the balance between the rights and obligations of both parties in the contractual relationship and of the rules of play applicable to clarity. The purpose of this working group is to seek the balance that the worker should have something reasonable, and the idea behind it is, for example, to lay off and pay sick hours and this type of thing. But this task force's mandate says that if the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on the citizens' initiative on zero-job contracts is produced during the work of the working group, the content of the report must be taken into account in the preparation, and the problem is that we would have had a place of $1,000 to instruct this working party from the Parliament, but the committee did not use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u88	Mr President! I am well aware that when the citizens' initiative talks about a zero-hour agreement and about banning it, it is certainly not for any worker that the long-term objective is to have this type of employment. Of course, there are also students and others who think this is actually good, but I think, basically, that if we are going to ban this zero-hour agreement and such flexibility in the labour market, even if there might be an advantage for some worker, then a much greater disadvantage would be if we were to leave the labour market in a sense. Many entrepreneurs start from the fact that perhaps this kind of flexible agreement enters and then it changes the nature of the contract. [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u92	Mr President! Everyone admits the problems, but if they really want to fix them, that's another thing. In support of Minister Lindström and the working group he set up, it would have been particularly good if the committee's report had taken a stronger position on this issue. This is now the committee's report 5. In fact, the statement repeals all the amendments and points raised earlier in the report, and that is exactly what the authors of the protest were unable to accept, because this 5th statement states that current practice would continue to be possible if both parties agreed to do so. Here it is, the problem that the employee agrees to make this kind of contract, if there is nothing else available, i.e. this problem actually culminates. Legislation must always safeguard the rights of the disadvantaged, in this case the rights of the worker. Now the zero-hour contract has no legal security, and these contracts are therefore employment relationships without employment security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u94	Mr President! In order to avoid any confusion — because I referred in my previous speech to the fact that I understand that neither the committee nor the opposition committee have seen the possibility of moving forward directly as the citizens' initiative proposes — I agree with that, but I also believe that it is not, and is by no means acceptable, an offer of zero. If the employer wants more flexibility and wants to go from zero to even further, then that flexibility is quite great if the employer is able to choose whether to give the job zero or give it one hour or two hours. The requirement for flexibility should also have some limits in Finnish working life, including on the employers' side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u95	Mr President! When I have listened to these debates, I think that it is not a very good idea for anyone to be acclaimed about these things. Everyone would have had the time and place to do it. But it is good to have this kind of constructive discussion, and when it is known that in 2014: there were already more than 80,000 zero-job contracts, then why didn't they get involved and do things like this, as has now been said here? I still believe that these things are also being done with the social partners, as everyone knows. I am not very familiar with employment contracts and these matters, but I understand that no one lives on that one or two hours a week. But, as the citizens' initiative says, the Working Time Act would prohibit an employer-initiative part-time job of less than 18 hours, so here, when this... — Or no paper has been brought here, that it will come in its time, that it will have to agree with the employer and the employee and then leave. And good employers, especially small businesses, will certainly agree with their employees, which may be appropriate to the situation of whether it is, for example, 5 or 10 hours a week. There's not much point in hacking wood into anything here, there's never been anything here before. But now at least it seems that there would be such a dazzling will that there would be a desire to move forward with this zero-hour agreement, and I believe that when time passes, at least there will be a better solution than has been the case so far. It is in the interests of all of us, both employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u96	Madam President! I always try to refrain from drawing history to this day, but yes last season was indeed attempted, with representative Jukka Kärnä it was just this kind of bill, and most gratifyingly, it was signed by the party president of the Finns, Timo Soini, and current Minister Jari Lindström. In that sense, I believe that the Minister has had a genuine will — when he has gone on these missions — to see something happen. And as the chairman of the committee said here, perhaps there will be, hopefully, such human steps, such that for a person who has not been offered a job, and who resigns from that employment relationship, there will be an unreasonable penalty, that is, a lot of weeks of toughness that he has been separated from a job without a job. In this regard, as regards the lack of work in Finland, without moralising those who work overtime, because they are usually young people with housing debts, according to one calculation, which was reported yesterday, Finland is currently working overtime to the extent that it corresponds to the full-time work of 300,000 people. [Department :Actually! ] The same must be said that if we start to think about all of these things, there will be plenty of thought breaks in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u97	Mr President! I think, too, that if you make a zero deal like this — that certainly does not mean that you always have zero, but it varies then — then we have a lot of areas where there may be some weeks of work, other weeks not, and that's fine. That is why I think that this idea, as is the case with this citizens' initiative, that it should be at least 18 hours a week is now quite unreasonable. But if you make such an agreement, at the initiative of your employer or together, those contracts are concluded, then yes you must have fair rules of play on both sides. In my opinion, the worker must then have the right to hold a second contract of employment alongside him and to leave without any notice from such an agreement that does not offer hours. There is also a need to change the regulations in some way so that it does not become a problem. I believe that fair play, but flexibility for it, because it is, however, the case that, in reality, when it comes to small businesses, they do not necessarily have to offer half-days at a time — this 18 hours would mean almost half-day. It is good that there are mechanisms that can take people in and gradually get them through more factors, including increased sales and more work, and they can become full-time. I guess we need to think about the rules of the game. However, the rules of the game cannot be such as to prohibit flexible practices of this kind, but rather to consider that the rights of the worker will then be reasonably realised there, that they will not, under any circumstances, be held hostage and that they will not be unduly affected by such an agreement. However, as I said earlier, I welcome this committee's proposal to reject this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u98	Mr President! Indeed, during the last parliamentary term, a comprehensive labour law survey was carried out on what these zero-hour contracts are and what problems they pose. It was actually the first proper study, because this phenomenon is also relatively new in Finnish society. We have always had flexible working hours, and that is not a new phenomenon. But going from 0 to 40 is a reasonably new phenomenon. Actually, this zero is the problem. Representative Salmon speaks beautifully about how the need for work arises, which means that working time varies. But when we know that we have a very large number of companies in which full-time work is actually done for a long time, it has been done very regularly, and then suddenly the hours go to the zero that is the dramatic solution, then the person may actually get laid off or then it may be that the face does not like and the employer thinks that let’s put the guy on hold for a while, then perhaps the next minute will be a little more flexible and more pleasant. And that's why that zero is the problem. That zero should be banned, not flexible working hours. And zero hours may be a week, as long as there are some hours to work within a month. In other words, we can start from longer periods when working time is flexible. And we already have agreements like this. For example, PAM’s contracts are very long-term and very flexible, but they do not seem sufficient either. It must then be said that there is also the possibility of obvious abuse here, and it should be possible to ban it and to find a solution to these problems, whether they relate to the benefits that the worker receives on an occupational basis, if he is on sick leave or parental leave or the like.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u99	Mr President! I would add to that recent speaker, Mrs Lohe, that what is unfortunate about this zero — if there is that zero — is that it allows, for example, that if a child becomes ill, there will be measles, and then the mother will call that I cannot come to work now because the child became ill, so if she has a zero-job contract, then the employer will be able to tell you from the moment that, well, don't worry, I don't have a job for you today, which then treats the sick child without pay. Or if a person falls ill himself, then there is no contract when it does not oblige. It does not oblige you to pay what you have had before, because that zero is always in use, and that is the problem here. There must have been especially those who have been through rental companies, have worked for an hour or two hours, then it has been added to three hours and thus, and then it has become a full-time job. But it is essential that it should not be allowed to visit there at zero. It's in everyone's best interest. And that 18 hours: so much has been said here that perhaps it is also so that at some point we should see if it could move and be flexible in some way, so that the condition of working then... — — — — But these things are not worth it now, we are talking about this zero. Much needs to be done in labour law, but let us stick to zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u100	Mr President! I understand that there may be employers who, in a certain way, abuse existing regulations. But at the same time it is good to remember that the vast majority of employers and entrepreneurs actually feel that they are on the same side of the table as employees. They are the same group, and the main resource of its company is precisely that staff and its competence. Indeed, many companies today are in a situation where they are short of skilled labour and not so much in a state of will that how to reduce the hours worked, but how to get a skilled workforce to do the work. It must also be remembered that no employee is obliged to go along with such an agreement. A contract of employment is an agreement concluded by both parties, and on the other hand it is one thing to make our social security system take account of all kinds of flexible working life situations, rather than to ban flexible agreements. It'd be kind of weird to take a job for an hour or two if you don't have a job. In my opinion, we need flexible elements, we need more local integration into working life, but there must be fair rules on both sides so that employees can also operate more freely. If they do not have those hours, another job will be taken alongside them and it cannot then be denied, or a job can be changed immediately if it does not happen for those hours. But what is essential is to remember that almost all employers today are struggling to get a skilled workforce and value the workforce. There's a small part of the crowd that doesn't work like this, and it's not just for their sake that it's worth prying our system.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u101	Mr President! Because we have employers who do wrong — fortunately, I agree with them, as a minority — in any case, legislation must safeguard the rights of the weaker. And yes, in fact, even in committee hearings and during this process, when this citizens' initiative, names, has been collected, it is quite often heard of abuses also by employers. For example, on these, as Mr Filatov also said, if you disagreed with the employer and there were a lot of hours worked before that, then suddenly the hours are over. Or if you get sick, hours of work may end right away and then there will be no more hours of work. It is true that some employers have several zero-hour contracts on their lists and then always offer a few hours a little, depending on when it feels like, even though it can be demonstrated that there is a need for a full-time worker at the workplace. In fact, experts also told us in that committee that zero-hour contracts are also used for the sole purpose of circumventing employment security. In other words, you do not want to take full-time employees, but the employer thinks that you can get easier and get around these obligations when you use these zero-hour contracts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u102	Mr President! When it was discussed that it was necessary to accept this type of employment relationship, it actually is — at the risk of losing unemployment benefit. If there is part-time work with an established part-time working time, then we have provisions in the unemployment security legislation that tell us that if the salary obtained from work is lower than the unemployment benefit, then there is an opportunity to refuse such work. In the same way, there are certain grounds for resigning from work without giving rise to a degree of severity. But the problem with zero-hour contracts is that they are interpreted as an employment relationship, a permanent employment relationship, and if, for example, you resign from such work, even if hours are zero, you may lose your unemployment benefit in the same way as if you resigned from a job which is eight hours a day and five days a week. This is the problem. At the moment, our legislation actually imposes more on this type of employment than on part-time employment, for example, and that is why we need to reform the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u103	Mr President! I think that Mr Filatov has made a good speech on the fact that there are problems with this. But those problems are not that we have such zero-hour contracts, but that our unemployment security and social security systems are not coordinated with this. I think that the correct conclusion is that we are not denying this type of agreement, as the committee is proposing, but we are making changes to other legislation — the legislation on unemployment security, social security — in order to make it more flexible to take account of this fact that, if there is an agreement of this kind, there would not be any distress with it. There is nothing to prevent, if this kind of contract is that at the same time applying for a different type of work as well. However, in this Chamber, I believe that the most important and the most important task for the government over the next two years is to further strengthen the positive development of the economy so that new jobs are created in Finland. When there is demand for labour, there will also be competition for who is able to offer the best working conditions. This seems to me to be the best guarantee of unemployment. It's not like we're gonna start making so many limits on that job that no one's gonna dare hire anybody.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u104	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-28-ps-30.u105	Mr President! There has already been talk today of deregulation in connection with the amendment of the Land Use and Building Law. As the debate has shown, legislation has already been streamlined in many respects during this parliamentary term, as has also been promised by many parties and government parties in particular, and that is a good thing. The proposal to amend Article 25 of the Competition Act will therefore continue to do the same good work to reduce red tape. This proposal is easy to justify because, as the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs states, the provision of Article 25 of the Competition Act on acquisitions in the electricity market has hardly ever been applied in practice, so the article is virtually unnecessary. The committee therefore considers that this provision has become obsolete in practice because the regulation and environment of the electricity market have changed significantly over the years. More generally, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also believes that the deregulation of unnecessary regulation should continue. Mr President! It is very easy to agree with this view of the committee and finally to thank the government and Parliament for their efforts to reduce unnecessary regulation.
