ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. And this Question Time is now being carried out as a free Question Time, i.e. without any specific group questions. Representatives can therefore put questions to one of the responsible ministers present on-the-spot on the subjects they consider to be the best. And the ministers have already moved to the Council of Ministers. So I now ask all those representatives who want to ask a question to sign up by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u2	First question, Mr Skinner.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u3	Mr President! Finland has turned 100 years old and we have been working for 100 years to increase and increase the reputation of Finland and Finland brand. Names like Fazer, Paulig and Hartwall have done a great job. In time, Nokia did a great job on mobile phones. So is Finnair. In other words, we have internationally known brands, but we are on our way back from Sweden, for example. At the same time, it is a question of export income and the financing of the welfare society as a whole. At the same time, consumer brands create a landscape around the world. Has the Government paid attention to the construction and development of Finnish brands in connection with the preparation of the new Business Finland? Could we do this work together between the government and the opposition, so that in the next hundred years we will be better than Sweden in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u4	Madam President! Mr Skinner raises a very important issue: the branding of land and, of course, the branding of products. First of all, we must thank the Finnish 100 operators. Finland has received an enormous amount of good international image, which is helping to promote brand development in both Finland and Finnish products. The representative referred to Business Finland, which is to say that Tekes and Finpro will be put together. One part of this will of course be raising the Finnish brand, because now the ambassadors will be country leaders in this Business Finland: in every country where the embassy is, there will be country leaders. Of course, they have a key role to play in building the Finnish brand, but on the other hand, we all have a duty and a role to play in building and branding the image of Finland, both in the opposition and in our government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u5	Next question, Congressman Eloranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u6	Mr President! We have been proud in Finland that the family background — parents’ incomes or education — has not mattered how well schoolchildren are doing. The situation has changed since the Pisa results have for the first time highlighted the socio-economic effects of family background on learning outcomes. There are now also regional differences in learning. Schoolchildren in cities are better off than in rural areas, Uusimaa is better off than in Western Finland. It appears that only stronger municipalities will be able to invest enough in education in the context of a tightening economy. Inequality between children and municipalities has also become tangible in early childhood education since you restricted subjective day care rights and raised group sizes. Some municipalities have implemented these weakenings and others have not. Minister, what are you going to do to stop this development of educational inequality? And the answer now is not that you have invested in the equality money for schools, because you have cut it considerably since last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u7	Mr President! At the heart of the development of the Finnish education system is ensuring equality of opportunity. And it is in fact at the heart of the whole 100-year story of Finland — that regardless of background and place of residence, children receive high-quality education and equal opportunities to move forward in life. And these rock legs in training we want to strengthen. Comparisons of learning outcomes have shown that in Finland, the education system is still one of the most equals in the world, but we take those weaknesses very seriously, as we see in terms of equality, for example, in strengthening the impact of socio-economic background through learning differences. And in this connection we have a number of new measures: New curricula are the most important, equality funding for next year has doubled compared to the previous one — and it is historically high, has not been before
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u8	And also during this Question Time, both questions and answers are one minute longer. I ask you to respect that time, because those minutes are equally valuable to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u9	Next question, Congressman Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u10	Mr President! One great source of inequality is that we have nearly 70,000 young or young adults who are not in education, are not at work and are poorly attached to society. They were recently asked by the Youth Research Society, and their big message is: lower educational thresholds, job opportunities for them too. But it also turned out that the great causes of their exclusion are the lack of friends, loneliness, mental health problems, discrimination and lack of faith in the future. I would like, and I would suggest that some measures should be taken quickly for this target group so that these people can be caught up in society, work and education as equal citizens in Finland, which has turned 100.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u11	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mr Ihalainen for the valuable question. The government is working hard to eradicate the social exclusion of young people, to have an early impact and to secure a good start for everyone on the educational path and on the way forward. One aspect of this influence on loneliness is the possibility of engaging in hobbies. In other words, the government has set the goal that every child and young person should have access to at least one pleasant hobby, and it requires us to act extensively in society, both in the state and in the municipalities. The third sector players — sports organisations, clubs and cultural players — play a very important role and, of course, families will be involved in this work. We strive, among other things, to make farm use more efficient, to have a low-threshold hobby in the afternoons of schools, to support clubs to reduce the costs of hobbies in the future, and to make them accessible to every child and young person through various measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u12	Next question, Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u13	Mr President! Almost every industry is dominated by large international companies. Competition is fierce and the chances of success for smaller local companies are very limited when the market is dominated by large competitors. When looking at Finland, the music industry is an example of such a situation. Small Finnish record companies are in distress when practically three multinational records run business and others share the crumbs. However, small and medium-sized enterprises are very important to our society by employing a large number of Finns and paying their taxes to Finland. I ask the minister concerned: how will the State ensure that domestic SMEs remain competitive in markets dominated by large players with strong market power and economies of scale? So it's like a music baby or something like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u14	Mr President! The question at least partly falls within my sphere of competence, so I will answer in that respect. — The point raised by the questioner is very important in that, if we want a living cultural life, it also requires that private sector entrepreneurs, for example small music entrepreneurs, who are probably familiar with the questioner, can continue to operate and also receive their copyright fees in good order. This calls for international cooperation, where, of course, the key player at European level is the EU, which has promoted the development of a digital single market during this EU election period, and an important part of it is precisely the development of copyright regulation at European level, so that everyone gets the good part of the revenue stream that they deserve, which moves when, for example, different online services are listened to or are viewed as audiovisual material, which is now very common. In other words, there is constant action at both national and EU level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u15	Next up, Mr Toivola.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u16	Madam President! Sadly, there is still a great deal of fear and shame about mental health problems: fear of stigmatisation and being left out, worry that even if you ask for help, you will not be heard. No one should have to hide or cover up his own story, carrying shame because his own powers are exhausted. It is also important to take forward the message that mental health problems can be overcome and the fall can also become a powerful and wisdom-giving phase of life and that it is possible to return to work or to study. Mental health problems are often long lasting because the care provided by society is inadequate. Access to treatment, the content and duration of treatment continue to be uneven. There is also a need for more individual support for working life and returning to studies. Mr President! How does the government intend to support the good treatment of mental health problems and the return of mental health rehabilitation workers to work, study and inclusion in society?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u17	Mr President! The issue is wide and important for Finland's public health and the welfare of the people as a whole. A few withdrawals in response to a broad theme. I'll start with the kids and the kids. Their mental health problem is something we might call a new public health challenge. A quarter of a billion of our common funds are spent annually on psychiatric services for children and young people. Even before this, it would be very valuable for us to be able to invest in the methods of parental support, and I believe that with regard to the decision taken by Parliament on the occasion of the celebration, the funding of Itla, there can also be one theme for this whole set of mental health that is being addressed in relation to children and young people. It will remain under consideration by the Foundation. The second dimension, which concerns people of all ages who are struggling with mental health, is mental health legislation, which is part of the government's reform programme. There are thus new articles in the preparation to guarantee mental health services. And as far as the rehabilitation section is concerned, it is mainly the responsibility of Minister Mattila, but I would like to point out the key project: a better way for people with part-time working skills to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u18	Next, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u19	Madam President! I will continue with the important question of how to tackle the displacement of children and young people. The fact that loneliness is one of the biggest issues has rightly arisen. When children are younger, they are already excluded from leisure activities. For example, when studying exercise, about 30 percent of families report that the fees for hobbies are so high that children cannot participate. It cannot be that our children do not have the right to engage simply because the fees are so high. Madam President! During the reign of Katainen, the administration of physical activity was cut off and money directed directly to the grassroots level in the form of follow-up support. Now it was said here that we want to encourage clubs and reduce costs through the hobby moon — but you have cut the social support. It was raised from less than 2 million to 5 million, and you have cut it to 4 million. Minister Terho, you have all the power to decide on the winnings. Can you promise me that you will raise this amount first from 4 to 5 million already next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u20	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for this important question. We really do have a hobby guarantee, which works very much in cooperation with the municipalities, but also as a concrete forward-looking project, which is going on in my ministry, I have launched such a hobby passport project: a young person, for example, by acquiring some kind of application, should go to the leisure resorts that work as partners, often even in sports facilities, really free of charge, and some times, several times, to take advantage of these services, so that, regardless of wealth, you can get to the taste and start of the hobby. I will not make concrete financial promises about this outright, but I will do everything in my power to give young people the widest possible opportunity to engage in whatever wealth they may have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u21	Next up, Congressman Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u22	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Vi har mycket att reserve över i vårt Hundraåriga land, bland you provide TVåspråkigheten. När språklagen gjordes kom man också överens om att det ska ges en språkberättelse till ricksdage vart fjärde år.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u23	Mr President! This is a good question for the current billboard. The preparation of the Language Report is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, where the implementation of rights is examined in a very thorough and comprehensive manner. The work is now in its final stages, and it'll be here any minute, so worry about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u24	Next, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u25	Mr President! Israel has bought its land with its blood in a war of independence that was declared by the neighbouring countries, started a war, and since then Israel has been in several defence wars. The Arabs have 21 states with their capitals, natural wealth and oil, and the Jews have only one country with a surface area of 1% of Arab territory. Jerusalem has never been the capital of any nation other than Israel. It became the capital of Israel 3,000 years ago. US President Trump wants to transfer the US Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem and at the same time recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. I ask: How is the Finnish Government prepared for this changed situation? Would it be possible to think that Finland is also joining this line?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u26	Minister Soini is not here, but is Prime Minister Sipilä responding?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u27	Mr President! This is indeed a very topical issue at a time when the United States made a decision that was pictured there by the representative. The Finnish line here is unchangeable, which means that Finland assumes that we will seek a permanent solution from two countries in the region. This also remains the starting point for Finland. We have also come to the public with this view. This is also a very unanimous starting point for the European Union to resolve this situation, which has been going on for a long time and is a difficult issue in that region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u28	Next up, Congressman Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u29	Mr President! More than a week ago, the EU Commission published a communication entitled "The Future of Food and Agriculture". This paper is the starting point for the planning of the common agricultural policy for the future EU fund period. Among other things, there is a strong talk of raising the interest of new farmers. To become an agricultural entrepreneur represents a high risk, with high investment and uncertain incomes. For example, compensation for natural handicaps is absolutely necessary for a Finnish farmer. Minister, how do you assess the potential of a Finnish farmer in the future in the light of a recent communication?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u30	Madam Speaker! Indeed, last Wednesday the Commission's communication on CAP guidelines follows quite well the ideas that Finland has had, a Finnish farmer has had, the whole Finnish food sector has had on the development of the common agricultural policy. There are a few points I would like to raise: One is that now only a frame, a European frame, would be created and followed by the Member States. This has also been proposed by Finland. It's a strategic grip. The second is to improve the market and market orientation mentioned by the questioner. The third is young farmers. To pay particular attention to this, so that we can get new, young, fresh farmers to continue and take forward an important, important sector, food production. The fourth point is simplification, i.e. that by introducing new technologies in a clearly simpler way, we will be able to simplify the systems and, by doing so, to create incentives. And last comment: Natural handicap compensation, i.e. a compensatory system, is a total priority for Finland. It is clear that it must be. We have so different European countries that this must be, and we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u31	Next up, Congressman Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u32	Mr President! On Tuesday, we made a valuable decision here. We wanted to invest in the future, we wanted to invest in the well-being of our children. In the Finnish welfare state, in the Nordic welfare society, children's equality and well-being are of paramount importance to us. We share this together. In general, children's rights, fundamental rights, are well realised in Finnish society, but there are also gaps in our legislation. There are gaps that can even be called shame marks, and one of them is that under Finnish law it is still possible to grant an exemption to a minor in marriage. In Finnish society, therefore, child marriages are still possible and legal. The Marriage Act requires an adulthood, but the Ministry of Justice has the possibility to derogate from the requirement of full age with the exception of the Ministry of Justice. In no way can this be considered acceptable to Finnish society from the point of view of the realisation of children's fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u33	Mr President! This was a pleasant question, for the work is in progress. We are preparing ourselves for domestic child marriages, but also for forced marriages at the Ministry, and I believe that there will be more wisdom in what will then be done in the early part of the year. Then it's time for conclusions. Now we are carefully analysing the regulatory model that could be removed, the effects it will have, because these Finnish cases are such that people are very close to adulthood, and there are other reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u36	Next up, Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u37	Mr President! Finland is the Presidency of the Arctic Council, and of course it gives us the lead. The Presidency of the Council remains until that spring 2019. As a result, we have had several meetings, and the EU's first high-level Arctic Conference was held in Finland, Oulu in the summer, and a few weeks ago, in November, there was an Arctic Spirit meeting in Rovaniemi, where our Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, was very hard on these UN Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 objectives, so that they are a lifeline for the Arctic region, a survival strategy, and Mr Soini said that it is not just a wish and a thought. And now I would like to ask the ministers, either the Minister for Transport or the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development: what are Finland's objectives in relation to these UN Agenda 2030 objectives, which talk about infrastructure, innovation, sustainable development objectives throughout?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u38	Madam President! Thank you for this question. The work of the Arctic region has been very central to this government's work, and we are strongly committed to a number of aspects: in the Arctic, we are working specifically with regard to environmental objectives and Agenda 2030, we are also ensuring accessibility, we are making better use of research and science, especially in metrological areas, and we are also investing in the promotion of education and research. From Infra's point of view, we have sought to promote projects in the field of telecommunications, the construction of wireless connections, and also in the case of the North-East bus cable project, when we set up links through the Arctic region. At the same time, we are conducting a study on the Arctic track. All these projects include extensive environmental studies, including impact on society and the local population. So from these points of view, we take our projects forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u39	Next up, Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u40	Mr President! The government's cutting policy makes it difficult for the most low-income citizens to cope. When a person runs out of money, he even has to make a living in bread lines. This was also the case on Independence Day, and this is by no means honorable in a 100-year-old civilization. Examples of the government's austerity measures for next year are the freezing of benefits to the National Pensions Index and tax increases affecting the price of housing. The freezing of the National Pensions Index is a very severe economic policy measure that makes life very difficult for the most low-income people and represents a serious deterioration in basic income. The Government also makes tax increases affecting the price of housing, such as tightening the taxation of heating fuels. Mr President! It is unacceptable for the people of Peru to take government action. The position of the low-income population is already inconvenient,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u41	Mr President! In that sense, of course, the peculiar question that the government follows exactly the fiscal policy line, the economic programme, the EUR 4 billion savings programme that was agreed together two and a half years ago in Smolna, where the Finnish People's Party was involved. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u42	Next up, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u43	Madam President! I'm asking about nature conservation. The swamps help us to mitigate climate change and store carbon. The bogs are important both for biodiversity and for access to clean water. The protection of bogs is threatened, for example, by new drainage of forestry and growing peat extraction. During the last term of government, a supplementary programme was prepared, but this was unexpectedly withdrawn. The consequences are now beginning to appear, for the first valuable swamps for the protection programme are now being destroyed in my home country, Pirkanmaa, for example. Finland boasts its nature conservation at a high level. On the other hand, the government emphasises the importance of the bioeconomy in its programmes. I would ask you, Minister of the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen: how does the government intend to promote the protection of bogs, or does it intend to promote the protection of bogs, and if so, what will happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u44	Mr President! That's a good question for a representative. The government does not only intend to, but has already done so. In other words, the supplementary programme for coyte protection, which proposed the protection of some 117,000 hectares: the state has already played its part, i.e. 36,000 hectares of protection decisions have been taken. In addition, there are approximately 3000 to 400 hectares of voluntary private protected areas. Which means that the implementation of the program is well under way. The wooded bogs can be protected with the funding of Metso — the Forest Protection Programme for Southern Finland — which will be substantially increased next year. But the fact that there is a major threat to the bogs in that protection programme is fortunately not true. This one case is found where there was a permit application under the old legislation and, as you are well aware, permits must always be dealt with under the legislation of the application period. Fortunately, as far as I know, there are no other similar projects in progress, so the swamps are safe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u45	Next up, Congressman Mäkipää.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u46	Mr President! Every child grows and develops in different relationships and environments, but at some point it may happen that young people accumulate problems, social exclusion and loneliness, and the problems of home and school may become so insurmountable that mental health problems also arise. And worst of all, we know that one third of people under the age of 25 are killed by suicide. This is what makes you think about Christmas. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what concrete steps has the government taken in response to this unfortunate incident, and are there still playing cards so to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u47	Mr President! This is a serious issue, and I know that the Parliamentary Advisory Board on Mental Health, which includes representatives of all parliamentary parties, has also gone through this same theme. We are aware of the positive history that, in the 1990s, when Finland had a national programme to combat suicides, it saw effects. As a matter of individual financial importance, the key project in the promotion of well-being and health has targeted funding to the northernmost Finland in the individual municipality, Utsjoki, where statistics show a sad, high deviation, especially in the case of suicides. It has now been developed as a peer-support approach and, if it produces good results, it can be disseminated. Furthermore, I am pleased to say that we have had negotiations with Duodecim, which is responsible for the recommendations of Finnish medical professionals on the Healthy Care. There has been a major shortcoming that there have been no common guidelines for Finnish health care personnel in relation to those close to them who have tried to commit suicide or committed suicide. That's what they're making now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u48	Next up, Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u49	Madam President! You could say in one word about state ownership control that it's like a fog. For example, the Parliamentary Audit Committee intervened in management remuneration arrangements in Finnair. The government's own program says we're going to cut down on the severance payments. Apparently, Finnair knew how to circumvent this with supplementary pension schemes. I would have expected the government to intervene more vigorously in this procedure, to have pointed it out. Now we have a three-headed eagle in the whole state ownership policy: we own the state directly, we have Solidium, we have Vake. Now I would like an answer from the Minister of Responsibility: what are we going to do to clarify to the people and to the representatives of the people how the property of this country's state is managed through a policy of corporate governance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u50	Mr President! Contrary to what the representative put forward in his question, the Audit Committee in its own opinion clearly supported the line announced by the Board of Directors and the Ownership Steering Unit in this case in Finnair. So in it the Audit Committee gave, could you say, support after these events showed that the government’s policy that supplementary pensions should not be used had not gone through the whole chain of command. I mean, what's the policy? We have a very clear line: we have Solidium, where there are shares that are held, can we say, more active trade, we have Vake, through which significant new structural reforms will be financed, including SoteDig, and then we have traditional companies with strategic ownership and related purpose. So, yes, we have a very clear line here. I have to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u51	Next up, Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u52	Mr President! Indeed, this matter of state-owned companies’ remuneration was discussed in the Audit Committee following a public debate on Finnair, and it turned out that this general rule, adopted by the Government, according to which remuneration is performed has not been fully complied with in all state-owned companies, specifically in those companies with other owners. The committee's very unanimous position was that such supplementary pension schemes should not be made, and that has also been the government's point of departure in the past, that they are bad management under conditions which generally aim to increase the retirement age and call for people to work longer. In this context, however, the committee then stated that there are grounds for clarifying the Government's instructions so that all officials are aware that this is the position of the State in all companies and that in companies where the State is a shareholder the Minister will be informed if anything is done other than this general rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u53	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma actually took the floor which I myself could have taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u56	Next up, Congressman Torniainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u57	Madam President! Getting your own home is the biggest decision and investment in life for most Finns. The current Government and Parliament have amended the Land Use and Building Act several times. Similarly, building standards and bureaucracy have been reduced. So more decision-making has been given to municipalities and regions, that is, closer to people. In practice, however, for example, building permits and document requirements vary greatly from one municipality to another. Municipalities play an important role in people’s access to construction services. Minister, how can we speed up flexibility in the regulation of construction and the dismantling of red tape in the municipalities as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u58	Mr President! Liberalisation of construction, both in cities and in the country, has indeed been one of the objectives of the government, and we have made a number of legislative changes which provide the municipalities with those tools. For example, in cities the change of use from offices to dwellings is now entirely in the hands of cities. The process of refurbishment is accelerated by the fact that the planning process has been significantly facilitated. On the other hand, rural areas are affected, for example, by an unambiguous transfer of powers to local authorities. Free-time housing can be changed for permanent use if desired. And there will be no need for a landscape permit in the future for new patterns when municipalities prepare new general plans for agricultural and forestry areas. So these tools have been given. In fact, it is now necessary to remind municipalities that they have tools in place to facilitate construction and planning, and that is certainly the role of municipal decision-makers. The Ministry of the Environment also sends this message and instructions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u59	Next question, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u60	Mr President! There is cause for concern about the inequalities in the well-being of young people. Although the majority of young people are well, inequality is a serious problem. There are great differences in well-being both between students in upper secondary and vocational education and between the sexes. Regional disparities in well-being and access to services are also high. On the website of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, it was argued that school bullying among students and upper secondary school students is at different levels: up to 6% of boys studying in a profession are victims of school bullying at least once a week. What will the government do about every young person’s being able to attend a safe school? What does the government intend to do about every young person, regardless of the locality, receiving services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u61	Mr President! The fight against bullying at school is something that we must all have a very strong influence on. Every child and young person must have the opportunity to go to school safely and find friends and their place in that community. There were also worthy questions here about loneliness. It is one of the forms of bullying that is to leave alone and aside and not find friends in that community. Learning emotion and interaction skills, the safe learning environments, the responsibility of adults both in schools and at home, total interference and zero tolerance for all bullying that happens. When the measures were asked, this is a shared responsibility, but at the moment we have a team of experts working on the very fact that we have new models of intervention, and we are looking for them on a research basis. Nice School is one example, a successful research project that has had an impact and is also looking for new ways to deal with new bullying phenomena, such as social media and online.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u62	Next question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u63	Mr President! I was in a sports group that spent almost a year studying the money of physical activity. We had members of the opposition and the government in that group, as well as athletes. We sat for almost a year. We heard dozens of people, and we got hundreds of matches there, and we made a report on it. Even though we gave it up this summer, I ask the Minister: did this report go to the file, or is the Minister going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You gave it to me personally, I didn't throw it in the file. I remember there were 17 different proposals, although some of them go beyond the powers of my own industry, but which can otherwise be examined by the government. Some of them are precisely within my own remit, and I have already put in place a report from the government, which is going to be carried out on a point-by-point basis, which can be carried out and in what time frame, I hope, many already during this parliamentary term. For example, I particularly consider the question raised in your report about how to get young top athletes through those sensitive years to the top level, so that we can also get top athletes from them as adults, and, secondly, this question, which was raised spectacularly in the report and which Mr Arhinmäki referred to earlier, namely that people with different wealth and family backgrounds can all exercise — these are working on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u65	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u66	Mr President! The loneliness of the elderly is common in Finland. According to the Federation of the Old Ages, over one third of Finns aged 75 or over suffer from loneliness at least occasionally. Loneliness reduces quality of life, functional ability and memory functions. In addition to the elderly living alone, strong loneliness is also experienced in enhanced service housing and service houses. In this way, Finland in the 100th year and in the run-up to Christmas, we have a special responsibility to try to find ways to reduce the loneliness experienced by older people. Many organisations and many municipalities do a lot of good work to promote the community of older people and improve the quality of life. Yet the problem of loneliness needs more new ways. My question to the government is: what measures are being taken, for example, to support organisations, strengthen the role of care workers for the elderly or promote community housing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u67	Mr President! All the measures mentioned by the representative have been taken. Although it is an obligation for the government to answer what the government is doing, the wording of your question will also encourage us to reflect on the subject with a "what the whole of Finland is doing" approach. We can never get into a situation where, with public tax money, we can manage people's loneliness, for example, with the help of social workers. We will never have the resources to do so. And you may also ask, ‘ Is that a meaningful way to deal with it? ’ We have all parties in Parliament a long time ago committed ourselves to the goal of wanting people in Finland to live as long as possible at home, as long as the resources are sufficient. Last week we had an important debate on self-help in this regard. You brought up the Finnish organization field with merit. It is exceptionally good that this year's Finnish organisations, with social and health services, will have a bigger money pool than ever before to be distributed, and this should also be visible to older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u68	Next question, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u69	Mr President! There will be hasty messages from citizens and social workers regarding Kela's activities. There were good grounds for transferring basic income support to Kela, but unfortunately there were problems with transferring tasks. Fortunately, the worst problems and congestion have already been eliminated, but there are still question marks in Kela's operations. According to the contacts, Kela makes inflexible and arbitrary decisions in some cases. For example, no income support has been granted if the situation of primary benefits is unclear and so people have been left completely blank. There are also arbitrary household interpretations. Roommates are interpreted as couples and thus are denied or reduced benefits. Smaller dwellings are also forced to move, making housing queues worse. Kela's task should be to support the citizens, but now it seems that the task has been interpreted to minimise the payment of benefits. Mr President! I ask the minister concerned: what is the government doing to improve Kela's operating culture?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u70	For my part, Mr President, I have the answer to the question of the practice of income support. In this respect, there are situations where income support, which should be a last resort aid in a human financial situation, is a long-term form of livelihood for many. With regard to the payment of this form of support and the many details related to it, the concept of the household, which you mentioned, which also relates to the transfer of students to general housing allowance, is being updated as a guide, precisely in support of Kela and the municipal workers, how all these individual cases — including textbooks and other secondary students in public debate — should be resolved, because whatever the solution, it should be equal to all citizens, and the employees and social workers of Kela you mentioned should be protected and backed up to what solutions should be made in these matters. That guide is now at the very end of the line in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u71	Next question, Congressman Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u72	Mr President, värderade talman! I förslaget till social- och älsovårdsreform nämns det att för personer med stort vårdbehov ska landsskapets affärsverk göra en vårdplan och bevilja en årsbaserad personallig budget för hans eller hennes vård, mediciner, hjälpmedel och så vidare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u73	Mr President! The basic solution of the future social welfare reform model is, above all, a strong organiser, represented by 18 provinces. They are also responsible for multi-production, i.e. during different service providers, lastly to ensure equal services for all. The province's business organization you asked about is the body of public production that the Constitutional Committee called for to continue to be in all the provinces, and it therefore denied the idea of the government's incorporation. According to this solution, a free choice model has now been developed in the consultation. When you refer to this possibility of a personal budget for those who use a lot of services, I believe that, if properly implemented, it will in fact only increase multi-professional cooperation between social and health service professionals. But if we look at the situation of families with children, where we should also be connected to early childhood education or school services, then we will actually get the result of the study over the next few weeks with Minister Grahn-Laasonen, how the border between the region and the municipality is well crossed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u74	Next question, Congressman Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u75	Mr President! We have already talked about the reform of the European Union's agricultural policy. I will continue this debate: we know that climate change will challenge food production globally and very significantly in the next 20 years, so we should now start preparing for it as widely as possible. And against that background, I am a little disturbed: although it does talk about food safety and food security, it should be dismantled and opened up what measures are needed to ensure that, in future, more food is produced in the Member States of the European Union, because food is becoming increasingly in short supply over the next few decades. There are already one million starving people on the planet, and at the same time climate change eliminates important areas of agricultural production throughout the global area. Against this background, I would like to ask Minister Lepä: how does Finland raise the issue of climate change and the concrete measures it requires in the reform of agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u76	Madam Speaker! Mr Anttila's starting point for a clear need for food in the future is a fact. It is visible all over the world, at the same time as we have less chance of producing food on agricultural land. This equation is impossible and it is therefore essential to take measures to maintain our food security and safety, both at a high level. That is why, especially in the future, we need all its arable agricultural land for the growing population in a global way. Finland is a very exemplary country here. We have food production that is sustainable, we have water which, of course, we take good care of, which is a basic prerequisite for food production. We can produce the food that is the safest in the world, it is the cleanest in the world. We have many things to do by multiplying food security and food safety elsewhere, and that is where we need to get more out of this for what the whole food chain has been for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u77	Next question, Mr. Virolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u78	Madam President! The Slush event in November once again showed that Finland is one of the world's leading start-ups. We know that without start-ups there will also be no growth companies of the future. However, it is regrettable that our corporate structure is somewhat distorted. There are around 600 enterprises employing more than 250 people, and between 5 and 250 people there are over 2500, and there is also a pressing shortage of fast growth companies. My question to the government is: what measures are you going to take to ensure that these fast growth companies – i.e. those whose production, turnover and staff double every couple of years – cope with the challenges of growth in a sustainable manner?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u79	Madam President! Indeed, we face challenges in the whole business field and a lot of work has been done. One important thing is that we have been going through our financial package all along. As a whole, this palette is beginning to be in the condition that we are able to guarantee funding for these fast-growing companies as well. There was perhaps more value in the balance sheet than today for these fast-growing start-ups, but we have now been able to dismantle this financial bottlenecks by making these funds, three of which have now been set up — the latest 200 million fund with a leverage of around one billion. A big problem for these fast-growing people is also accessing professionals, and their best ones, and for this reason the government has set up its own Talent Boost programme, which seeks international hard-earners specifically for these start-ups, which are on the threshold and which are actually standing or falling down accordingly,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u80	Next question, Congressman Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u81	Mr President! Mr Schulz, President of the German Social Democrats, said today: 'I want a European Constitution that creates the United States of Europe'. There are now negotiations on a new German government, and apparently the Social Democrats are today deciding to go at least to negotiate a new government under the leadership of Merkel. And it is likely that this type of government programme will come, that is, the future German government will want the United States of Europe, as mentioned in this news release about three or four hours ago. And we know the position of French President Macron, he has kept in touch with Schulz all the time and wants such a government to come to Germany. So politics is changing pretty much. What is your view, Mr Prime Minister, and Mr European Minister, of the future of Europe and the role of Finland in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u82	Madam President! The German elections and the negotiations on the German Government will certainly play a key role in discussing the future of Europe and the decisions we are about to take in the near future. But as early as March this year, in the Rome Declaration, we laid down that we do not want and have no preconditions for a change aimed at amending the Treaty. In other words, there will not be any development in this direction in the near future. Instead, we have a lot of work to do: Defence cooperation is getting deeper. We have the future of the euro, the further development of EMU. We have a lot of practical work to do, in which the hands of us in the next few months, the next few years will be full of work. There is no fear of the development that the representative has put forward in this direction, because it would require a revision of the Treaty and we have said together,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u83	Next question, Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u84	Mr President! According to press reports, vocational schools have started to transfer the work of teachers of the profession to school instructors, up to 50% of the education has been transferred in this way. This must result in future graduates from vocational schools who do not have the skills they had before. As a result, when they are looking for a job, employers do not give jobs unless there is a guarantee of their skills. As a result, Minister Lindström will be able to share more carnivals and more sanctions for these young people, who, despite the fact that they are seeking work, will not be able to get a job. Is this really the purpose of today's education: we train young people who are already incompetent, we search abroad for qualified people to do their jobs and we distribute sanctions to domestic young people and we replace them, we add them to the 70,000 other marginalised young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u85	Mr President! The new legislation on vocational education and training specifically ensured the status of qualified teachers and tutors, and this legislation is very clear in this respect. Of course, the government does not take a position on labour market disputes. But that is what I want to say about vocational education and training: with the major reform of vocational education and training, we will be able to better respond to the constantly changing skills needs of the future and to serve the very diverse group that is the target group in vocational education and training. A new type of knowledge-based system that builds personal paths with more extensive qualifications that meet the needs of the future, builds and forms the basis on which vocational education and training is actually being carried out in the future. I know that vocational educational institutions across Finland are in a state that is in many ways strained by this change, because the economic situation has also been weak, but at the same time the government is also preparing to support this big change, two decades of the biggest educational reform, with a large, comprehensive package of support including:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u86	And one more question, Mr Kivelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u87	President! A strange phenomenon, a virtual currency, has emerged in the world economy. Bitcoin's market value is estimated at about $250 billion. This involves a great deal of crime, tax evasion and is developing virtual tax havens. How, Minister Orpo, has the Finnish Government responded to this issue in international fora?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u88	Mr President! This is indeed a phenomenon which is growing, developing — in principle legal in itself, but both the domestic authorities and the supervisory authorities, both at home and in Europe, must be very closely monitored and, in particular, try to identify if there are criminal features in this activity, because it is not official in the same way, it is not a currency, therefore, within the normal system. I believe that it requires very close monitoring and cooperation between the authorities, both at European level and at OECD level, because these are global phenomena, and therefore global solutions are also needed to monitor and monitor them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u89	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to the issue of inequality between Mrs Kymäläinen and others. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. Mr Kymäläinen will speak first. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u90	Madam President! Today we are dealing with the issue of inequality in the opposition. Yesterday we celebrated together Finland’s 100th anniversary with the theme Together. All parties in this Chamber wanted and wanted to combat and reduce inequalities, unemployment and exclusion. Together we want everyone in Finland to have the right to experience that he has a value and a place in this society, that we are here together. In history we have risen from poor people to the top of the world. All parties in this Chamber have been involved in the construction of a country, improving living conditions and eliminating inequalities in the various governments. Today, Finland is one of the most equal, safe and prosperous countries in the world. We have built this society in such a way that opportunities are available to everyone and that those who do not manage themselves are helped. Before I go through the arguments of the opposition, I would like to put this debate on the right scale. After ten years of recession, we have finally been involved in a strong economic upturn. The financial crisis that began in 2008 plunged Finland into recession. During one year, our GDP contracted by over 8 per cent. At its worst, Finland took up nearly EUR 10 billion of debt per year. Many Finns were left without work because of the recession. More families became concerned about the future. All parties in this Chamber know that heavy debt had to be stopped. It has been Finland’s strength that all parties have committed themselves and took part in the government’s responsibility for economic rehabilitation in turn. So does this government. Nothing else threatens equal services for Finns, the promise of care and pensions for the elderly and the future of our children, as well as the recklessly continuing indebtedness and the poor economic situation that increases unemployment and invisibility. That, too, is what everyone in this Chamber knows. The difficult economic situation is the story of tens of thousands of Finns. Unemployment is the worst problem in our society and one of the main causes of inequality. The Government has assumed its responsibility and made the necessary decisions to ensure that Finland’s economy is finally restored. The central objective of the government's economic policy is to put Finland's economy on a strong footing, boost economic growth, strengthen Finland's competitiveness and increase employment. The important social and health services and education needed by Finns must be reformed and reformed for the future. Firstly, this has meant strengthening public finances and strict spending discipline. We have adjusted our public finances by $4 billion to finally end living in debt on our children. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u114	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Orpo and the Government, for their answer. Wanting is important, but more needs to be done. Desiring is not enough if actions continue to take you in the other direction. Mr President! There is a lot of good in a 100-year-old Finland. We are one of the top welfare countries with many different indicators. When the Finnish welfare state was started to be built, the starting point was that everything should be included and everything kept in it. Now this basic idea seems to have disappeared. From the values of the Sipilä government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u129	Let us now turn to the round of — — — — First of all, the Parliament Group in the centre, representative Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u130	Mr President! I'm going back to yesterday's Fourth of July mood. We have built one of the best, most stable and safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u139	Mr President! What is 100-year-old Finland like? Finland is a good country, because our country is one of the least unequal countries in the world. We are in our own class in comparison of OECD countries with indicators of income balance, income differentials and relative poverty. We are also the world's top country in terms of equality of opportunity. In 2016, Stanford University published a widely reported comparison of inequality between ten prosperous countries and the conditions for social rise, Finland was a model student of the comparison. The opposition's left-wing parties claim that inequality exploded in Finland. The facts do not support this claim. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] Mr President! Finland is, and will continue to be, an equal country, which is well placed to train and work in order to achieve its own dreams, regardless of its origins and regions. There's always something better for the best. The low income gap in international comparisons does not comfort the long-term unemployed or young people looking for work without a place of study or workshop. That is why the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party sees it as important that we discuss ways of preventing exclusion, inequality and poverty. Government efforts to achieve growth, employment and entrepreneurship are already producing results: the economy is growing, employment is improving, and long-term unemployment is falling. During this period of government, employment has so far increased by nearly 40,000 persons, which has improved the livelihood and prospects of a large number of families. Mr President! Work distinguishes population groups from those who do well and those who do poorly. The exclusion of working life and, consequently, the social network on a daily basis is one of the main social problems. The fact that as many people as possible work and are able to build both our own and our common future is the best remedy against inequality. Employment growth reduces income disparities, combats poverty and strengthens the financing of public services and benefits. This will also benefit those who need services. In terms of income differentials, the differences between the Nordic countries are small, but Finland is significantly lagging behind its comparisons in the employment rate. If we too had a 75% employment rate at the Nordic level, the government would not have to be anxious to freeze the indexes, increase the public debt, or lack of sustainability. [KristaKiuru’s interlude] Mr President! In order to achieve sustainable solutions, effective and supportive measures are needed, such as promoting local reconciliation and reviewing the needs of foreign labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u142	Mr President! It is right that the Prime Minister's deputy, Mr Petteri Orpo, is so strongly in favour of the objectives of the coalition: the reduction of the welfare state and the market model Finland. In other words, a society of the past in which everyone is on their own and where tax money is an enabler for companies to make profits. A society where the welfare state turns into a night watch state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u149	Mr President! Let me start with a quote: "The short-term prospects for the economy are long-term hopeful. Growth has picked up as the pull of exports has intensified and become more broad-based. The increase in unemployment has fallen. Long-term unemployment is on a downward trend, although it remains worryingly high. The growth of world trade, the stimulation of investment and a labour market solution that strengthens competitiveness have helped Finland's export prospects and employment." Mr President, the quote sounds like a government text, but it is not. The Sitat is an alternative to the budget opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Finns of Finland. The opposition therefore admits that the government's actions are correct or, at the very least, in the right direction. However, we blues take seriously the issue of inequality between the opposition. Inequality between people and groups of people is far from what the blue and the government pursues in their own policy. Finnish society is a success story that no one wants to break. Good life belongs to everyone. Yes, this government has made a lot of difficult decisions, but they have been forced to do so in order to break the accelerating debt. Growth and inequality in income differentials are issues that have primarily been managed through economic policy. The recent slight increase in income differentials, if any, is explained by the sharp decline in average-paid jobs and, at the same time, by the increase in the number of low- and high-paid jobs, rather than by government intervention — on the contrary. In Finland, the tax and benefit system effectively equalises income — the third highest according to OECD statistics. The government's economic policy has taken into account different categories of income and groups of people, contrary to what the opposition claims. The most noteworthy difference is the solidarity tax. The solidarity tax will continue under the same conditions as it did this year. Progress in capital taxation has also been tightened. Yes, in this country, people with high incomes still pay more taxes than people with low incomes, this has not changed anything. Improvements have been made in the area of taxation for low incomes. An example of this is the increase in the payment threshold for the public service tax, which exempts more citizens from the levy on the general public. Since then, around 740,000 low incomes have been exempted from this tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u152	Mr President! For Finns, stopping the growth of inequality is of paramount importance. [Left: opposition!] The policy of the Finns of Peru is based on the security and humanity of Finns, which the current government has unfortunately forgotten. The issue of inequality deserves real concern and concrete action to reduce inequality. Mr President! The people of Peru could not support the issue of the Green Left, because its methods are very different from those of the Finns of Peru. When the SDP was in the government during the last parliamentary term, the policy pursued by the SDP led to 100,000 new unemployed people. Thus, inequality increased significantly with the government of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u157	Mr President! Poverty has not left Finland since the age of 100. Every week 20,000 citizens have to resort to food aid. The bread queues are expected to grow because of government policy. During this parliamentary term, the rich have become rich, the poor have been impoverished and the income gap has turned to growth. The government has cut people whose livelihoods are still scarce, i.e. the unemployed, pensioners, those with a lot of suffering and students. The operations have extended to basic security, housing subsidies, medical and travel expenses and student money. Deterioration of basic security increases the number of people who have to rely on income support. This is a short-sighted policy. The basic security of an unemployed person living alone currently covers about 73% of the minimum budget. Nevertheless, the government is targeting further cuts in unemployment security. After unemployment, the cost of housing is the main cause of poverty. Yet the government continues to cut the housing allowance. Health inequalities are considerable in Finland when you are 100 years old. Nevertheless, the government increased customer charges by about 30 per cent last year. At the same time as the poorest have been cut off, the government has directed tax cuts at the wealthy. This policy has increased income differentials. The government's indifference is reflected in the fact that the government does not assess the impact of its decisions on different population groups, such as families with children and poor pensioners, or, for example, on equality. Low-paid and female-dominated sectors in the public sector bear the greatest burden of government cuts. Men have benefited more from the government's economic policy than women, and many feel that only a setback has been taken in the promotion of equality during this term of government. During the last government term, the Government Programme focused on reducing poverty, inequality and exclusion. Basic security and housing allowance were increased and the taxation of low incomes was reduced. At the same time, taxes on high incomes were tightened. This narrowed the income gap. In the Sipilä Government Programme, poverty is mentioned once, in the context of foreign policy. Since the government is not seeking to reduce poverty and inequality, there is no reduction in poverty and inequality, on the contrary, the government's policy has led to an increase in the number of poor people and income differentials have been reversed. The differences in income must be guarded because they are a sign of inequality in society. Inequalities are reflected in the fact that uneducated people are inherited, residential areas are differentiated and young people are sick. These are concrete issues that need to be worried about. Government policy not only lacks efforts to reduce inequality, the government does the opposite of what should be: cut early education, primary schools, youth guarantees and vocational schools, and make learning a loan priority. For the government is gnawing at Finland's greatest strength, that everyone has the same opportunities to move forward in their lives regardless of the size of the wallet. The increase in poverty and the decline in equality in education are a bad legacy for the next 100 years. It is an inheritance that we cannot afford for future generations, let alone the right to leave. That is why we Greens are talking about it, which is why we are challenging the government both for education and for increasing inequality. The Greens believe that cuts in social security should not be allowed. It is not reasonable that index savings should be used to discipline families with children, the unemployed, pensioners and sick Finns in particular, while the competitiveness pact and tax reductions favour high incomes. The Greens' option is to combat poverty through a fair tax policy. Mr President! Poverty is much more than a lack of money. It's a lack of vision, a sense of lack of participation, a sense of outsidership. The earlier the inequality is addressed, the better the results. Quality early childhood education and adequate resources for comprehensive school must be provided for all children. Regional disparities need to be offset by targeted support. Social welfare reform must be carried out in a way that compensates for differences in well-being and health and also guarantees services for disadvantaged people. Reducing poverty requires a determined policy. The level of basic security must be taken care of. Social security must be developed in such a way that it takes better account of the fragmented working life and enables the employment of those who are able to work part-time. We need a foundation to remove the incentive traps. We need to reduce unemployment. Urban poverty must be reduced by building uterine - priced dwellings. The government must cancel its unfair cuts and draw up a programme of measures to reduce poverty and inequality, because in Finland, 100 years of age, well-being belongs to everyone. Mr President! On the basis of the above arguments, the Green Parliamentary Group agrees with the motion of censure put forward by Mr Kymäläinen to the Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u158	Mr President! The world does not know society without inequality. Of all countries, we find mechanisms that favor one past the other and allow some to benefit from the other’s work. But although inequality exists everywhere, its number is not constant. The countries where decision-makers are committed to active work for equality have been the countries closest to an equal society. For a long time, Finland was one of these. Inequality can be nested in any area of life, but typically it crystallizes with ownership: they are given to those who already have. That is why income and wealth differences are often used to describe these structures, although inequality is, of course, a phenomenon that goes much beyond the euro: legislation, education, belonging to a group, length of life and course. Mr President! When inequality has become rooted in the structures of society, it will not be constrained in one or two electoral periods. Fortunately, equality achieved over the decades will not disappear overnight either. Because of the slowness of movement, it is not by the number of social inequalities that individual governments should be measured, but by the direction of development: Is the government aware of the consequences of inequality? Is it being treated with proper seriousness? Are small differences in wealth and equality of opportunity a political goal for the government or an image building? At the moment, Finland is being led by a group who have not shown much interest in reducing inequality. The socio-economic impact of the decisions will not be weighed. The growth of income differentials is being underestimated. Inequality structures are being fostered and even strengthened. Against this main line are the government’s individual equality projects like a rich coin for the Salvation Army’s Christmas pot: It’s great that the poor can eat on the eve. It doesn't matter how long it's been since Stephen's Day. Mr President! For a long time, Finland was built by governments who knew that such a small nation could not afford to suppress any of its members, that everyone would benefit when everyone was given the opportunity to grow to their full potential. With this simple recipe, Finland rose from poor agrarian society to a rich welfare state. Then the guards fell asleep. By the 21st century, income differentials had declined to the level of the 1970s, and wealth differentials had been reversed. Now the growth of inequality is already being alerted by many other indicators from the level of education to health. When the left-wing union was in the government during the last parliamentary term, this was taken seriously. Even the downturn succeeded in making decisions that reduced income differentials. Now we have a government that, in the midst of a booming cycle, increases income disparities through its own decisions. Finland urgently needs more tax progress, not tax relief for rich people and a soft attitude towards tax avoidance. It needs a reliable basic security system, not cuts in the income transfers of the poorest. Finland needs reductions in basic services fees and increases in pharmaceutical reimbursements, not on the contrary, and deserves a government that encourages policies to reduce the pay gap in the labour market, not to increase them. Above all, every bill, budget line and decision by the authorities must be assessed against the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ask whether this decision will lead to equality or increasing inequality in their country? We must work tirelessly to reduce child poverty and to achieve equal access to education. Children must be guaranteed the right to early childhood education regardless of their place of residence or the labour market status of the parent and protection from persecution regardless of their passport. Mr President! Inequality is the condensing stupidity of mankind, lizard intelligence, and self-destructiveness. Whether measured by gross national product or by the well-being of the population, the societies where governments are determined and united to defend everyone's right to flourish are the most successful. That's the kind of government the Finns deserve. For the above reasons, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group supports the representative The motion of censure tabled by Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u159	Värderade Talman! Landets economist har kommit in på ett bra spår. Om man mäter i tillväxtsiffror går det faktikt definitivt bättre för Finland nu, det kan ingen förneka. Det som regeringen daremot misslyckats med är att förhindra att de sociala klyftorna fördjupas. Det finns svart på vitt att medborgarna som hör till de lägsta inkomstgrupperna får ett negativt balance av den politik som regeringen genomför nästa år. Här frågar vi inom SFP och svenska riksdagsgruppen: Varför tillåts detta, och var blev de komenserande åtgärderna som på riktigt stärker de mest utsata hushållens ekonomis och köpkraft?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u160	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party considers the issue of increasing inequality raised by the interim issue to be important. Finland is in many ways an unequal country in which not all Finns have equal opportunities for equal levels of education, health care and social security. Regional variations in public services and their availability are significant. Finland is becoming divided into successful regions and regions of high unemployment. In growth centres, housing prices run away from the reach of young families, and elsewhere housing prices have collapsed. Keeping Finland regionally united, where services would be equal, is escalating further and further away. [Interjection] A few weeks ago, on a proposal from the government, Parliament approved a reform of the District Court, in which legal security was weakened both regionally and linguistically, and this proposal contributed to increasing inequality. This despite the particular concern expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in its opinion. The government has set itself the goal of caring for society. Is the government giving in when it ignores the growing concern of citizens about increasing inequalities? Mr President! This intermediate issue is not entirely honest with itself, for inequality is not just the result of the actions of this government. This inequality is considered to have started already in 1995, when the post-depression boom began and at the same time the minimum security was frozen. The governments under the leadership of the Social Democrats did not then correct this inadequacy. During the last government term, a significant level increase was made in basic security, while income differentials decreased. However, unfortunately, in this parliamentary term, progress has again been worse. Over the past 100 years, we Finns have built a single comprehensive school, functional health care and comprehensive social security. We can do it again, but does this government want it? Does this government want to recognise the facts and start reforming basic security, admit that right now, today, the cuts that have been made to the lowest incomes and the sick have increased inequality, while economic growth has started and the incomes of the well-earned have increased? We need a genuine basic security reform that combines basic forms of support and housing aid. The reform of the Christian Democrats' supportive model of basic security would put an end to the poverty-enhancing incentive traps. One aid, on the basis of a one-stop shop principle, and automatic counting of aid will reduce red tape traps. It always makes work worthwhile. In addition to the basic security reform, personal support, services and guidance for people dependent on basic security must be increased. We can't do that with the resources we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u161	Now we're going to the debat. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Minister Orpo, five minutes, and to Prime Minister Sipilä, also five minutes, and then we will proceed with another debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u162	Mr President! Yesterday's speeches when you listened to and read from the parliamentary groups, the message was that Finland is one of the best countries in the world, you were all proud of Finland, and today, when you listen to the speeches of the same groups, you get the impression that Finland is the worst country in the world. [Heckling] That's quite a contrast to what you're talking about. And I regret to say that I find it unfair, unpleasant that the opposition is given the impression that we do not care. It's like we don't want a poor family to have something to eat on the day of the killing. I find that offensive. These parties, which are in the government, have made and do:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u167	Ladies and gentlemen! Short, sharp interludes may refresh the conversation, but long stories with the speaker will not do so. I would ask that this be taken into account when we hear the next interlude.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u168	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you for your contributions. I listened to them very carefully. I will return to the list of Statistics Finland's Finance Minister Orpo, which has been compiled in honour of Finland's 100th year of international research. Finland is the most stable and secure country in the world, we have the best administration, we are the most free country in the world, along with Sweden and Norway. We are the third richest and second best country of social development. After Denmark and Sweden, we are the most socially just EU country. We are the fifth happiest country in the world and the best country in the world in comparison with human well-being. In comparison with the OECD countries, we have the fourth lowest poverty rate and the fifth lowest income differentials. Of EU citizens, Finns are the second most common close people to whom they can rely. Finns are the second most satisfied of Europeans in their lives. Finland is the third most equal country in the world. We have the second most human capital in the world, and we are the second most just country for children. Finland is also the second best country in the world to be a girl, and basic education is the best in the world. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u171	We're going to the debat. I would now ask the representatives who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button. The first round of replies will take place between the representatives who have just spoken in the group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u172	Mr President! One hundred years of independent Finland has been built and the welfare state has been achieved. This is good, the world's best, the country, in many respects leading the way from people's point of view. What is currently worrying the Social Democratic opposition is that the actions of this government, i.e. the actions of this government, are building on the development of inequality, which will have a long-term impact on the future in a way that weakens the Finnish economy and people. It is important for us that employment is strengthened, it is important for us that jobs are created, it is economic growth. Our difference with this government of yours was that, at the same time as the fiscal adjustments that were made, which were based on spending cuts and increased incomes, a fair policy was adopted in such a way as to improve the livelihoods of the most vulnerable people in this society. The level of basic daily allowance was significantly increased, the amount of last-time income support increased significantly, and this led to lower income disparities. Adjustment measures were taken with the help of:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u173	Mr President! When you listen to the opposition, you might think that everything was better. It always sounds like Ingrid's Evil Fiction. Finland is the most stable country in the world. We are the third most equal country in the world and the third richest country in the world. Finland is the second most just country in the world for children. This is how well things are when you look a little further away. However, not all Finns are doing well, and the city centre has a 100-year tradition of caring for the disadvantaged, the poor. Mr President! In order to combat inequality, it is the social and health service and regional reform that must be brought to an end. It seems to some that this is sometimes forgotten, why this reform is being carried out and needed. This will be done in order to ensure equal services for the weaker. In the future, the Centre will also defend public health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u174	Mr President! Finland is the best country for Finns, and we all agree on that. Finland is the home of Finns, including many others, and it is our job to take care of this home. That is why I believe that this debate on the interim issue and attention to inequality is well founded. I wonder about the way the government takes credit for all the achievements of Finland, as it were, and the last thing we see here is that even a small budding economic growth, largely due to the volatility of the euro-dollar exchange rates and its favourableness to the upturn in Europe and Europe, the government is trying to take all the credit. One of the things I would like to hear from the government now is this immigration policy, which is disastrous. Free travel in society should not be allowed, and this burdenes us, gnawing our society from within. Can you tell me directly whether you intend to turn immigration policy into work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u175	Mr President! “The payment of taxes is affected,but it is only so that even Alma's absolutely right. Taxes and transfers are the main means of reducing poverty and reducing income disparities. When these means are left untapped, raise your hands. Without a decisive policy, the world will lead to an increase in income differentials as working life changes and middle-income jobs decline and wealth gaps increase. The government cuts basic security and directs tax cuts to the wealthy. The increase in income inequality means an increase in inequality and an increase in inequality means an increase in uneducatedness and longer bread queues. Therefore, small signals must also be taken into account in the growth of income differentials. Let me ask you something. What Does the Government Say?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u176	Mr President! Here we heard on many different grounds that Finland is still one of the finest countries in the world. Among the hundreds of comparisons, children have the third most secure childhood in the world and Finland is the second most just country in the world for children. After all, we must think about and build the future. When there was an intermediate issue in Parliament on this same subject, the SDP was in the government and responsible and the first signatory of this intermediate issue, Mr Kymäläinen, said: "There is no money, and the debt is growing. There must be action, and one who is responsible must. You can try from the opposition
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u177	Mr President! A relatively high employment rate is certainly a good thing in our system, but at the same time we must keep it crystal clear that a high employment rate without equality does not bring well-being to society. We have many countries where the employment rate is falling and yet children are dying of hunger. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u178	Mr President! At the end of that speech by Mr Kontula, the message'so' is good because his speech was entirely correct. The employment rate plus equality is the whole. This is the whole plot of the Cuplet that this is what our government has done. [Department:Where is equality? ] This is what Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto pointed out, but taxes and current transfers are best balanced and specifically reduce inequalities and income inequalities. That too is just the right thing to say, and that is also what the government does. According to OECD statistics, Finland accounts for the third highest level of income transfers and taxation in the OECD countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u179	Irade the Talman! Det är klart att vi i vårt land gjort många saker rätt, men det betyder inte att vi inte har saker som ännu skulle kunna förbättras, det finns många sådana. Vi behöver stärka den sociala tryggheten, vi vet att senmförsörjarna hör till de barnfamiler som har det allra svårast. Vi har fortfarande i vår lag en märklig koppling mellan senmförsörjartiltagget och utkomstödet. Vi borde förbättra senmförsörjarnas situation, och det skulle gå på ett ganska enkelt sätt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u180	Mr President! As I said in my speech, inequality has been going on for 22 years, and this should be the case for all Members of Parliament in this Chamber to say that each of us has allowed it to happen. The big question is: does this government now want to take on such a historic responsibility as a government in which the development of inequality, which has begun during the last recession, is halted and a new period is begun? Together, Tillsammans we can do it. That is the answer that we Christian Democrats would like to hear, because we are prepared to do the work. We offer the hand of cooperation and would like to see that this development in Finland would be reversed during this government. We are the ones who are trying to help the government, so please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u181	This round will be closed by Mr Kymäläinen, the first signatory of the interim question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u182	Mr President! Here since the last period, Minister Orpo, I have been quoted as a group speaker on the interim issue, in which I was responsible for inequality. It was then honestly stated, as far as the government is concerned and we too are concerned, that the issue of inequality is important and needs to be addressed and commended for it. It is important that when you quote, you also finish quoting. As I said, "Even if it has been cut, poverty has not increased, but it must be reduced". As the economy grows, growth must be visible to those who have been cut off. This is not going to happen, and that is what we are asking. And even though we did, the services were not cut at any point, and now they are cut off a lot. [ Intermediaries on the Groups of the Coalition Party and the Centre Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u183	In the meantime, I will give Mr Terho the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u184	Mr President! — You may have forgotten that youth is my responsibility, and there were many concerns about the exclusion of young people and the guarantee for young people. — With regard to the Youth Guarantee, several measures have been taken by the government. We have a leading project called the Youth Guarantee in the direction of the Community guarantee, and its key measures are therefore to create an operating model in which one body is responsible for the young person in need of support, i.e. to provide all the necessary services. This is happening in practice through the Cabs, which have now been decided to permanentise. Secondly, the aim is to ensure a place of education for all young people who have completed comprehensive school, which has been promoted by funding development measures to develop the functioning of flexible basic education. The aim is also to strengthen the social, health and mental health services of young people, thereby guaranteeing rehabilitation places, and this has been funded by a pilot project to strengthen the operational and work capacity and participation opportunities of young people who are excluded from education and employment. Similarly, a national youth work and policy programme has already been completed by the government, where the main objectives are that every child and young person has access to at least one desirable hobby, that young people's employment skills are strengthened and that exclusion is reduced, that young people's opportunities for participation and participation are increased, that fewer young people have mental health problems, and that young people receive adequate advice and other support for their independent living. A lot of measures are under way in the youth field. Then there are some general comments on the opening remarks. I'll start with an easier head. True Finns gave a very constructive speech, but I would like to point out that the 3% growth rate is not small or budding, it is very significant. Similarly, the social reform and cuts you have criticised are largely approved by you. The Social Democrats have brought us accusations about a great many things, including the cut in the guarantee pension, even though we have three times decided to raise it, the cut in the holiday money, although it is not even part of our competence. You pointed out that Finland spends the least of the Nordic funds on basic education, but the results are still comparable, which is probably an even more important benchmark. As measures, you yourself presented only expenditure increases without, as usual, presenting corresponding sources of revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u187	Mr President! At least the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, felt that good decisions were also taken during the last period, which are now bearing fruit in employment policy. Finland is one of the best countries in the world, no one disputes it, and it is a fact, but in order for this to be the case in the future, we must be able to read the silent signals that are happening in this society and the silent signals tell us that inequality is on the increase. If you look at the actions of the government and the medicines that you are offering to do this, when you emphasise the need to improve employment — that is what I, if anyone, am happy about, and that is a fact, and even the fact that long-term unemployment has fallen is a good thing, that people have been retired there, that there is a basic income built to eliminate people from unemployment, and many things that affect these statistics — I ask you, Petteri Orpo: When employment improves, how can it be possible for you to estimate an increase in income support expenditure? Why do you keep bringing laws into this hall?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u188	Mr President! In that sense, I very much agree with Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo that Finland is a good country. For this we can thank the previous generations who left us with the best education system in the welfare state and in the country. And the decision-makers of this time must cherish that inheritance,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u191	Mr President! Finland is indeed a very fine country, but Finland has relatively high customer fees in social welfare and health care services. Customer fees have been increased several times, while the contributions to medicines and travel expenses have been increased and social security benefits have been cut. These decisions taken by the government have really increased the inequality of citizens and have weakened the position of people with high and low incomes in particular. Mr Government, with this reform of social security, reforms are also coming into the system of customer fees, but it seems a little problematic that this reform could not be taken forward together with the social and health reform. We still do not know what kind of customer fee changes are coming, whether customer fees are still on the increase in Finland's future. I find it extremely worrying. Do you now have any answers to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u192	Mr President! We agree that Finland is a good country today. I think that more must be done to discuss how we can continue to maintain strong employment, a predictability that maintains the very strong confidence of consumers. At random, if we increase permanent expenditure, it may have a negative impact on consumer confidence, but in particular on the predictability that affects investment and the creation of new jobs. That is why it is very important to think very carefully about how, in the future, when growth may give opportunities, we can improve those transfers which then maintain consumer confidence and predictability in such a way that the whole is manageable. This is the most important fact of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u193	Mr President! There is bound to be backslidings about literature when you listen to this long list of government parties and government officials, how well things are: the hungry soldier of an unknown soldier who says go to them and complain about your hunger, they strike you in front of the rags that you cannot be hungry on the basis of the number of calories. In this situation again today, the government is trying to show that all things are so excellent that there is no problem. However, I would like to ask whether inequalities are increasing or decreasing: if the taxation of millions of inheritances is reduced and, at the same time, basic security, such as national pensions, housing allowance and other social security is reduced, will this not increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u194	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä listed the numerous international studies according to which Finland is one of the world's top countries. If all the problems that the opposition listed in its speeches are the fault of the Sipilä Government in Finland today, then with similar logic all the great achievements that we all praised yesterday are thanks to the Sipilä Government. Of course, this is not the case in practice. [ Hustles from the left] I am most disturbed by the opposition's criticism of its historylessness. When I was a small child, our family, a family of four, lived in a studio in Kamppi, Helsinki. How many families of children today live in a rental unit? None — nor should they.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u195	Mr President! I'm a little funny now about this historylessness, which a few people have mentioned. During the last term of the government, I have worked at the Local Register Office and then talked a lot with the people of the Employment Office, and I remember how the productivity programme in the state administration was constantly running. Personnel were reduced from employment offices and local register offices. Services decreased, and our workload increased enormously. Let's be honest. Minister Orpo, you have now spoken about the fact that we have been working on a government programme and we have agreed to the cuts of EUR 4 billion. Before the election, all the parties announced that cuts should be made. The question is where to target them. Tell me about this autumn’s budget whether we Finns have now been involved in, for example, your fuel tax or other things you will do next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u196	Mr President! In the world’s top country, Finland too, we must ensure that people can feel that they are treated fairly and equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u199	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, if he knows why we are here today to talk about this subject. Because many low-income Finns yesterday celebrated 100-year-old Finland's Independence Day in the bread queue, and because when the Left-wing Union ordered an assessment of the impact of the decisions taken by the Parliament on income differences, this calculation showed in black and white that the decisions taken by the Government increase income differences in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u200	Mr President! The Government rides here with the historical achievements of the previous Finnish governments and parliaments, and when we assess where Finland today is, the government must have the humility to understand that these achievements have come as a result of a severe political distortion. National pension, maternity kit, maternity clinics, comprehensive school — all of these contributions have been subjects of political resistance, which have also been opposed. Eli calls for political leadership to build a welfare state and see that the story of education and equality and inclusion is the story of Finland. And, Minister Orpo, put your hand to the heart: your party's coalition in the '70s was opposed to elementary school,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u201	Mr President! The testimony of outsiders from today's Finland is at least good, and we must of course be satisfied with it, and it is also good to admit that the change has taken place, employment has improved and so on, but at the same time, of course, we must be sensitive to all the phenomena of poverty and exclusion that always exist, even when things are going well, and especially when things are going well. There is always a need for justice. It's an eternal struggle between us and elsewhere. Secondly, Minister Orpo spoke on the regional urban programme. It is a positive announcement, and we must hope that it will also have substance. It can be started by not cutting off the places for starting vocational training, at least where there is a need for skilled labour, as is the case in Upper Savo, among others. Thirdly, let us remember what the students of the Kuopion Lyseo said in a sentence in the Declaration of Independence: "No one needs to be afraid or lonely." That is a goal for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u202	President! There are a number of intermediate issues on the annual clock of parliamentary work, and it inevitably comes to mind that this is a cyclic intermediate issue that has to be done to ensure that the quota for the interim issue is sufficient. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u203	Mr President! When I explained the time for dealing with this interim issue here in Parliament, I asked my Facebook pages and emails to contact me about what this inequality in Finland means in the moment, what kind of phenomena it has. I received a total of 370 e-mails related to this development of inequality, and on Facebook a hundred public estimates of what is happening in real life — from Maire Mikkeli, a little under 1,000 a month pension, EUR 630 rent, after all the compulsory expenses 30 euros per month for food available. Mr Orpo, I think it is important not to be arrogant here, not to underestimate this problem, not to treat this issue as if away from rejecting that such a problem would not exist. We have poor people in Finland. We have the development of inequality in Finland. It is up to the government to correct these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u204	Mr President! It is quite right that inequality is being discussed and the situation in which many people are currently in Finland. That's right. But it is not right to generalise this phenomenon and the opposition to paint white black all the time and fuel fear and a dark future. If we look at Statistics Finland’s measurements and results, the proportion of low incomes measuring poverty has fallen since 2008. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u205	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, under the leadership of Antti Rinte, taxes were tightened, there were 100,000 new unemployed. The central government shares of municipalities were cut very severely,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u208	Mr President! Mr Kivelä has now thrown a lot of heat at us in underestimating this intermediate issue as a question of quota interval, that is to say, it is the worst understatement that I have ever heard in this Chamber. It is very important — Mr Jokinen here says about the Group of the European People's Party that it is legitimate to discuss this issue and that it is important. That does not mean — which is good, that we have an increase in employment, but it does not make the poor family and the young people and children feel any comfort. If you’re doing better next door, it doesn’t contribute to poverty and inequality. It's the government's job to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u209	Mr President! It was said from the cabinet box that what the government has done to ensure that this inequality has arisen. A few comments I wrote to myself: Children have been divided and unequaled by the government since birth, depending on whether the child was born to an unemployed or working family. Children of an unemployed family are restricted to the right to early childhood education. It is also weaker in quality than for those in work. The government has also abolished the youth guarantee for young people. Secondary education is no longer taken for granted by everyone because of its fee. The government has increased customer fees by 30 per cent. This affects people with low incomes and sick people in particular. The government has made systematic cuts to primary benefits, resulting in people being forced into last resort income support. This is how the government has tied poor people to poverty. The government also punishes the long-term unemployed and the other unemployed with lashes and supports people with good income through tax breaks. Here are some comments that the government has made during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u210	Mr President! There are many things that have broken in the ear in this debate, but when the SDP’s group speaker A Kymäläinen there a short while ago spouted to say that the previous government did not cut off the services,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u211	Mr President! During the last government term, a youth guarantee came, basic security was increased, housing allowance was increased and the old-age service law was decided, among other things:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u216	Mr President! Much has been said here about income support, drifting into income support and poverty, inequality. From my own life, I can tell you that there were ten children in that cottage and the family had to rely on income support. Even as a young man, I once had to rely on income support. In my opinion, income support is always the last chance to survive so that you get food and clothing. When you look at how you moved on from it, the job was the one that then solved and went out to bring that positive cycle. This is why it is important that as many people as possible get away with the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u217	At this stage, I will give the floor to Mr Mikkonen and then to the ministers for short speeches. More or less all ministers have asked to speak. It is not possible for everyone to speak for many minutes. If I understand correctly, then Minister Orpo now wants to use the first of the ministerial box. — — — — But before that, as agreed, Mr Mikkonen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u218	Mr President! As has been said here, Finland is a great country in many places, Finland has been built by working together for generations. But the concern we have in this Chamber today is how we hold on to that fine legacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u223	Now, Minister Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u224	Mr President! Neither I nor anyone else in this box has claimed that there is no poverty and inequality in Finland, no one. We acknowledge that, we have exactly the same view. But then maybe not what's the way. You seem to have the easy solution of sharing more money, but we're leaving in the order that we have to get that money first.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u227	Mr President! The previous government, the Katainen government — the Christian Democrats were involved in it — was born in the midst of a recession, and yet that government raised basic security by EUR 100, but the present government of the upswing does not want to intervene in the level of basic security except by cutting the indexes and finally freezing them. At the moment, when we are experiencing a boom, some Finns, through wage increases and general economic growth, will benefit from it, but a large proportion of Finns, including families with children and many pensioners, have fallen into a situation where they are unable to benefit from this economic growth because of index cuts in basic benefits and their freezes. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo: are you prepared, however, to ensure that these groups of people living on the basis of basic benefits are also able to benefit from this upturn? Are you prepared to dismantle these index freezes and cuts? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u228	Mr President! Congressman Zyskowicz for this historylessness: The countries identified here are Sweden, Norway, Finland. Do you know what these countries have in common? The nations of the world look with envy upon them. They all have a strong and powerful social democracy and a trade union movement that has built a wonderful society. The idea of a folk home developed into a welfare society. But then this focus is on steak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u229	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen's argument that services were not cut during the last parliamentary term is still to be addressed. In the last parliamentary term, nothing else was cut except the basic services of municipalities. Cumulative cutting decisions in 2012-2017 amounted to EUR 7 billion and focused on primary schools, early childhood education, social services and elderly services. In 2015, the cuts in basic municipal services amounted to approximately EUR 1.5 billion, a total of 30,000 doctors, nurses, local nurses, teachers, cleaners, cooks and so on. In 2014, there were 15,000 lay-off staff in the municipal sector, and in addition, the major municipal project brought down the social welfare reform. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u230	Mr President! It is very important that employment is now growing and that more jobs are being created, that the fruits of economic growth are being produced, but they are now very unequally, unjustly divided. Mr Orpo, the chairman of the Assembly, said just now in his own speech that once growth is strong, we will be able to afford to take care of the poor. That is what he said. In fact, this society can afford to take care of all the poorest people without economic growth, even in these circumstances, in the best country in the world — is it not, Prime Minister Sipilä? The fact is that you have given tax reductions of hundreds of millions of euros to rich, well-off people, people with good income. You have given the forest gift reductions, you have reduced the taxation of millions of inheritances, you have given the entrepreneurship deduction to this group. You have been able to make a good policy for the well-off and rich, but now do the good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u231	Irade the Talman! When we talk about inequality and mention social reform, we must also recognise that, in its present form, this reform is leading to increasing inequality. If the regional reform is mentioned again, it must be said that if it cuts the competitiveness of growth centres, it is not what we need, or less inequality. The subjective right to day care and its limitation was also mentioned here. At the time, it was justified on economic grounds. We knew the problems, but it was an economic decision. Now we also know that there has been no financial savings — the Association of Local and Regional Authorities estimates that 10 million perhaps if we are optimistic. Now that this main criterion is gone and it is known that it is problematic precisely from the point of view of inequality, should we not reconsider this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u232	I will give the ministers brief answers. First Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u233	Mr President! The fact that no government starts off on an empty table was very clear to me in this debate. The Finnish welfare state, the welfare society, is developing piece by piece. It is excellent that there have also been things that have been taken forward since the last government. For example, the Social Welfare Act has not yet come up, which has been a significant improvement in services, particularly for vulnerable people. But then the other side of not leaving the empty table is that there was a social welfare reform and there were 100,000 more unemployed in hand. [Department : Yes! ] On these grounds, the government made its own choices so that, in the name of generation policy, debt is not left to the next governments or to the children of the future. [KristaKiuru’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u234	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u235	Mr President! I am not entirely convinced that this debate in this Chamber today has done honour and justice to 100-year-old Finland. We must have the heart in Finland to take care of the welfare society, the security networks, equal opportunities, and we all know that this is best done when we have the highest possible employment rate and strong, well-managed public finances, and the government has invested in these matters. In addition to this, we must ensure that we respect the work of past generations also in reforming the structures of our society and also the education system. The world is changing faster than ever. This requires education and training to meet these new skills needs. It calls for equal opportunities in a new world. Children come from more diverse backgrounds. Let's turn our eyes to earlier years. Why is none of you here worried about children who do not participate in early childhood education at all? We have the lowest participation rates in early childhood education throughout the OECD field, in this civilized Western world. By this government, unlike during the last term of government, payments are already being reduced for the second time: 6,700 families will be eligible for free early childhood education next year. [KristaKiuru’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u236	And now let's continue with the debate, and then Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u237	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz recalled in this room his own childhood in a rental apartment in Helsinki. I can tell you that I, too, have lived with my family in a rental unit in Helsinki, and that was the art of the '90s. And I can also tell you that even today there are still families in Finland who live in small rental apartments, including rental apartments — welcome to today's Finland. For many families, the reality is that there is really little money available, and these government cuts, which have been very hard on families with children, students, pensioners and many other groups that are already low incomes, really do. And the question we are dealing with here is that, while this government is cutting off the most deprived, it can afford to give tax relief of hundreds of millions of euros to the most wealthy and the most prosperous in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u238	Mr President! I must say that I too am somewhat disturbed by Mr Kymäläinen's saying that the services were not cut during the last parliamentary term, and I refer to Mr Paloniemi's speech, in which he said that in the last parliamentary term almost EUR 7 billion was cut out of the state transfers of municipalities. Every year you cut off, and all these cuts in the state's share are directed specifically at people's basic services, social and health care services, school services, early childhood education, elderly services and so on. So do we have a difference of opinion, do you not, in some way, appreciate the basic services provided by the municipalities to the people, or why are you passing this massive state-owned cut?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u239	Mr President! Our job is to ensure that in 100 years' time there will be less inequality in Finland than there is today. Unfortunately, however, many developments are currently leading to an increase in inequality. The direction of development is wrong, and it is precisely the direction of development that we, today's decision-makers, are responsible for for for future generations. Mr President! The government has increased inequality with its own cuts. The cuts made by the government to the low-income have not been compulsory; they have been a choice. There has been a margin for distribution, but the allocation resource has been used for tax reductions, which mainly target high incomes. With its own policy, the government has increased inequality and income differentials, and the trend has not changed now, even though the economy has started to grow. Inequality and poverty are not automatically reduced, but will and action are needed, and the question now is whether or not:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u240	Mr President! It is great that we have at least one thing on which we will all agree, and that is that it is really important to stop the development of inequalities. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u241	Mr President! Yes, desire is not enough when government acts lead in many ways in a different direction and inequality increases. What does it help to reduce early childhood education fees, while reducing quality at the same time: child groups are huge and the right to early childhood education is limited. What can it do for you to be self-righteous about the meaning of education, while at the same time you have made massive cuts in education? Why, for example, is the Social Democrats' proposal to extend compulsory education to the entire upper secondary level not taken seriously, even if this could prevent exclusion and inequality and get people to work? During the last term of the government, raising compulsory education age fell on the question of the cost of free education, but in the longer term it will be much cheaper to keep all people involved in education and thus in working life. Why isn't this good enough for you? Otherwise, this Juho Saari estimated last week that Finns no longer feel in the same boat: 60% of people regard inequality as a key factor in insecurity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u242	Mr President! The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has stressed the importance of a high employment rate on several occasions, and this view and vision are easy to share. Work and entrepreneurship form the backbone of our society, and Finnish work and employees must definitely continue to be defended here in Parliament. In the Group statement of the Finns Party, the representative Tavio made it very clear that our group's position was in favour of the Finnish employee. We are the only opposition party opposed to the abolition of the availability of labour from outside the EU and the EEA. The impact of waiving access has been greatly underestimated in the public domain. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u243	Reply, Mr Keränen, followed by Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u244	Mr President! This increase in income differentials has been highlighted in a number of speeches. Do you know how much the increase in income differentials has been during this reign? [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u245	Secretary Lindström, two minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u246	Mr President! I will only comment on this one issue, which was called for in the Group speech of the Finns Party and which Mr Savio has just drawn attention to: when is the government going to turn immigration policy into a work-related one? This is a question for which I am grateful, in fact, that you asked, because then I will be able to explain one of the reasons why I left the group. This immigration policy is already work-related. We have this Talent Boost action programme to attract experts here to Finland. We have the Koto-SIB experiment, which is being carried out to speed up the employment of immigrants and not financed by public funds. If and when it continues to appear in the programme of the Finns Party that the party is positive about work-related immigration, then I would like to know what it should be like to make it right. What is the true position of the modern Finnish Party on integration, among other things? [Li Andersson's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u247	Mr. Speaker! There has been talk here of static calculations and once again it has been repeated that, of course, you cannot be hungry. But wake up government parties, welcome to reality! I had a large number of Pirkanese pensioners here in Parliament today as a guest, and they had seen this article in Aamulehti entitled "The Board turned income differentials into growth" and said that it will show up. It appears in the purse, and they wondered very much about this development. We have now heard that everything is excellent and everything is great, as the government says. But apparently this was not the case just in the summer, because then the chairman of the central parliamentary group called for a number of measures to reduce pension poverty. I had hope, but there was no such thing as this. The small earnings-related pension was completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u248	Mr President! I assumed that the government would be asked, but the government ministers apparently want to discuss in public why they have defected from the party. However, I share the views of the Finns: We believe that illegal immigration, for example, should not be promoted. In our alternative budget, we would not, among other things, increase the return money for illegal immigrants, because even Finns do not receive the money to comply with the court's judgments. Nor do we want to increase the attraction of coming to Finland. That is why, among other things, we criticise Helsinki's decision. We don't want us to be the world's social services office. If these are difficult questions for you, Mr Lindström, it is good that you have left. I don't know what you were hoping for, what you were thinking. Of course, these could have been mentioned sometimes in the parliamentary group. But if you want to keep this up, we can take the coffee side. I think it's pretty stupid for you to bring it up here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u249	Mr President! In fact, we are talking here about the issue of inequality, not just income differences, for example. In this question, the main focus is on Finland’s direction, what is happening in society. Will human inequality begin to grow with small signals? This is a genuine concern and a serious question. Mr President! I myself am most concerned about those children and young people who are not the strongest and brightest, those who do not get support from home for studying and coping with life, and those who do not have their own home, even that studio apartment. The government says it is opposed to concentrating education and reforming the entire education system. However, the massive cut-off line is leading to the fact that, for example, the upper secondary education network is actually becoming less thin and unequal in the eyes of our young people in terms of availability.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u250	Mr President! You who ask such a question, yes, you know this great picture: In fact, nothing happened in Finland after they clearly rose when Lipponen's government brought about rapid economic growth. Since then, there's been nothing but a slight vibration. Why don't you ask Markus Jänt? The slightest color that has now been seen in the direction of increasing income differentials and which may continue in the coming years is explained by two factors: growth on the one hand. There is no such economic growth which, from the outset, would divide the fruits of growth quite evenly. And then the other thing is that I do not think we should apologize for the slight changes that have been made to try to make work more profitable. It's been a real policy. As the wisest economic thinker in the Greens, Antero Vartia, says, "Slighter income differences would mean greater incentive problems. If we want to tackle incentive problems, there must be income differences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u251	Mr President! The main issue for the government should be how to combat poverty that lurks in the shadows of the welfare society. What is the government doing today? The government cuts off pensioners, students, families with children, unemployed people. Why do we have hundreds of meters of bread lines in Finland today, as we had yesterday? Why do we need Hurst's work of mercy so people can get along in their everyday lives? Why do people have to choose between bread and medicine? These are the silent signals that Mr Filatovk spoke about earlier here. At the same time as the government has cut EUR 4 billion, it has distributed EUR 2 billion to the good people. Manna has been enough to be distributed in the form of a forest gift reduction, a entrepreneurship reduction, a pharmacist's deduction and a million-dollar inheritances. During the last parliamentary term, income differentials decreased, although more adjustments were made than now, and at the same time, basic security could be increased by EUR 100.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u252	Mr President! It has been said that the country can also be served by the opposition, and constructive proposals will be welcomed. But I find it really sad that this debate, which this last hour has at least gone to, is not something to look forward to. Do you know that the feeling of outsiders can be truly overwhelming and paralyzing? I think it is really unfair for the opposition to give the impression that the government would leave some of the citizens out of their own care. That's definitely not true. Controversy is one of the worst phenomena in Finland, and unfortunately in this reality of the world, where all of this is directly transmitted to outside society, we are not building this Finland in the second century, a good opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u253	Mr President! Yes, the criticism is even smaller in the parliament than within the centre’s own team. I believe that even at Aho's time there was no such bad income distribution policy. Should I be worried? It's a question of the day. Two thirds of Finns are concerned that differences in income and wealth are increasing. Are they wrong? Today's question is, as Petteri Orpo said here as Minister of Finance, that when we can afford it, we will be dealing with stopping inequality and combating poverty. This is the wrong policy, that is what we have tried to prove. You started by trying to make a $4 billion adjustment, which remained at 3.5 billion. After that, there was a divisional hazard. You said that, in order to boost purchasing power, you want to ensure that, of course, as the Coalition Party wishes, tax reductions are made. It was done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u254	Mr President! The SDP has turned out to be quite a gloomy master painter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u257	Madam Speaker! It is true that the theme of this intermediate issue is important. These are huge social problems and challenges, and these must be discussed, we must respond to them, but it is unreasonable to pass these questions on to this government and to stand up to it. Representative Mr Laukkanen has made one point: that 22 years ago this development of ideological inequality has begun. I don't know how to locate this exactly, but I'm sure there have been signs all the way. I would like us to go beyond the government—oppositional boundaries, instead of this kind of ruckus—not into it, we would really go out looking for a way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u258	Mr President! It does not diminish the value of Finland that inequality is discussed. [Left: On the contrary!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u259	At this stage in the debate, I will give answers to the representatives of Kankaanniemi, Ala-Nissilä and Suutari, and then to the group speaker of the group who asked the question, Mr Rinte, and then to the Finance Minister for 3 minutes, preferably on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u260	Mr President! I would like to say that the immigration policy of Finns has never changed at any time this year. It's what we've had and still has. I don't know about those who have left the ranks, what their line is. We therefore stress the need for work-related immigration, which is needed in some areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u263	We are living in a time of very rapid change, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen said. This is a time of concentration. Also, a strong increase in income differentials in the world is inherent in this development. Finland has done surprisingly well. I read this 28-minute interim issue that was read here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u268	Mr President! Inequality is not stopped, for example, by the main opposition party's proposal, i.e. by stepping up the tax progression, increasing capital income taxation, abolishing the entrepreneurial tax deduction and tightening dividend taxation. They cause unemployment. In accordance with the Government Programme, measures to create conditions for new jobs will combat inequality, reward hard work and allow risk-taking without fear of social safety networks being betrayed. The saying of the late Outi Ojala was "The best friend is a strong state economy". In a free market economy, the basis for strong government finances is as low, predictable and broad a tax base as possible, where growth also belongs to its breeders, entrepreneurs, risk-takers and ordinary, hard-working workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u269	Mr President! We need to succeed in Finland, and it is important that we have successful companies and successful entrepreneurs, but we also need to ensure that no one is left behind all the time. Now, in this situation, we see that there have been no proper impact assessments of the various proposals during this regime, and that is why we are in a situation where all the poorest, those who need the most support, have also been taken away. And now, for example, I am talking about pensioners with limited means who have now been in a situation where, for example, they have contributed to the increase in the own resources of medicines and the increase in customer fees and the freezing of indexes. That is why this has not been a good policy. But, Mr President, I am concerned and we in the RKP are also concerned about this inequality of regions, the future inequality of regions, in this reform of social security. Why are not all provinces given the same rights? We don't want the A and B provinces here. Everyone should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u270	And even before Mr Rinnetta, I think he agreed that Mr Mattila would speak on the spot for one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u271	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. This is where Mr Henriksson asked about the relationship between child benefit and income support. Of course, many other social benefits affect basic income support, so it would certainly have to be considered as part of the overall reform of social security. As such, hardly anyone has any objection to considering the amount of child benefit as part of the well-being of families with children, and especially in terms of the poverty of families with children, but indeed the law on income support at the moment says so. Indeed, this government did not start at the time of the boom but has started in a very challenging economic situation. The question may be asked: If debt is taken at the time of the boom, what will happen at the time of the fall? I would also like to remind you of the good projects that have continued over the years of government, including those with the ability to work part time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u272	Mr President! 3.5 billion cuts from poor people: unemployed, students, families with children, pensioners. EUR 2 billion in tax reductions, mainly for the rich: reduction in forest income, reduction of taxes on millions of inheritances and entrepreneurial deductions. It is no wonder that in the interview with Finland, more than half of the members of the party council who responded to the questionnaire say that this policy is too right-wing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u276	And now to the Minister for 3 minutes, and then before 7 p.m., to the representatives of Andersson, Heinonen and Kalli, at least these. Now the Minister has the floor, for example, on the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u277	Mr President! Firstly, however, I must thank the opposition for the fact that this important debate took place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u282	Mr President! I think it is intellectually dishonest of the Minister of Finance to say that we cannot afford it. In this regard, Minister Saarikko said earlier that when it comes to inequality, it is a question of whether people have the feeling that I belong to them and how the government has actually spent the money — 1.5 billion on tax cuts, 70 million on the reduction of early childhood education contributions, which has been referred to here on several occasions, a billion on the competitiveness pact — then the question of what a low-income pensioner, an unemployed person or student has received for this money, if there is no wage income or if there is such a low income that it has already been included in this zero-payment category in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I have still made the following comments here: if the debate could be sufficient after these, let us see if it is enough: representatives of Heinonen, Kalle, Filatov, Kiviranta, Mäkisalo-Ropponen. And if absolutely necessary, then one can still think of a small extension.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u287	Mr President! This is an economic policy that the opposition has accused of being an economic policy for the whole, and it seems to be working: the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling. During the last parliamentary term, the SDP only stared at the income distribution effects, and at the same time 100,000 new unemployed people came into the country. I wasn't interested at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u289	Mr President! This economic policy is based on the Government Programme of Prime Minister Sipilä. With regard to this tax policy, which has been criticised here, I would now like to remind you that the 2015 financial statements show that tax revenue was just under EUR 40 billion and the current budget predicts that tax revenue in 2018 will amount to EUR 44 billion, which is a 10% improvement at this stage in this parliamentary term. Everyone well knows that transfers and opportunities for disadvantaged people depend entirely on the state's ability to collect tax revenue. This has made it possible for Finland to no longer become indebted in the way it was before. There is no point in blaming this tax policy because this tax policy, which is being implemented, is producing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u290	Mr President! When I listen to this debate, I have to say it, unfortunately, that Finland is just as bad a country as its weakest link is. In this country we have nearly one fifth of the population living below the poverty line, 120,000 children living in poverty, 70,000 young people who have been excluded. I know, Minister Orpo, that you will answer that you have reduced the tax on wages. It's true. But are you aware that it does not affect the poorest? They don't make enough money to get some benefit out of it. Instead, they are affected by the fact that unemployment is being punished. Just because you're looking for a job doesn't mean you can't get a job, reduce benefits, withdraw money. Another thing that should be remembered, too, is that when child allowances are paid in this country, in the poorest families, where income support is provided, income support is reduced by the amount of child benefits, that is to say, children support their parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u291	Mr President! It is disconcerting that the Greens, in the mid-term text, are criticising the government for the deepening of regional inequality, even though it is the Greens who are exclusively concentrated in the major cities and who have forgotten the rest of the country. The Government is consistent in taking into account the dynamic neighbourhoods, both in combating the disadvantages of negative structural change and in making full use of positive structural change. On the other hand, the Greens in their own alternative budget have completely forgotten, for example, the facilitation of work-related mobility and have called for, among other things, a substantial reduction in kilometric compensation. Such measures only exacerbate regional segregation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u292	Mr President! Investing in young people and children is the most important future investment we can do. Unfortunately, this government is taking children out of the future. In the long run, these savings will be very expensive. Poverty affects more than 100,000 children in Finland, and poverty in the child's life is not only a lack of wealth, it is also an externality and a delicate cycle of incompetence. Particularly worrying is the fact that the government's decisions to restrict subjective day care rights and increase group sizes have resulted in early childhood education no longer protecting against inequalities as it did in the past. It is also sad that, in all these decisions, the government, despite its promises, has failed to carry out comprehensive child impact assessments. My question is: when does the government intend to deliver on this promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u293	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about low incomes. As I said in my group statement, the Assembly does not dispute the importance of this issue, but the fact that this inequality has exploded over two years and precisely during this parliamentary term. Who's on low incomes? According to Statistics Finland, around 38 per cent of the unemployed are low incomes, about 30 per cent of students, 14 entrepreneurs, 13 pensioners and 1 per cent of employees. So the fact that people are able to work is one of the most impressive ways to put an end to this low income for man and the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u294	Mr President! We are talking about inequality, and that is much more than that amount of money. Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that we are not at all concerned here in the opposition about children who are completely out of day care. How many of these children will be covered by the right to day care through the restriction of subjective care? I don't think any of them. The government has cut out of education. At each level of education, the government has saved just where the result would be best, where the greatest potential would be: children, young people, school, learning. I will return to your next year's budget. In 2018, the split effects are considered to be minus EUR 39 for the unemployed and for the well-earned you will give that EUR 400 as tax reductions. I ask again: how does this eliminate inequality? Is this your idea of justice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u295	At this point, I would like to add the following: representatives of Meri, Andersson, Alako-Kahiluoto, Zyskowicz and Filatov. Then the Minister's reply and then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u296	Mr President! My ear is a little upset here about the fact that when the restriction of subjective day care rights came in for 20 hours, the child protection has been removed, as if it were terrible for them to be there at home. However, let us remember, for example, the children’s psychiatrists ’ messages that home is the best place for a small child if there is nothing to worry about. At least we don't tell people that a child isn't safe at home. That's kind of disturbing. However, I would have asked Minister Orpo about these ideas of our alternative budget. At some point you announced that you had not had time to get to know it, but I hope you have now. We have proposals, for example, to make pharmaceutical costs more affordable and to target pensioners and low-income tax deductions on the lowest incomes and average incomes. I myself received a message from a lady in the market that sometimes talk about us middle-incomers, always talking about one or the other. He hoped that he too, as a middle-income pensioner, would be spoken of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u297	Mr President! Yes, this debate has been valuable, because it has already reached the point where the group speaker in the Assembly admits that the income gap has indeed increased. Of course, this change is not big enough for the entire coalition to be interested in it. Perhaps we will get an answer this evening as to how much the income gap needs to increase, so that this is a problem for the representatives of the coalition, which is the change in the Gini coefficient that is so great for you that you are genuinely beginning to reflect on the direction of your policy and the potential need for it. I think quite a few representatives here and quite a few citizens would be interested in hearing the answer to that question. Mr President! Some speakers have also called for concrete, constructive proposals on what can be done to reduce inequalities. One very concrete way is to reduce the cost of social welfare and health care. Health inequalities in Finland have remained relatively high. Last year, 400,000 social welfare and health care customer fees went into enforcement. According to the Left Alliance calculations, for example, the abolition of a medical visit to a health centre in the whole country would cost only 40 million. It is a very small sum compared to what this government has spent on, for example, these tax reductions that favour high incomes. So there would be alternatives, yes, if you had a genuine interest in tackling this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u298	Mr President! It is not possible to justify cutting basic security by employment, because cutting basic security and housing allowance drives people to the income support hatch. Pushing people from housing support and basic security to income support increases barriers to work, as income support does not have the same safety component of EUR 300 as housing support. For this reason, it is not easy to enter the labour market from income support, which the government should note when making these decisions. It would not be good if social policy were to blow up the employment targets, as is the case with government policy. The question is: why does the government close its ears to poverty researchers and increase the number of people dependent on income support? Poverty has increased in recent years, especially in cities where living is expensive, and the cost of living in cities is the most significant poverty after unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u299	Mr President! Congressman Marin, show me that family of four that lives in a studio. The second is that we have the poor: we always have the poor as long as poverty is rightly measured as relative poverty. Mr Andersson, you asked how it would help pensioners to improve employment. Representative Andersson, pensioners' pensions and their services, social services, health services, all services are ultimately based on work. Then, Mr Andersson, you asked how the Coalition Party reacted to the differences in income. This has become very clear in the debate. However, there are also justified differences in income. He who rises at six o’clock in the morning and goes to the cashier of Aleppa must earn more than he who does not rise or go.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u300	Mr President! It is good that Minister Orpo is paying attention to this increase in income support expenditure, but that explanation can be found in your proposals which you have brought here to Parliament. I always have the habit of looking first at their economic impact, whether labour policy laws or social policy laws. Unfortunately, too many of the laws you have brought say that income support expenditure will increase. Now, though, lastly, this active model, which has been called unequal by almost all experts and which tells us that people do not have equal opportunities to meet the conditions of that law, also increases income support expenditure. From the point of view of employment, this is very problematic, because when you move from unemployment benefit to income support expenditure, the threshold for employment will rise, and this should seriously worry you. That's why I hope you're really going to do that. The second study I am hoping for is where we have gone with our long-term unemployed. They haven't employed 20,000 of them. They've left.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u301	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u302	Mr President! On one occasion, I made a closing statement and stopped quoting its representative, Mrs Rinte, but I think we can get through this. — First of all, these criteria: Finland has the fourth highest tax rate in the world, according to an OECD survey on the basis of the 2016 tax data. In addition, we still have the third least relative number of poor OECD countries. We are balancing income differences with taxes and benefits right among the top countries in this country. We have a very high rate of progressive taxation. So, for us, this structure is really good and reducing income differentials. And again: the government's actions and decisions do not significantly increase the income gap in Finland, not in a statistically significant way, but they also do not remove it, Mr Andersson, that I and the government do not understand that there are low incomes and underprivileged interests in Finland. But, Mr Andersson, yes, the money must be obtained from somewhere and the debt must be folded, and this is our primary path, and it is the same road that you, Mr Rinne, and your party drove very elegantly in the last government. Work primarily so that you can afford to care for people — so that you can afford to care for people — but caring for people is not just a transfer of income, but a good welfare society with equal services that give you equal opportunities to live. It leaves there from family services, it leaves early childhood education, comprehensive school in the whole chain. It requires good employment services, social and health services. All these things have been built together, and it is now up to this government to maintain them, and we will certainly do everything we can to ensure that these services work, first of all, this foundation of our welfare society, and that we can continue to afford to sustain them — and will continue to afford to sustain them. This is the fundamental principles that have always been shared in Finland, and that is why I believe that this debate has shown nothing new but, in principle, we agree on almost everything, only on the means to disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u303	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u304	President! In his speech, Congressman Kymäläinen referred to yesterday’s Fourth of July service. It was not Archbishop Mäkinen who, in his sermon, would have said these clever words that the economy should be for man and not for man's economy, but it came from the altar from the mouth of the doomsman Poutiainen. But in any case this has been going on for a long time, it seems that all human life must be subjected to the altar of the economy and that the omnipotence of the economy is self-intentional, under which all human life should be submissive, of course, in such a way that a functioning economy secures bread, and where there is a functioning economy, fair, democratic decision-making and social justice will also be realized. However, as the Minister for Finance, Orpo, for example, rightly said in his reply to the interim question, our problem is a lack of faith in the future and a lack of vision. There are indicators where Finland is at the forefront of well-being, happiness, equality, education and training opportunities. This line is huge. But still, there are shadows in paradise. If GDP grows soon, it won't be as easy in the eagle. By Kot, I mean the people's happiness balance. There are unfortunate reverse sides of the medal in the nation's record of happiness. We have a lot of people who are not doing well, and in that sense this interim issue has been justified. Always these issues of social justice, strengthening the faith of the future, reducing the lack of vision must be discussed in an open spirit. But, as I have already said in my debate, it is unreasonable to blame all of this on the present government. Every government in its turn is a miserable government, but even this government has not been able, in two years' time, to scrap all the welfare society built on equality for decades. Even this government is not capable of such a reverse winter war miracle. We are doing better, and it is important that, in the future, perhaps when something is to be shared, there should be a fair distribution. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u305	Mr President! There has been a lively debate here today and good things have come up and a lot of accusations have been made and perhaps those responsible have been sought. You always wonder, of course, that at the other end of the screen people are looking at these and I'm sure they're waiting for the answers that didn't come so far from the ministerial box, not concrete to them, for example, what I said about the ideas of the Finns. We also have, Minister Orpo, a counterpart, for example, to these tax reductions for our pensioners and those on low incomes and to moderate the cost of medicines. We have applied for a counterpart to them, for example, on the capital duty on large foundations and associations and on the repayment of the property tax, so that it does not apply to their own housing and only concerns the assets of more than half a million. That'll give us the match. These would seem to me to be fair solutions, but they are not wanted to be heard. I hope that Minister Orpo will now read that option of ours. [Mister Orponölläministeriö Box ] Yesterday I received quite a lot of feedback on my Facebook pages about "you were at Linna's party and we were in the bread queue", and here a few representatives brought it up. I felt bad about it. I loved celebrating Finland’s independence, and I remembered Finland’s wars and my grandparents and my mother, who came from Karelia, and many things and listened to patriotic music, had a little bit on the lens, but I felt really bad when I thought that there were really few people in the food line and I was privileged, I went to the hairdresser and makeup and ate a lot of food. Somehow I think we should improve on this. I was watching that interview with Heikki Hurst where he said that maybe we will never get — and it is probably not possible that there is not a single person who might be looking for support and help, but he said that if we could even get half of these queues out of here. He told me that the number of people in food queues has multiplied. On each food queue day there are about 2,700 people in the queues in Helsinki, while about 10 years ago there were between two and three hundred people there. They're terrible differences. He also talked about how, for example, the cost of living in the capital region has risen. And to that end, for example, we had the model of housing in our alternative budget and we applied for a reduction in the electricity tax and a reduction in the fuel oil tax, precisely because we are thinking about these housing costs. Although some saw this as just related to climate change, such things could always be put in such loopholes — no loophole now is probably a bad word, but right holes in such a way that they would not apply to such things as households and other things. Not everyone can afford those energy renovations. I've done it myself, and it's really expensive. For example, I switched from oil heating to geothermal, and no small pensioner does. I took out a bank loan for that too, and there was almost $20,000 in the account. Even if it does get a household allowance, it will not save the situation. During the day, a bit of attention was paid to the fact that when the government has accomplished something good, it is precisely because of this group, and when there was something bad, the Finns of Finland were already digging there many years ago, what we have recorded in the government program. At the time of the parliamentary elections, all the parties said that the economy was in bad shape and that they liked something. Of course, we joined in. I just feel like we have not left this budget book this autumn. Now we are constantly trying to get us involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u306	Mr President! "I hate what it's gonna be like when it comes to production." "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, "Trying to find the purpose and the sense of getting something from I would like to be able to do something that would give me some feeling of being satisfied with existence." These were direct quotes from a recent study of the Youth Research Network, which gathered the views of young people outside work and education on the future. These quotes well reflect what inequality and exclusion are in practice. Exclusion is a feeling of outsiderism and lack of vision; a lack of faith that can sometimes be better; small everyday dreams that are seen to be impossible. Mr President! For a long time, Finland has been a country in which anyone, regardless of their background, can become anything. Land of opportunity. A country where many have a good chance of fulfilling themselves and their dreams, big and small. Our resources are equality and trust that hold society together. However, there are clear indications in Finland that the number of young adults at risk of exclusion is increasing. According to an OECD study, as many as one-fifth of Finnish men aged 20 to 24 are unemployed and do not participate in education. The share of young people not in education and working life has increased in Finland since 2011. Mental health problems are also often found in the background. Displacement and indiscretion threaten to accumulate and deepen. The growth of inequality and nausea not only puts individuals themselves but also society as a whole at risk of problems. Exclusion and lack of participation also contribute to radicalisation and insecurity. Inequality is also a key security threat for all of us. Inequality is also easily transmitted from one generation to the next, creating spirals of disadvantage that are difficult to break. We need a systematic policy to keep everything involved. In our alternative budget, we Greens highlighted a number of ways to reduce inequality. Recent cuts in social security and index freezes have severe consequences for the most vulnerable Finns. We must ensure that the level of social security is adequate. For example, the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has criticised the minimum level of social security benefits in Finland as insufficient for a long time. In addition to improving the level of social security, incentives should be firmly dismantled and bolder steps taken, for example, towards basic income. Finland’s success rests on a high level of expertise. It is important to invest in early childhood education in order to address children's inequalities and the deterioration of learning outcomes rapidly. High-quality, accessible education is not a matter of course, but must be taken care of continuously and at all levels. Education must be genuinely free of charge so that family background does not become a threshold in the way of studies. Mr President! Instead of easy solutions, we need long-term work and preferably cooperation. When we take decisions, we should assess them better from the point of view of reducing inequality. It is good that efforts are being made to improve the youth guarantee, for example, and that the Prime Minister has now convened parliamentary parties for work against inequality. But reducing inequality will also require more resources. We can't afford to let anyone fall. Let's keep everyone on board. Let's do it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u307	Mr President! The government, which is no longer here today, criticised the issue of the opposition in the past, but there are two camps in this area, because part of the opposition is not involved in this issue. In a group statement by our group, Mr Henriksson explained quite well why our group has left out of this issue. The picture is very much common, but our toolbox has different tools. Perhaps the main difference is that of taxation, and in particular that of income tax, which we would like to reduce more than the government's own budget proposal, and even in a way that gives all income recipients more money in hand, because we believe that this is the right line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u310	Mr President! It was nice listening to Mr. Kymäläinen's opening remarks. It was a very clever quarter-hour summary of 2.5-year survey hours. But, Mr President, when dealing with this inequality, we must remember where the Sipilä government started. The government debt rate was rather high and economic growth below zero. If that line had been extended, the welfare state would soon have been able to say goodbye. The Government launched Finland with the goal of rehabilitation. There have been many ways of doing this, and I cannot deny it even to myself that some cuts to social benefits, for example, have been severe and painful. However, the means chosen for entrepreneurship and employment have been bitten and debt has slowed down considerably. The economy is growing at a rate of 3% per year. Today, there are tens of thousands more employed than a year ago, thereby increasing tax revenues. Mr President! Of course, the most important thing is not how the treasury manages. The purpose of the state treasury is that the citizens are doing well, and when growth comes, it must then be able to distribute it correctly, as Minister Orpo said in the middle of the debate. At the first stage, however, growth must be visible to the most disadvantaged, and that is what it is, Mr President. I would like to list just a few of the reforms that have at least been made and are being made. The guarantee pension has been increased. The lowest treatment allowance is being increased. The minimum daily allowance is on the way. Entrepreneurs' days of ownership in the event of illness have been reduced and reduced. A single parent raise is on its way to the child's side. The removal of early childhood education contributions from the lowest incomes has been done. For low incomes and guaranteed pensioners, the Yle-tax has been abolished. The housing allowance for pensioners has been increased by an increase in the maximum housing expenditure. Upper secondary students, aged 18 to 19, will no longer be affected by parental income. For lonely students, the change in housing allowance is now not entirely but almost entirely a substitute for the student allowance cut. Most of the family students have already been covered by general housing allowance in the past, for them this has been a drop, but now it is being corrected by a future guardian raise. However, the index freezes, which have been ugly and difficult, have brought good things with them, i.e. the ceiling on customer fees and the cap on medicines have fallen. There has been a lot of additional funding to support carers. One last point I would like to make is that there has not been a deterioration in last resort income security, but it has not actually been improved, so this is not so much a positive thing. Mr President! Of course, inequality is more than money, food or pharmacists who have been repeatedly raised. For example, loneliness really affects all social classes, and the question is how we will be able to answer it in the coming days. It is important that a comprehensive reform of basic security should be initiated, but that will then be a matter for the next parliamentary term in particular. Instead of just being negative, the current opposition should also start building sustainable social protection for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u311	Mr President! Talking about inequality is no small thing, for inequality affects people in all areas of life. It reduces social success, reduces the take-up of opportunities and causes a significant backsliding for some of the population in different areas of life and in the market. Inequality also reduces people's ability to use the opportunities of public authorities and the labour market in the form of incentive and bureaucracy traps. It also reduces physical health and mental autonomy, reflected in differences in life expectancy, long-term low incomes and permanent disability. During the present government, inequality has grown, and it can be seen in people’s everyday lives. The growth and deepening of poverty are part of inequality. During the last term of the government, a policy of income differentials was adopted. The increase in basic security caused decades of economic inequality and even reduced the number of poor. The current government freezes social benefits indexes, reduces the level of social security and cuts the reimbursement of medicines. All these decisions are shown as a minus in the purse of the lowest-incomed. For example, lowering the reimbursement of type 2 diabetes medicines has resulted in low-income people not buying them. There are increasing numbers of poor pensioners and families with children in bread queues. Mr President! At the end of September, a significant survey of attitudes among Finnish young people was published. In this study, young people considered the main threat to security to the differences and inequalities between Finns. According to a recent report from the Youth Research Network, NEETs, i.e. young people outside work and education, feel that exclusion is a matter of being left alone and losing confidence in other people and society. These young people have a weaker sense of belonging to Finnish society than other young people and are more passive and hopeless. It is estimated that there are nearly 70,000 young people already excluded in Finland, and this number is increasing. We have to be concerned about this. Mr President! There are still nearly 100,000 people under 30 years of age in Finland who do not have a post-basic level degree. The employment rate for those who have completed primary education alone is only 40%, while the employment rate for those with higher education is over 85% and for those with secondary education is around 70%. The length of working careers exceeds that of those who rely on comprehensive school education for barely 20 years, while the working careers of highly educated people last for more than 35 years. These figures account for the development of inequality. It is necessary to increase the level of education if we are to have higher levels of employment. The SDP therefore has an important objective of 12 years of compulsory education. The most urgent reform would be to get educational materials free of charge in secondary education. Now vocational education and upper secondary school may be interrupted because the family cannot afford to pay for learning materials. I know these kinds of situations from this autumn too. The cost of extending compulsory education to society comes back through better employment and reduced exclusion. The objectives of the reform of vocational education and training are good in themselves, but these objectives cannot be achieved because of huge savings. In the name of Reform, the government first cut EUR 200 million from the educational establishments and only then began structural reform. The Minister of Education constantly points out how well the reform has been carried out and how it has been built together. A few weeks ago, a questionnaire from Yle appeared to teachers, and less than 22 per cent of teachers believed that the reform could respond to future professional skills and the needs of working life. Only 15 percent of teachers believed that the reform would reduce the drop-out rate. Less than 13 per cent of teachers believed that reform could help prevent exclusion better than before, and less than 24 per cent of them believed that after the reform their educational institution would be able to provide sufficient guidance and support to students. Nearly 80 per cent of teachers believed that there were more differences in the quality of skills for graduates and only slightly more than 15 per cent believed that, after the reform, educational institutions would be able to guarantee equal opportunities for further learning for all students in the profession. Teachers are really concerned about students and their inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u312	Mr President! Over the decades, we have built a country in Finland where income differences are small and all children and young people have equal opportunities to train and create their future regardless of their background. We've taken care of anyone who needs help and whose own powers are running out. It's a valuable legacy to take care of. Unfortunately, there are indications that that legacy is crumbling. Reducing inequality has not been at the centre The decision-making of the Sipilä government. The benefits of low-income people are cut, and the beneficiaries of tax relief are those who benefit most from good income. As a result, Finland has a growing number of those who have to struggle day to day, families with children, sick people, elderly people, disabled people, students and other low-income people whose lives are a daily battle for survival. Studies show that the number of people living below the poverty line and the poverty of families with children are increasing. More than 50,000 families with children receive income support. The cuts in benefits have often hit the same people. The lowest-income group suffers the most, but is less likely to be treated. The cuts to medical and sickness benefits and the increases in the share of own funds and customer fees have put many people in a position to choose whether to treat their illness or to buy food with the money. Last year, a record number of customer fees for social welfare and health services went into enforcement. The bread lines have grown longer, and many workers also have to resort to them. Over 20,000 Finns pick up their food from bread lines every week. Many older people who built this country will have to live their last years in extreme scarcity. Not everyone can afford to treat their diseases. Many people’s social lives have shrunk because they cannot afford to use public transport. There's a lot of old people who have to bargain on their food. Last season, the government made sure that despite the cuts, the benefits of the lowest incomes were not cut. On the contrary, basic security was increased by EUR 100. So there's another way to do it. Poverty does not encourage, it discourages. Many who have fallen into poverty will no longer be able to push back up. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the growth of income differentials does not become a long-term trend and, therefore, the green alternative budget will reduce taxation on low incomes and increase taxation on dividends. A total of 650 million will be invested in the fight against poverty. Mr President! Poverty researchers have found that Finnish inequality is beginning to be built early. Inequality begins before school. For example, studies show that already in the first category there are huge differences in vocabulary. Families with a high level of educational and cultural capital are able to pass on to their children values and abilities that move them forward faster, and the school is unable to keep those from the weakest backgrounds in a similar way. These differences from family backgrounds can be effectively offset by high-quality early childhood education. However, the government has weakened early childhood education by increasing the group sizes of day care. It has also reduced the right of unemployed children to receive early childhood education, thus reducing the right of those children who would benefit most from it. These surgeries have been cancelled by smart municipalities that have been able to afford. It's the right thing to do. But at the same time, it leads to a situation where the child’s food for success depends more and more on where he or she happens to be born. Limited cuts in education have meant that comprehensive school is no longer able to catch up with differences in home background, even though this has always been at the heart of Finnish education policy. There is a shortage of adults in schools, and not everyone can study in large groups. Too many young people are forced to decide with inadequate skills in comprehensive school, which breaks their path of learning and threatens to completely displace society. Differences between schools have grown. Some municipalities have been able to compensate for government cuts; others have not. Depending on the municipality of residence, Finnish students receive a different amount of education. The divorce may take up to six months during comprehensive school. Similarly, the amount of support received by pupils varies from one municipality to another. This development should not be allowed. The choice of the Greens is different from that of the government. It combats poverty and provides a good basis for education. It is done with the same total resources as the government. So it's not about the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u313	Irade the Talman! The theme of Finland’s Year of Independence Together — Tillsammans is essentially linked to this theme, inequality: together, not separately and all involved. We have a peace and order in society, because every Finn can feel that he is given the opportunity to move forward, to study, to succeed. The importance of this cannot be overestimated. Yesterday, as a result of greetings from abroad to 100-year-old Finland, many took on this particular, equal society and the community that operates through it, where everyone wants to make their own contribution, because they are given the opportunity. This was not the case at the beginning of Finland’s independence. The fact that we are at this point today is the sum of many good decisions, of which the least is the equality of study. The fact that everyone can trust that learning is possible, that it is not a matter of money, is something to hold on to. The advantage gained is easy to lose, and the loss may come with sneaky, small steps, unnoticed. However, it does not mean that everything should be measured in the hundredths of the Gini coefficient, it does not mean that the only measure that reduces inequality is the escalation of progress. We need to make sure that we can manage to afford an apartment with even a small salary, but also that taxation creates incentives for progress, learning, studying, that it creates incentives to start a business, for example. We need to make sure that everyone has access to the study path and that everyone is offered opportunities for success on the path. It is therefore incomprehensible to maintain the restriction on the subjective right to day care, given that estimates of savings have shown considerable optimism. This was a conscious decision that clearly promotes inequality: denying the group the right to full early childhood education on the basis of the socio-economic status of parents. Other government measures that lead to inequality are the current form of social welfare reform, which, according to expert judgements, is not moving towards its goal. And the fact that regional reform undermines the competitiveness of growth centres' economic engines is not sustainable regional equality. Mr President! A basic prerequisite for a functioning society is that all those in it are considered to be part of it and that everyone believes that they have the right to exist and to participate in society. One aspect of this is what was decided at the City Council in Helsinki just over a week ago. It was understood that it is also worthwhile to keep the most vulnerable within society. It was a wise, pragmatic decision. The other half of the same coin is represented by the demonstrations which unfortunately took place yesterday on the streets of Helsinki. While the majority of Finns celebrated our path after a difficult initial journey into a united people, the 612 procession and the latest neo-Nazi organization agitate for inequality, in order to define what it is to be Finnish as strictly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u314	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, it is sad but, on the other hand, very illustrative that we are discussing inequality in Parliament in the same week, in which Finland celebrates an exceptionally glorious and valuable Independence Day with its centenary celebrations. Well-being has been built for a hundred years. We have evolved from a poor country to the best country in the world, with severe years of war and a huge period of social construction. What has been built for decades with hard work and great sacrifices has now been quite a throttle for a few years. In view of the economic situation, cuts have been made. Services have started to be reformed, which too often has meant weakening them, even endangering them. The theme of the centenary is Together — Tillsammans. Yet right now, people are divided in two more powerfully than perhaps ever. We are divided into those who have and those who do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u317	Mr President! Today, an important issue has been addressed in this Chamber, an issue of inequality, and there are many aspects to it. In the run-up to the last election, a promise of training was made. You can say that it's been broken with a rare amount of glaringness. We have a limited subjective day care right and comprehensive school is in turmoil. Comprehensive school reform started in Lapland at the time, from which it was multiplied throughout the country. Comprehensive school has provided high-quality and equal education, which has made it possible for this nation to succeed today, as has also been mentioned in this Chamber today. Now, however, as a result of cutbacks and the increase in group sizes, the rock legs of comprehensive school are crumbling. Already half of the sixth - grade boys feel that school is meaningless and are not sufficiently attached to the school world. The gender learning gap is the largest in the OECD countries. Regional disparities are increasing. The girls in the South are better off than the boys in the North. One in eight boys can't really read after elementary school. The way to study can already stand up because of the family’s financial situation. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen mentioned here, among other things, that secondary education and that textbooks cost up to EUR 2 000 — and that could be the reason why a young person cannot continue education. However, the government will do nothing to stop this educational inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u322	Mr President! However, the review is the mother of the studies. In my brief reply earlier, I quoted these calculations by Nordea's Olli Kärkkäinen, which put this key issue on paper, and that is just as the reason why this interim issue has been made. After all, this is about the fact that the policy of the previous government, from 2011 to 2015, had an impact on the disposable income of the tens of results, that the income of the two poorest deciles increased by between 4% and 5%, while the wealthiers decreased by between 1.5% and 1%. And then this is reversed at the top of the rich: when the Social Democrats were in the government from 2011 to 2015, the richest also took part in the projects so that their tithe of income fell by 2 to 3%. Well, now the situation is different, the rich get rich. That is why this interim issue has been important. Mr President! Yesterday was a big holiday for us Finns. The word "success story" became this weekend's slogan. It is a good slogan for the development of 100 years, but after this was an important milestone in the part-opposition, when we want to continue this success story in terms of economic and social policies that offset income differentials and, as my recent figures have shown, this bourgeois right-wing government has taken development in a different direction. The poor have been impoverished, at least in relative terms, some of them properly, and the rich have become rich, there has been enough money for them. Mr President! In fact, I would like to raise one such national issue, which relates to this inequality development from around a longer term perspective. After all, the Youth Research Network carried out this kind of in-depth study with the heading "Youth indiscretion surprised at its depth", I repeat: "Youth indiscretion surprised at its depth". And this is about tens of thousands of young people, between the ages of 20 and 29. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that when I was on the train, when I came to the party yesterday, when I saw live TV on these demonstrations, and then I watched this Nazi procession — it was surprisingly large, 300 to 400 people, most young men — I thought that what is wrong with this society when young people choose such values. I have sometimes said that, in fact, they should all be sent from the resources of society to Auschwitz concentration camps to look at and get to know what the Nazis have done. These researchers note that ‘the feeling of belonging to Finnish society is less common’,that young people in the NEETs,‘influencing social affairs and social policy is rare,inparticular boys have an influence on foreign
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u325	There seems to be a need for a debat, so let's take a short debat at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u326	Mr President! Why, Mr Gustafsson, are you not talking about the 100,000 people who, during that period, what you have just praised for a fine season, were unemployed? Also the representative of the Greens, Mr Mikkonen, spoke only about the income-sharing effects and stared only at them, and they certainly remained at that time, but during this period, when the Minister of Finance was Urplainen of the SDP and after him Rinne, even though the budgets did not increase the income gap, more than 100,000 new unemployed came into this country. Why are you, Mr Gustafsson, not talking at all about their fate? Their arrivals then collapsed dramatically. Now that the Minister of Finance is an orphan, our economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling. Again, many of these people have been able to get back to work. Their income levels have improved,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u330	Mr President! Of course, no one underestimates the government’s efforts to improve employment — although they could be even more vigorous — but it cannot be denied that cutting basic security by making people rely on income support does not contribute to employment at all. Rather, it is striking the employment objective because there is no equivalent element of protection in income support than, for example, in housing with the EUR 300 component. It would therefore be most reasonable not to apply to basic security and housing allowance, that when a person receives unemployment benefit or housing allowance, he or she can work and maintain the EUR 300 component in both. There is no such thing as income support. Therefore, there is no sensible employment policy, as there is no sensible poverty policy, to increase the number of people who are supported by income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u331	Mr President! However, it must be said that if we compare the previous periods of government and this day, then at the time when the central government started working, the economic situation in this country was rather poor, quite poor, and now, after three years of government power, we have moved on to economic growth and we have been living in a booming period, as has been said here in the debatable phase. All of this has happened during a single reign. Is it not important, if anything, that more and more people have been caught up in working life? There's talk of tens of thousands of people changing their daily lives. Of course, the economy has been balanced. The economy was balanced by the previous government. But if you look at all the pensions of the low-income ones, when they have been discussed here, you have been able to improve the situation of the guaranteed pensioner three times. More than EUR 340 more will receive a guarantee pensioner a year into the hand than he did when the opposition was still in power.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u332	Mr President! Immediately to this previous speech: It is not entirely true that, with these increases in your guarantee pension, the amount available to the person would then be higher, because you have also reduced medical benefits, housing costs have risen, housing allowance has been cut and so on. Last season, the world economy stalled and a lot of measures were taken to boost employment, the fruits of which we are enjoying now, and when the time comes for economic growth, then they must be distributed fairly to those who have been cut the most and whose purchasing power would increase in the greatest way, with the wheels rotating in the economy, when every euro that such a low-income person can get in his hand goes to the bread or medicine or, perhaps, sometimes to the movies that everyone would enjoy. That is why we are not pleased with this unfair distribution of government income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u333	Mr President! Expressions of something mean that something is wrong, which is why people go out there and march. The further development of inequality must, of course, be stopped, but if there is a peaceful demonstration, yes, Mr Gustafsson, that guilting certainly does not help this issue, but we must try to find out why these people are going to protest and study it and try to develop and improve it. That our guilt of young men does not develop or lead to a better solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u334	Mr President! In my opinion, this issue of the opposition is in order. It is entirely appropriate and timely, because the main problems facing today's society are that this polarisation is beginning to be a little everywhere, and it is now, unfortunately, the case for young people. Looking at Kela’s studies, the number of young people on disability pension has doubled in 20 years. At least, according to Kela, the transition to work after training is not sufficiently supported, so that the young person has to rely on a permanent disability pension. When this study is 20 years old, it is not worth arguing over what government has been guilty of this, since it has probably all been responsible for it several times. But it would be more worthwhile constructively to ask — here there are two key ministers on the opposition side — and I ask you what your analysis is, why this has happened and what it is, what could support the transition to work, whether it is a constructive agreement at local level or what it is, that we actually support people's transition to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u335	Mr President! In my opinion, this was a very, very deep content in the speech of the representative. I'd love to continue this conversation over a cup of coffee. You have presented a very constructive debate on the future of society, and that is what it should be doing together on such the first day of our hundred-year history. I would like to say that there are quite major challenges in society, as Mr Gustafsson has just said in that toilet. The biggest of these challenges is that this Finnish sustainability gap is not of an economic nature, it is social. It is such a huge social sustainability gap that I myself would be particularly concerned about how we can afford, listen, in such a country to grow a generation that is already falling before there is even a chance
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u336	Once again, Mr Hoskonen, and then the reply to Mr Gustafsson, who started the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u337	Mr President! In short, I followed this debate in my office and thought I might say a few words about it to Mr Kiuru that I came across a person in town today who told me that there is a family in his immediate neighbourhood with the unemployed in the third generation, and that is obviously a problem, but we are not going to be able to cope with this problem by raising public spending in an unbridled manner. We have the only right way: like the late Member of Parliament, the Outi Ojala, whom I greatly respect in his day, said that a strong state economy is the best friend of the poor. That is still true. When we create more jobs in this country, it will bring, for example, a large paper machine, an investment in Äänekoski, a huge number of jobs in that region — not just a factory, but in bars and shops at service stations and so on. That is what we must strive for, because on the public side we must take care of,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u338	Mr President! Thank you for your interesting contributions. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Eestilä, who said in his speech that there are also enlightened social opinions in the assembly. There are moments when you can find them in Mr Heinos, but today was not the best day. The government in which the Social Democrats were involved — i.e. in 2011, I myself was a minister for two years and was also involved in the negotiations on the Government Programme — carried out the very policy that was agreed and stated in the Government Programme negotiations. In fact, the employment fruit of its policy only began to appear at the end. I listened to a radio programme in which an economist said that we should thank the Katainen-Stubb government for the good employment developments. The Sipilä Government and, in particular, this suction of Europe,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u339	Mr Heinonen, whose name has been mentioned here, now goes on to give a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u340	President! What, in my opinion, went into the forest during the previous period of the Government Programme negotiations was that it was required by the Social Democrats that if savings are made, then taxes should be tightened up by the same amount, i.e. this fifty-fifty thinking. In fact, it pushed our employment downhill and prevented us from catching up to the growth that already took place elsewhere in Europe. Now that the Minister for Finance is Minister Orpo, this thinking has been reversed, that is to say, the taxation of labour has been determinedly calculated, made from employment, paid for doing work. It is now seen here as fruit, so more and more people have come to the side of the work. I agree with the speakers that the biggest concern of our country, and even the threat to security, is exclusion. I hope that we will work together to find ways for every Finn to experience this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u341	Now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u342	Mr President! Inequality is one of the most serious problems facing our society. The government must correct its policies with a view to inequality in the various administrative sectors. An intermediate issue on this subject is appropriate, as the increase in inequality is a significant threat to the future prospects of 100-year-old Finland. It requires the establishment of a more functional support network for young people, families and all those who are, for one reason or another, disadvantaged. The reason why the Finns are not involved in the matter is not that we do not recognise the problem of inequality, but in the approach to the matter. If we study and look at the previous government, then those actions did not reduce inequality. The town was blackmailed. This had a negative impact on services for the elderly, even group sizes in schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u345	Mr President! The intermediate argument raised by the Red-Green opposition is that the government's economic policy has increased inequality. However, there is no statistical and independent fact to support this claim, as the impact of government measures on the Gini coefficient of income differentials has been negligible. In the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, changes in income differences by income category are minimal. Moreover, most importantly, our income differentials are among the smallest in the world. Here, Niilo Keränen, an experienced medical representative from Taivalkoski, listed a long list of good government measures to reduce income disparities, and it is expected that if the economy develops well, there will be plenty more of these in the remainder of the parliamentary term. It is also important to be aware that a well-functioning society also needs income differentials. With free teaching, funding for education supported by society and encouraging taxation, we create the conditions for the social rise of individuals and thus enable them to raise others with their success, for example by means of employment. The old truth is that no society can survive without the rich, whether we accept it or not. For example, during Mr Gustafsson's term of office, you would think that this would be familiar already — when you were dealing with the rich separately. The only sustainable way to create well-being is to create jobs. The government has succeeded in this, for there are now more than 80,000 fewer unemployed than at the beginning of the government term. Mr President! The intermediate issue also criticises the government for cutting student money. In Finland, the student support system is almost unique from an international perspective. We have not only free education, but even paid to study. This is, of course, a good thing. However, it is right that there has been a certain shift in student support towards loan financing, especially now that interest rates are low and labour shortages are crying out in many areas. The government's model of activation of the unemployed is precisely the policy we need. It is quite clear that all types of so-called ideological unemployment must be eliminated. The best way to do this is to remove incentives traps and demand active job search from the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u346	Mr President! Finland is one of the most equal countries in the world with indicators of income distribution and wealth distribution. Equality is a basic feature of Finnish, Nordic society, which defines us. Equality is reflected in many other social institutions that are important to us. The rule of law requires obedience to the law, and obedience to the law requires that the social order protected by the laws is perceived as fair, fair, equal. Finland has maintained a steady distribution of income even though changes have occurred. Even the increase in income differentials associated with the recovery from the recession of the 1990s did not drop us from the top position of equality on a world scale. Mr President! In the same way that equality affects many things, it is also the sum of many factors. In the defence of the government, views have been expressed that the change in income distribution is small, even marginal. This shows that the threat of inequality and its perpetrators have not been understood. It is not about the hundredths of income distribution indicators; it is about the fact that the structures of society produce inequalities. These structures are at the heart of the responsibility of the welfare state. The responsibility for health rests with individuals themselves, yet the welfare model, which is built up in society, has an impact on it. Well-organised maternity clinic services, children’s health services, well-functioning school health care provide healthy adults with equal starting points for adulthood. This model also continues in adults and older people. We must recognise that, in health inequalities, Finnish society is far from the ideal of equality. Sickness and low life expectancy are the most cruel inequalities. The government's groping for social reform has not even aimed at eliminating this inequality. The Prime Minister's Party is only interested in building a new administrative ladder. The party of the Minister of Finance cares little about the fact that its objective of freedom of choice seems already to lead to a completely out of control and unpredictable state. Whether the parties agree or disagree, their message highlights only these expensive cane horses. You don't hear a word about inequality. Mr President! Education is another basic pillar of equality. That is where we have achieved better health policy. Schools, universities and folklore have reached children, young people and adults regardless of their place of residence and wealth, and education has provided the kind of intellectual capital that compensates for the differences in wealth measured in money. It may have been successful, even if the childhood home did not become financial support and a great inheritance. Government cuts in education have undermined the foundations of equality. If health policy has been a neglect, the cuts in education have been almost an act of evil. If education resources are taken away, the importance of inherited wealth will be emphasised. Then we will be creating a permanent unequal society. In particular, cuts to early childhood education and the limitation of subjective day care rights are such policies which create permanently different structures. This is unacceptable, Mr President. Regional policy and urban policy have also been clear instruments for equality. There is no reason to lay down responsibility for the individual. It is a question of politics. Ensuring basic services for people in sparsely populated areas remains an important equality policy. It is especially close to the hearts of us Northern parliamentarians, but it has also been understood here in the capital region. In the coming years, urban policy will become more important. I referred above to differences in life expectancy. Here in the capital region, life expectancy can drop between districts for up to years on the way to a few metro stops, and unfortunately the situation in my home town of Oulu is similar. I expect the government to rave its course in social and regional reform, giving the cities resources and powers to handle their own affairs and, at the same time, to be strong locomotives in the surrounding countryside. Mr President! In Finland, regulated society was also equal to the rest of the world. After independence, we became a united people of independent peasants, workers, civilisation and entrepreneurs. It's an expensive legacy. We need to take better care of it than the government has committed itself to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u350	Madam President! The issue of inequality before us is justifiable in itself. It is a good thing that things are discussed and raised, it is positive in itself. But I wonder very much about the behaviour of the social democrats when they look at their actions during the last parliamentary term or, for example, in the context of the competitiveness pact. There's a name for a contract, but then it doesn't seem to remember how to keep an agreement. But it's not my problem, it's someone else's problem. In any case, Mr President, it is true that we have had a lot of problems in public finances, but they have now gradually been corrected. In a great many speeches in this Chamber, we have looked at whether we have an increased income gap. As has been proven by many different factors of the matter, the flashes have been very small, they themselves do not matter. 1 and 2 euros, of course they're money too, but they haven't changed this big picture to anything. And another thing: At the same time, the state finances situation has also been severely corrected. There is talk here of a different organisation of services in this country — they are always the responsibility of municipalities, the services of the police and the employment services belong to the state and a couple of other little things that ordinary people rarely encounter. In any case, the services of the municipalities are the ones we are talking about here. And in recent years, local government finances have improved enormously from the days when you were, ladies and gentlemen, in government responsibility. 7 billion was municipal debt, 7.5 billion is an exact figure, from your reign. Did it not affect the services of the municipalities at the time? Of course it did, for God's sake, dozens of municipalities were on the verge of bankruptcy, and now you're here making wise jokes about how things are going wrong. Last year, local government finances amounted to EUR 400 million in pros — not in debt but in pros — at 7.5 billion minuses in your time, for goodness sakes. Where's your math? Similarly, central government debt grew by EUR 20 billion. [SirpaPaateron intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u356	Madam President! Yes, there must be some question as to what kind of language to use in that toilet for other representatives. Mr Hoskonen may not remember or know when he was not in the centre of the opposition party last season, that at that time in September 2014 the centre left the matter of inequality and the livelihood of the low-income. I have to be honest with you, I liked the central politics, the mindset and the sensitivity of that time more than the centre of this reign. Today we have heard these pompous speeches about how well things are in Finland at the moment, although nothing excludes the fact that we have more than 100,000 children below the poverty line, we have 350,000 pensioners living with a livelihood of less than EUR 1000 and so on, as we have often said in this debate. ♪ Denial won't take you ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u358	Madam President! One such thing, since these figures were known during the last parliamentary term, where the local government finances are developing, that of course they were already known then. We have the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, as Mr Paatero, as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, knows exactly where these figures went. You could not have been unaware — there certainly is no credible explanation. Of course, you have to ask an intermediate question when you see that the local government finances are going to the wrong place. I asked a friend of mine, Iloannis Lampropoulus, the vicar of the Orthodox Church in Ilomants, when the Greek difficulties struck what was being done there when the state finances and public finances fell to their knees. There, at one time, about half of the pensions were cut off the first time. There's a little more common reading, but next time...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u359	Madam President! In order to keep these numbers somehow, the loan stock of the municipalities has continued to grow. It has nothing to do with any state contributions, since municipalities mainly invest and borrow in it. And Hoskonen, the loan stock of the municipalities is still growing. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u360	Mr President! After this afternoon and evening's debate, perhaps the situation is not quite as bad as the opposition suggests, and, on the other hand, it may be that the situation is not as good as the government suggests. But there has been progress, and I too trust in the Social Democratic Movement: you have often been a very responsible party of state administrators, but not all things are very bad. In fact, if you think about the time when the center came into power, it was not in any way terribly easy, and certainly it was not in any way terribly easy for the previous government. You, too, took very large economic adjustment measures, cut off many things and concentrated services, and that was certainly difficult. The problem, of course, was that the economy was not yet growing. The economy has now started to grow. This has certainly been influenced by a number of factors — the international situation, the world economy, the situation in the euro area — but it has certainly been influenced by what the government has done. Or is it that all bad things are always the fault of the government and good things are never the fault of the government? [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude] But if you think that at this point in the parliamentary term, when the centre came to power, Greece and I were in the worst growth rates in the euro area, and now we are in the best growth rates in the euro area, an annual growth rate of more than 3% in GDP, and such estimates were not dared and were not made when the government was formed. But if you think about what you can achieve with next year’s budget, it may seem small things, but I do not think it is trivial that, for example, the smallest maternity, paternity and parental allowances can now be increased by 23 euros a month. They have been waiting for an increase for quite a long time, they are almost the same amount as basic and human rights issues when we talk about all the smallest benefits, and they are finally being raised. It is said that the single parent increase in child benefit will increase by EUR 5 per month. It may not sound like a big MP, but knowing the plight of many families with children and single parents, even $5 a month will be big money. One might wonder that there was compensation for student aid — many governments have always tampered with student aid because it is a very large expenditure item in the state budget, but yet there was an increase in guardianship — a structural change, and I hope it will remain there. The centre has been driving it for quite a long time, and hopefully it will remain there for decades to come. It structurally improves the situation of studying parents. And this guarantee pension: The city centre is the Basic Security Party. It has always been important for us to invest in basic security and in the fact that even those people who have a broken career and who have not been able to work for decades have the right to basic security, and it must be supported when there is nothing else in life. Nor does it seem to me that the fact that the smallest pensions, that is to say the smallest pensions, have been able to raise these difficult economic situations three times, is anything but trivial and small — that next year you will receive more than EUR 344 in guaranteed pensions per year than when the centre came to power. Yes, this is an important issue for the most low-income pensioners. And if we talk about how new families are now coming out of day care fees: they are quite high fees for young working families when there are more than one child in care. Nearly 7,000 families are separated from them. The sister discount will also become more effective next year and also the experiment that 5-year-olds will already receive part-time early childhood education free of charge. So a lot has gone on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u361	Mr President! Many pensioners are living in a very difficult situation when their income is not even sufficient for the necessary expenses. Many old people have been unwittingly caught on the outer edges of society, in its dark and limbo. A small wage means a small pension. More than 540,000 pensioners live in Finland on monthly income below €1,200. Many of them are women who have done a long day's work in low-paid employment in industry, commerce, care and other important tasks for Finland. Higher prices of medicines, increased social welfare and health care charges, housing costs and unfair taxation reduce the quality of life of pensioners. Juha Sipilä's government's policy is unfair and unequal. The government seems to acknowledge the plight of pensioners with the attitude of ‘no money, try it out’. The government parties should be honest in saying that there is only money available for the rich, not for you poor people. Taxation is one concrete example of value choices. High-income pensioners benefit from tax reductions in Sipilä’s government at the same time as the purchasing power of the low-retirement pensioner goes down the drain as a result of the government’s value choices. It would have been much fairer if tax reductions of hundreds of millions of euros were aimed at those receiving a small pension and pay. The benefits they would have received in euro would have been a real relief to people’s daily livelihoods. Here in Parliament, the SDP has proposed a programme of measures to eliminate pensioners' poverty. A key element in improving the situation of people would be, among other things, the increase in national pensions, and hence small occupational pensions, the reduction in social and health care contributions and the prices of medicines, the reduction in the price of housing and the fairness of taxation. Mr President! The life of a low-income pensioner is here and now. It's tomorrow when I have to go to the pharmacy to buy medicine. It's the day after tomorrow when I have to go to the store to buy food. In a 100-year-old Finland, there should not be a situation where elderly people are waiting in line for bread. They have defended and rebuilt this country for us. The actions of Juha Sipilä’s bourgeois government have made poverty worse, and this is an dishonorable act. That is why I am in favour of giving the government mistrust.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u362	Mr President! I am talking about inequality from the point of view of education. As Mrs Lindtman said at the formal sitting on Tuesday, we want this to continue to be a country in which anyone can become anything. On Monday this week, the Minister of Education spoke well at the Civilization 100 Festival in the Helsinki University ballroom about how Finland’s strength strives for education. On the same Monday, in this Chamber, around these clocks, the cuts in primary schools, upper secondary schools and liberal educational work for Finland 101 were processed for next year. According to all experts, they increase inequalities in education, i.e. inequality among children. So let's talk about index freezes year after year. Unfortunately, then, on Monday, it was once again highlighted the contradiction between the Minister of Education's speeches and actions all the time. This was an isolated issue, with an index effect of around 5 million, but the big picture is that the government has disrupted the entire educational field and made record cuts in education and now it is trying to talk about reforms. Vocational education has been cut by nearly 200 million, but the sound does not really seem to be coming from the field, however it may seem. The Youth Guarantee has been pushed down. One of the most absurd decisions, as many have said here, has, of course, been the cutback in early childhood education during this parliamentary term. The ideological restriction of the unlimited subjective right of each child has certainly put children in a position of inequality on the basis of family background and also their place of residence, since some of the municipalities have gone as far as equality is concerned and have maintained the right at their own expense, but not all municipalities have had the opportunity to do so. This means that children no longer have equal rights to quality early childhood education and, above all, to being together regardless of the background, the labour market status of parents and their place of residence. And these savings have been quite modest, as we know. Mr President! Politics is an act. Yes, we want this to continue to be a country in which anyone can become anything. Equality in education is becoming more and more fragile. It is not yet visible when competing for the world’s top positions, but it is visible in silent signals. That is why the spiral of fall must now be brought to a halt, especially in remote areas and in certain densely populated urban areas, as researcher Venla Bernelius has rightly pointed out. Responding to silent signals is wisdom that we can then identify in the future. The spiral of inequality in education is dangerous in such a way that it will only affect the future, which we may not all think about yet. There is also a feature in the fragmentation of equality in education that is a terrible concern shared by the public. In the light of studies, Finns do not wish for themselves or their children any kind of elite position and, for example, do not seek to choose schools in that way. Finns are practical, desirable services close to and good schools for all, and therefore local schools and local day care centres need to be invested, and they are actually the keys to the solution. We must therefore ensure that in all schools it is possible for anyone to become anything and that there are no reasons for parents to avoid local schools. Then we must also understand the diversity of the regions. Here in Helsinki, we have areas where one in three pupils have an immigrant background, which is not Finnish or Swedish in their native language. In some areas such children are one in nine schoolchildren, that is, one in three and one in nine. It is therefore clear that there are different needs in these schools so that they can provide adequate individual education for all children and be a good local school. This is precisely the kind of activity that has been made with the savings that have been made. For example, the level of funding for so-called positive discrimination has been cut quite drastically in a few years, while the need for it has been constantly increasing, and there is little evidence of effectiveness. Here in Helsinki, the city has tried to replace government cuts, but this cannot be done indefinitely in the cities. So the government must be asked whether the government is really going to do such things as this week’s speech is really crying out and economic growth is also justifying. Is the Government going to join the Finnish Civilization Front and cancel these absurd cuts in education and, as a result, policies to increase inequality among young people and children in Finland? Or is there really reason to question trust in the government in identifying this issue? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u363	Mr President! We agree that Finland is a great country, but we must make constant efforts to ensure that Finland continues to remain one of the best countries in the world. The fact that the distribution of income in our country is relatively stable in international comparisons is linked to all the issues in which Finland is among the best countries in the world in comparison. Similarly, the increase in inequality is not just unfair, it tends to exacerbate a large number of problems in society from crime to health inequalities. Three examples of how Sipilä’s government has increased inequality. First, vocational training: In the Government's speech, Minister Orpo spoke very well and beautifully about the importance of education, among other things: "The main reason behind inequality and poverty is poor education. We have over 600,000 adults who do not have a post-basic level degree. In 2015, only 43 per cent of them worked, while the employment rate of graduates was over 86 per cent. Low-skilled people are in a weaker position when the requirements for work are increased. Poor education also predicts a lower health status. Those with primary education lose 50 per cent of their lives due to cancer and those with circulatory system diseases 100 per cent more than those with higher education." This analysis is shared by Minister Orpo and the Greens, but our conclusions on what needs to be done are very different. The government has cut out education drastically. Young people who do not have post-primary education are at the greatest risk of exclusion. The cuts to vocational education and training are one of the most worrying actions of the government. The actual teaching in vocational education is reduced and the leaving of students to their own happiness is called distance learning or self-learning. It's self-deception. In April, Suomen Kuvalehti gave examples of Oulu: before vocational studies there were more than 30 hours of contact teaching per week, now 25 hours on average, and in some areas less than 20 hours per week. The Association for the Development of Professional Skills has calculated that this year, the funding of vocational education and training institutions will be reduced by EUR 220 million and 800 teachers will have to be terminated. Another example: This government has deprived children of the unemployed of the right to full-time early education, which has already been mentioned many times in this debate. Today, The Economist has published a report that the number of words a child hears before his or her 5th birthday will determine his or her future. Research on the importance of early childhood education for human life is growing. The government has limited the right to early childhood education to those who are likely to benefit most. This can have a very damaging effect on children’s opportunities for life as a whole. And a third example, housing allowance: Right now, the second reading of the Parliamentary plenary session is awaiting the Government's proposal on index freezing of housing allowance. According to the government's own estimate, 40% of the savings achieved by this, or almost half, are due to an increase in income support expenditure. If the government’s objective is to improve the incentive to accept work, this change will go just backwards — along with the government’s own assessment that it will make life difficult for those who are already hardest to deal with. Mr President! It has been argued in this debate that there is no alternative. Yes, it is. We Greens in our alternative budget have presented one possibility. We are proposing more than EUR 600 million in the fight against poverty and EUR 500 million more in education than the government, and we are not proposing to finance this with a further loan. Instead, we propose to moderate the reduction in income tax from the government's proposal and, in addition, to cut subsidies that are harmful to the environment, subsidies that economists at the National Economic Research Centre, among others, have found ineffective for the economy and useless for employment. Olof Palme once said that politics att cereals — politics is a matter of will. It could also be said that politics is a choice. The government's choices include drastic educational cuts, cuts to the poorest groups of people, such as cuts to Kela's benefits, student grant, housing allowance and medical and travel allowances. If the impact assessments had been carefully carried out, the government would have noticed that the cuts it makes will accumulate in certain groups. These cuts are reflected, among other things, in the increase in the long-term use of income support. These are the wrong choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u364	Madam President! In its interim question, the opposition claims that the answer to the increased inequality can be found in the Sipilä Government Programme. The intermediate issue states that if the government really wants to influence inequality, this must be done by taking account of the opposition's policies in the alternative budgets. Mr President! I went over the guidelines for the alternative budgets and said that there are challenges there too. The slogan of the Social Democrats' shadow budget is 'growth belongs to everyone'. The shadow budget contains heavy-handed tax evasions, new tax laws that are most heavily targeted at companies. The Demari seem to lack a clear picture of the promotion of entrepreneurship. One hand is increasing taxes and obligations and the other hand is improving social security and creating separate incentives for models with many challenges. On the basis of the measures set out in the shadow budgets, at least growth would not belong to its key contributors, i.e. entrepreneurs, risk-takers, ordinary hard-working, trained workers. The biggest challenge of inequality in Finnish society is exclusion from working life. This is why access to employment and the removal of barriers to employment are the best means of combating inequality. Inequality will not be stopped by raising capital income taxes, stepping up the rate of income tax, removing entrepreneurial deductions or tightening dividend taxation. The fight against inequality, as the government does, is being tackled through measures that create the conditions for new work — rewarding hard work and allowing for risk-taking without fear of social safety nets being betrayed. Mr President! The opposition constantly claims that inequality and income inequality have increased in Finland. Again, according to Statistics Finland, there have been no substantial changes in Finland's income differentials throughout the 2000s. Employment growth reduces income inequality, as a larger proportion of Finns work. The main beneficiaries of economic growth are those who get jobs after unemployment. Of course, when people move from income transfers to pay, this affects income differences. Working and going to work in the morning must always be more profitable than living with social support. Mr President! Inequality is best combated by equal opportunities to train and by strong employment. These are the conditions for the opposition's alternative budgets to be completely scrapped. The opposition does not seem to understand that the government programme does not employ people. This will be done by the thousands of entrepreneurs from whom the opposition's alternative budgets will squeeze out the last of the conditions for creating new jobs and risking and hiring people to work. The opposition's budgets are a cold ride for trying, taking risks and owning. In the words of the late left MP Outi Ojala, 'the poor best friend is a strong state economy'. In a free market economy, the foundations of a strong state economy are created by the lowest possible and predictable and broad tax base, in which growth also belongs to its breeders, i.e. entrepreneurs, risk-takers and ordinary hard-working workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u365	Madam President! First of all, it has to be said that outside parties carried out an analysis of our alternative budget in relation to entrepreneurship, and it is true that taxation would be increased there on the side of large companies, but small, one-person companies and others would benefit from our proposals. So small companies would benefit from the proposals of the Social Democrats, but not the big ones. Yes, here we have a different view from the assembly and the EK. But there has been a need for a mid-term issue of inequality, because at that point, between two and three hours, the centre and perhaps even the assembly began to become the first comments that there may be a little model here, that something needs to be done, and that before that, I was even offended on behalf of people on low incomes when the Minister of Finance said that, when we can afford to, we can take care of inequality and the things of the lowest incomes. The state and society are known for it and give an idea of how it takes care of the most vulnerable. If this picture is so sad that only when all the other things have been done is it's pretty bad. It is therefore necessary to make these corrections. They would be needed in the context of economic policy, in order to reduce market conditions, to cancel the most low-income cuts, for example for the unemployed, students, families with children and pensioners who have been cut off, and to increase the funding of services, such as subjective day care rights, education at all levels and social and other services. In this economic policy, when the government feels that it is a special expert and expert, there are a few peculiar features: The first is that the structural deficit is increasing. Although this government programme states that the structural deficit will be eliminated, this will not happen, it will get worse. The second is that when cuts have to be made, the government says that they have to be made from the very low incomes, because they are the only ones receiving income transfers. This is not the case, but the Economic Assessment Council has also given guidance to the government, and if the government had wanted to listen, it would have been possible to have a different policy, also to use revenue to balance the economy and not necessarily to give it the tax incentives towards the highest incomes. Now the 4 billion will not come about, because 2 billion of it will go in the other direction: the 4 billion cuts, which will not quite be made, and then 2 million will be added to those who already have the most money at the moment. These are the policies of economic policy that I cannot understand. And they appear practically in people's purse so that for the low-income it is minus 30 euros and for the high-income plus 400 euros, and this is visible in people's lives. Thus, much more adjustment was made during the previous period, both in terms of revenue and expenditure, and it was nevertheless possible to maintain that economic inequality was not increasing and that it was possible to increase the level of basic security. So it's possible if you want to do it. Child poverty is as high as 120,000, and problems are already evident there in youth. We have experienced this same thing in the 1990s, and then Finland has even committed itself at the UN to policies that state that social spending that benefits children is adhered to and that it is placed first and foremost during both short-term and long-term financial and recession periods. This is what Finland has promised, signed a paper at the UN. And what happens? Either way, they're going to operate. We have a wide range of studies, one of which is the study of the Youth Research Network on young people who are not at work, in education or in training. The world picture is truly pessimistic: they do not trust other people, they do not trust society, they do not trust that they have any position and place, meaning in this society. I feel very bad because this is a risk, especially to themselves, but also to society as a whole. If this 70,000-year-olds increase again... I think it is already too big. One way would be for secondary education to continue to be 18 years old and free of charge, whether in high school or professional, including travel and supplies. I'll tell you one last thing at the end: We have had this social reform and the services are the other big thing where we need to move forward with these young people, and now, among other things, this social reform is splitting up the student care groups so that some of the people who meet young people will go into the service of the province and some of them will remain in the service of the municipality, and at the moment I am not very confident about how this will be done in practice. We have just received a report from the Me Foundation which contains four criteria for the exclusion of young people: unemployment, lack of education, mental health and lack of hobbies. If all these come true, the future of such a young person is likely to be quite weak. — Thank you, President. I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u366	Madam President! Firstly, I support Mr Laukkanen's motion of censure. Mr President! The previous Katainen government, in which the Christian Democrats were involved, was born in the midst of a recession. Yet that government managed to raise basic security by EUR 100, while the current government of the upswing has cut basic benefits. These basic benefits, which are linked to the National Pensions Index, are the source of livelihood for most of the most vulnerable people. This government must recognise that it has increased inequality in this policy. The fruits of the rising season should always be enjoyed by all, including the weaker ones. In that sense, these index freezes and cuts are just submissive, that when people in employment enjoy a booming period through wage increases and the general economic boom, the people who live on these basic benefits are relatively even more lagging behind in such a situation. For us Christian Democrats, this issue is an important one, and we have also done our own motion of censure, even though we cannot fully share the wordings of the social democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens who have tabled it. We have slightly different views on how to remedy this situation. But I believe that this is the common concern that this inequality is increasing, and indeed these index cuts are one of the main reasons. Families with children and pensioners have been particularly affected. Although we want to improve basic security, we believe that the risk of poverty cannot be eliminated simply by increasing money. We can see that when we look at different social security systems in other European countries. It is important that the coordination of basic security and work should also encourage those people who can be involved in and pursue work, through their own work, to improve their own situation in life. It is therefore important for us Christian Democrats that, at the latest during the forthcoming term of government, there should be a comprehensive fundamental security reform, the so-called social security reform. Social security needs changes in the sense that we need to reconcile work and social security profitably in such a way that it is always profitable to receive work and that, in view of the reduction in taxation and social security, it always goes hand in hand more than if a person does not accept the job. Of course, it is important, Mr President, that we take care of good, comprehensive social services, and it is also very important that our school system is not in itself increasing inequalities. This is also the concern we share with the rest of the opposition, which means that our school system is no longer uniform and gives everyone the same food for life. In that sense, it can be said that this is also a common concern of the opposition, that where is our school system going at the moment? Mr President! Income support was transferred to Kela from the beginning of the year to be applied for online. I have heard messages from social workers that they find it problematic that there are many customers who are not met at all. If they forget, their problems will grow. No one will necessarily meet many tens of thousands of them and ask how you really are. This kind of indifference — or should I say faceless — also increase the risk of poverty. Mr President! Together — Tillsammans, as we are celebrating this anniversary, eliminate inequalities by ensuring that we take good care of our social services, by ensuring that our education is equal and comprehensive and that it is accessible to all and, above all, by carrying out a fundamental security reform that Finland will also need in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u367	Madam President! There's always three waves in the depression. First, the economy is stalled, then unemployment starts to rise, and thirdly, the social recession is born. And after the rise starts, this chain goes the other way. First, the economy will improve, then jobs will be created, but if we do not make a wise and forwarding policy, then the social recession will remain. And after listening to today’s debate, it is actually necessary to ask about inequality right now. The government is also proud of the fact that employment has begun to improve. It is partly influenced by the favourable development of the international economy. Finland usually falls into a recession a little behind, and we rise from the recession a little behind in relation to the international economy. But it seems that the government will forget the social recession and, as it were, wipe it out and say that when employment improves, the problems of inequality will also be dealt with. And it's not like that. The economy and employment alone are not enough. It's about how the fruit is distributed. It is a question of fairness, and it is a question of equality. It is also a question of seeing not only the inequality of income but also the other elements of inequality, which relate to how different people can pass through education, how different people get access to services, how people who do not require services for themselves get access to them, because they often need them the hardest. This can be seen in health differences, for example. The government also says that employment is the best social security, and I agree with that. Unfortunately, however, the change in work is crumbling this old truth. When we assess the development of employment, we should also look inside its employment, because the poor who are working have come into our midst, and this figure is unfortunately also increasing. In Finland, the number is relatively small compared to, say, In the United States or, for example, in Germany, where the employment benefit actually came to a considerable extent through an increase in the proportion of working poor at the same time. In fact, it is about 4% of our workforce, and if we look inside this group we are talking about people living alone and families with children. This is one thing that must be taken into account when we hit the drum because employment has improved. If employment and employment do not provide income, then they are not the best social security. They may be part of the social security system, they may be involved in funding, but they do not necessarily bring us the benefits we imagine, for example, from the point of view of the sustainability gap. And when we use macro-economic indicators, we should go inside these changes and take a closer look. From the point of view of the sustainability of the welfare state, I believe that there are actually two key issues at stake — yes, of course others, but I believe that these are the most important ones: tax revenue and the adequacy of the workforce in relation to the future, because Finland is an ageing country. And if we go inside employment, we have about 300,000 part-time workers, 100,000 of whom need more work. Over 80,000 people work on zero contracts, of whom 30,000 want additional work. This list could be continued for temporary workers or for many other people who have been underemployed. And at the same time, those from the government parties who are valued in terms of employment policy and economic policy say that we only have about 40,000 people left. I was not even talking about the number of unemployed, but about the underemployed people in this society. These are positions that create inequalities, because people feel the message in such a way that they are, as it were, wasteful in this society. And, of course, this must not be the case. The success of the employment rate policy must also be measured by the quality of its work and the livelihood it secures, not just what the statistics tell us. That is why I am concerned that the government has, in a certain way, submitted itself to the idea of increasing low-wage employment. Low-wage work does not live, and it does not always bring tax benefits to society, because the amounts of social tax-funded income transfers that help people to work in these situations, such as housing allowance, are increasing. That is why work is not automatically the best social security. From the point of view of the sustainability of the welfare state, it is also essential to secure the workforce of the future. But I think that this is the thing that the government is most neglecting. The government's own budget proposal estimates that the number of households receiving supplementary income support, for example, will increase and the need for last resort income support will increase over a number of years. And this assessment is made at the same time as employment has improved. Isn't there something seriously wrong with this? Income support expenditure will increase even though employment will improve. Then we should go into the structures that are inside, but unfortunately the government has not done so. However, the Minister of Finance promised to look into the increase in income support expenditure, and I thought that was a good promise. I hope this is really happening. But we know that some of these effects are entirely final. We have had many laws in this Chamber, whose economic effects it is said that income support expenditure will increase as a result of this law. We already know that already last spring, for example, due to the cuts in medical allowances, Kela had to pay more than EUR 20 million in additional income support expenses for medical expenses alone, not to mention everything else that happened there. And at the same time we know that, for example, the so-called active model, which requires active job search and employment, will increase income support expenditure. The representative Hassi well described what is happening through the housing allowance reform, which also increases income support expenditure. At the same time, we also know and I believe we share the idea that income support is the most difficult place to receive jobs, because in fact, in order for a person to benefit financially, the income level should be reasonably high. It should completely exceed that level of income support plus tax minus what comes out of income. And this is how we actually eat the employment benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u368	Madam President! Poverty is born into the structures of our society through political decisions. No impact assessments have been carried out and decisions have been lumped together in the same groups of people, in the same areas. It is true that this is the result of a long-term perspective, many governments, but the measures taken by this government do not help this development, but, on the contrary, make the direction worse. I received a message a moment ago that why there is no debate in Parliament today about the permanent poverty of those who have been retired as a young person. This is where the person tells me: "At the age of 20, my loved one soon got a disability pension after graduation. She has lived in a service home for ten years and is now about 40 years old. He's never going back to work. Net income, including housing allowance, is EUR 1300 per month. After housing expenses, the customer charge of the service home, medical and pharmaceutical expenses, food and local transport expenses, he will receive EUR 80 per month of spending each month. That EUR 80 must be paid for clothing expenses, expenses related to personal cleanliness and cleanliness of the home and the subscription to the newspaper, as well as expenses related to leisure and leisure activities. For example, he cannot afford a new computer, telephone, glasses, bigger clothing purchases, or afford to travel to close relatives or visit movies and so on." This person has been in a situation like this for ten years. Politics is value choices, and value choices include options. They have been discussed with dedication in this Chamber today, in between intensely, in the middle more calmly. It is good that, after two hours of discussion, the government parties, too, began to have clear opinions and understanding after the first rejections that we need to be able to discuss this issue in our welfare society in order to prevent this development. Mr President! By way of derogation from permanent legislation, the Government proposes that the national pension index be frozen next year at the level of the current year. The change in indexation is intended to be permanent and would not be compensated for by subsequent revisions of the national pension index. This will continue to leave the benefits at a lower level. We Social Democrats have argued that indexation of benefits linked to the National Pensions Index should be carried out in accordance with permanent legislation in order to ensure that the purchasing power of small basic security benefits follows price developments, as is fair. This Social Democrats proposal has not been taken up, and this is something to be wondered about. There's no explanation why the economy is tight. However, the government has found money for tax reductions for well-paid people. That money's gone to the savings account. Money given to low incomes would go directly to bread, directly to consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u371	Mr President! The number of missing workers has increased. Already 79,000 men of the highest working age have been displaced in Finland. These men between the ages of 25 and 54 live on the outer edges of our society. They do not work, do not apply for employment, do not study or are on disability pension. They are missing and are only classified as 'other inactive'. The lack of post-primary education is an obstacle to the employment of these men. There is less work for the lowly educated, and the crucial thing is to train the boys. So men’s opportunities in working life rest on education, and what is the government doing? Cut out the training. Failure to deal with learning difficulties anticipates that boys will fall from education and thus be excluded from working life. Problems that would have been easy to deal with at an early stage have grown. In comprehensive school it is not all right when one in eight Finnish 15-year-old boys cannot read. The cuts in the budget make the situation worse. In primary school years, boys’ problems could be prevented by increasing teachers, assistants and social, youth and family work, as well as operating therapists in school life. The most difficult to find employment are those young men who only have comprehensive school studies, prolonged unemployment and low work history in the last ten years. The contempt of the nausea of these boys and men must be stopped. The boys must be given a much stronger basis in modern Finland and better opportunities to push forward and upward in life. The measures to do this are in the hands of the government of the country. Power always gives you a chance to act. No decisions fall from heaven but are the work of human hands. Every son of ours is worth the gold and deserves the opportunity to get on the road to success in life, as well - being boys grow up to be healthy men. Mr President! One in three families reports that children cannot take part in hobbies because of the family’s financial concerns. Indeed, it is not right for children to be unable to engage when the contributions are so high. Medium childhood at the age of 7 to 12 is a time when you create the basis for life for the rest of your life, eating rhythms, friends, exercise habits, etc. At your age, boys and girls need a different kind of support than what is now available. The finding of a preferred hobby should be strengthened by, among other things, school club activities and support for clubs and organisations. Well, the government of this country does not, however, promise funding for clubs, but, as we heard today in Parliamentary Question Time, the Minister for Sport promised a mobile application — that is, ladies and gentlemen, you hear correctly, the mobile application — [SirpaPaateron intermediate call] Already today many hobbies can be visited free of charge a few times. The crying of a child is caused by the fact that a hobby is not actually, regularly, due to high fees. Our ministers do not seem to understand the everyday lives of families with children. It's like giving a lollipop and then taking it off as soon as the child has one slip of it. The main problem is not finding a suitable hobby, but it is the fact that a child cannot engage in that hobby of his or her dreams because of a family's lack of money. You can also make friends and friends in your hobbies, but you can't have permanent relationships with friends for a few times. On the contrary, the child gets grief and bitterness when other group members are allowed to continue the hobby in the group and you can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u372	Mr President! Mr Paatero said that the shadow budget of the SDP was better for small companies than the government programme. Personally, I do not see it that way, because if you think of the entrepreneurship reduction that you want to remove in the shadow budget, then this means that when these small companies outside the limited companies that you mean are practically sole companies — over 200,000 of them — and they directly pay the result, and when they want to reduce the 5% off the entrepreneur — that is to say, it is directly the pay he gets home — you want to take that 5% away from him. There is no way to replace it with social benefits, which, in my view, are not exactly the same as what is in order. I'll get back to you on this later. Even if it is as you say it is, it is still the case that Finland primarily needs growing companies. All companies are small — I myself have started one man’s business and been there for another year — but they want to grow. That growth is not through anything other than results. And taxation matters, how it happens. In other words, in all the countries where small and medium-sized enterprises have grown, it has been very successful that small and medium-sized enterprises employ and have a better impact at a bad time than we do when we have this one-sided employment. We have a couple of hundred thousand sole entrepreneurs, 80,000 employed entrepreneurs and a few ten actual large companies. In other words, we do not have that small and medium-sized enterprise in its entirety — compared with Sweden and Germany — which aims and wants to grow through results. And that is the future of Finland. The way we deal with this will determine how we will be able to deal with this social security system in the future, especially these current transfers and others. So our relatively small share of small and medium-sized enterprises is the problem, and that is a problem that we must tackle. If you look at the way we deal with businesses and entrepreneurs again, I claim that there are challenges there too, in this whole gym. This Chamber does not accept that, for example, family members of an entrepreneur have the same social benefits as other people who are normally employed, and that is something that we should improve on. When a family member of an entrepreneur lives in the same household — even if he is genuinely unemployed and is unemployed elsewhere — it is always considered whether he is genuinely unemployed, whether he can work in that family business even if he does not have a job there. And even if the result is that there cannot be many employed in this company, then unemployment benefit can still be refused. I do not think that this should happen if every employer — and then the employee — pays unemployment insurance for all employees. What is the kind of insurance that is not valid when there is a certain status for that person? That's what I'm saying. The impression was given here that, for example, I am driving, and the assembly drives, through the EK, these interests of large companies. It's completely wrong. Large enterprises have had nothing to do with further employment in recent decades. All these small and medium-sized enterprises have played a decisive role for 20 years here in Finland. And no party in this Chamber is stupid enough to think of an advantage that cannot and will not provide that growth, but thinks of its interest, or at least a reasonable advantage that can provide — and that is the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and the growth of exports. We have in the Government Programme that this growth needs to be doubled, and it is the best medicine for Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u373	Madam President! The last time I spoke was too long at the time of the 5 minutes, so I had one thing left here to do with health inequalities and social reform. We in the previous government in Parliament also had the aim of reducing health inequalities, to which service integration and improved access were also linked. At this point, when we are coming up with a model that is undoubtedly taking an example from Sweden, for example, we can already see that services will improve in those areas where people are well-off and, for their part, access to services will be improved, but in those areas where there are people who are not necessarily doing so well economically or otherwise, the services will almost disappear. If this customer fee system, which is already quite different in Finland at the moment, increases customer fees, it is known that fewer and fewer low-income people will even apply for treatment if they are excessive. As regards the parts or the final piece of the statement at the moment, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities carried out its own study of experts, i.e. employees who currently provide social and health services in health care districts and municipalities, produce them in practice every day. The question was how these people think that this current model, both in terms of the social welfare law and in terms of the freedom of choice law, will reduce health inequalities. The effect of these laws on health inequalities was totally shared by 1%. 1% thought that these laws would reduce health inequalities, and yet the government believes that these will be taken forward. Similar type
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u374	Mr President! In recent times, a few representatives have pointed out that it took a few hours before it was understood on this side that this issue was important. Of course, group speeches are not always heard with such precision as the speeches made by representatives, but a direct quotation from the speech of the parliamentary group that I have made: "Finland is and will continue to be an equal country, which is well placed to train and work to achieve its own dreams, regardless of its origins and regions. There's always something better for the best. Indeed, the low income gap in international comparisons does not comfort the long-term unemployed looking for work or young people without a place of study or workshop. That is why the Parliamentary Group in the Coalition Party sees it as important that we discuss ways of preventing exclusion, inequality and poverty." That is indeed what I said in that group speech. That is exactly the way the debate has been about it. Others prefer different types to different ones. That is politics, but I believe that every parliamentary group, the nine that are in this House, attaches great importance to how we can prevent our inequalities and the exclusion of young people. This week, in the debate, a lot has been said about the indiscretion of young NEETs in this study of the Youth Research Network, where young people considered the lack of friends to be the cause of exclusion. So both the experience of loneliness and the proportion of those who do not have any confidential friends are many times greater than the average of young people. And it is precisely that outside employment and education is less important in defining exclusion for young people. This is also an important aspect of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u375	Mr President! From that debate in the beginning of the evening, the observation was that it was undisputed that the main ministers of the government parties and also the government parties began the debate in relation to the intermediate issue with this valuable hype as such, which was related to Finland’s 100th anniversary, but especially to the fact that we have managed — wonderfully in itself — in so many different studies, which have assessed the state of the nation in terms of well-being, economy, corruption and so on. But I would like to say that I very much appreciate the Minister of Finance Orpo, who clearly changed the tone during and after the debate, and in fact said that this debate on the issue of mediation and this inequality was in order after all. I personally believe that it sat extremely well after this 100th anniversary because I would like to believe that in the future we all want this success story to continue. It will not continue if we forget these 100,000 young people under the age of 30, then we will, in a way, leave them aside, plus other problems which are linked to this inequality. Mr President! I am one of those who also believe that the best policy against exclusion is to create jobs, activities in society, but in addition to its employment policy, this situation for children and young people is what we must look at now. Although this evening is so far along, I would like to raise the issue of young people who depend only on primary school. Indeed, we have an employment rate of 40% for those who do not have a secondary degree, and there are still nearly 100,000 people in Finland under 30 years of age who do not have this post-basic level degree. There is also this very serious problem of the exclusion of young men, not only in terms of this unemployment, but, as I said in the early part of the evening, when I came here yesterday afternoon from a commercial channel on the train to celebrate here, I watched live this expression of the young Nazis — they were surprisingly many in it, from 300 to 400, and they were mainly young men — so I thought that what has gone wrong as in life, education and in this social reality. I do not have a patent solution for it, but of course they must be contacted through this education and NGOs and so on. I myself have noticed that, in a few occasions, I wanted to talk to these young extremists, that when you are able to discuss and argue different things, you can see that a lamp is going to burn anyway. And then the central view of our Social Democrats is that we want this right of compulsory education to be raised, because now that there are more and more young people between 5000 and 10,000 who are left to elementary school alone, for us, as is the accumulation of a group of young people who are more or less excluded, which is humanly wrong and also wrong in terms of the overall interests of society. That is why, Mr President, I will conclude my speech in this regard with the conclusion that extending compulsory education and the subsequent transition to free secondary education is a reasonably advantageous reform in terms of its benefits. VATT estimates that one year of compulsory education will increase costs of between EUR 17 million and EUR 27 million per year, and this kind of investment will, over time, pay for itself through increased employment and declining exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u376	Madam President! Following on from the previous speech by Mr Gustafsson: Small income differentials have been seen as a guarantee that the streets will be safe and that peace will be maintained in society. Bitterness creates radicalisation and so forth, and therefore work to prevent inequality is very important. Inequality, low incomes, poverty, exclusion — they are all little different. A lot of people are connected, but they're not. For example, poverty is not equal to exclusion. Many people go to work, receive a small salary, in fact 500,000 such Finns go to work, and they are by no means excluded, but they are poor. However, as I have said before in this debate, Finland is one of the most equal countries in the world and we have many things better than many other countries. We must work to ensure that Finland remains a model country for the world. The foundations of the welfare society must not be undermined, and we in the opposition are concerned about its development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u377	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson wondered what was wrong with us when between 5,000 and 10,000 young people were at risk of being excluded. I personally believe that this is a point on which we should talk much more. Surely everyone else is concerned about the future of young people and wonders about how to improve it. I am involved in youth work, and I constantly wonder how we can make young people more active, as it were. One is that at the moment they do not have the opportunity to earn their own money and self-respect. Although, of course, that is not the crucial point, I would argue that it would be better if we had an atmosphere that would allow someone to work, even if at a small wage, for anyone from the age of 13 to 14 and to earn their own money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-07-ps-132.u378	Mr President! Congressman Suutari is on the right track. Now that much is said about our comprehensive school reform, I think it is precisely in secondary school that this kind of work life should be significantly improved. When I studied the practices of different countries in the field of vocational reform legislation, I found it interesting to see that in Denmark, after primary school, 60 per cent of the age group will continue immediately — in Finland it would be called the tenth grade, which assumes that their readiness for further studies is incomplete. When we still know that boys develop a year and a half slower than girls, then we would have some of the boys between the ages of 15 and 16 — what word to use — even this kind of year of training, in which also such internships, study of the work could be involved. Yes, it is time for such fundamental questions to go.
