ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u1	Pilvi Torsti, a political science doctor from Helsinki, who has become deputy to the constituency of Helsinki since 9 June 2017 instead of the released Nasima Razmyar, has presented me with his mandate today on 9 June 2017 and has taken over his mandate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Let us move on to the debate, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u3	Madam President! It is good that, during digitalisation, the construction of broadband networks throughout the country will be promoted. This is not just a problem for peripheral regions: even in very dense residential areas, we have blind areas where connections do not work in such a way as to be able to use services quickly and well. We have new services all the time. For example, tax returns and others will be made electronically in the future, and these connections will have to work. However, it is important to take this into account in the construction process to ensure that technology neutrality is taken into account as fully as possible so that we can build functional entities so that even sparsely populated areas can rely on high-quality Internet access. However, it is certainly realism that building such a connection to a single cottage is not possible without wireless access, for example. Mr President! What I particularly want to raise and what I am disappointed about is that this does not take any account of leisure homes. We have more and more people who would like to work in their other municipality of residence, their leisure home, but in practice, teleworking always requires functional online connections. I personally hope, as the committee has pointed out here, that the government will also consider, as soon as possible, whether these subsidies and the networks should also include leisure accommodation. Quite often, in fact, leisure settlement could also strengthen the status of permanent dwellings, so that this entity would thus be built stronger.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u4	Madam President! Much is said when the world changes and technology develops, that urbanisation is the only trend and soon everyone will have to live in some high-rise houses in the city, but we Finns are a close and close nation, and certainly a significant proportion of Finns will continue to live in the provinces and rural areas. When the world changes, it is absolutely essential that the best possible, efficient communication connections are also available in less populated areas, and functional broadband connections are of the utmost importance for businesses, primary production, teleworking and also for leisure settlements well described by Mr Heinonen. Mr President! I believe that this facilitation of broadband access, which is now being discussed, is the practical regional policy, the modern regional policy, which is capable of providing the conditions for living throughout the country. I would like to thank the government, especially Anne Berner, the Central Minister for Transport and Communications, for this very good proposal. This is a very great thing and also implements the digitalization goals of the Government Programme. I also very much welcome the fact that Isojoki, Ähtäri and Lappajärvi, from the municipalities of my own country in southern Ostrobothnia, are in the area of this slightly lower, 22% local government funding, and hopefully a good fibre network can be drawn to South Ostrobothnia more widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u5	Madam President! It is very important that further facilitations are made at this stage for broadband construction in sparsely populated areas. This is a very important project for the city centre. In time it took off during Matti Vanhanen's Prime Minister's term. On the other hand, it is sad to see that it has still not achieved the objective that was already set at that time, but it is good that this is where these facilitations come in. Hopefully, it will help to build even more broadband in sparsely populated areas. One thing I would like to draw attention to is that a very large proportion of the networks in sparsely populated areas have been built as village projects. The villages have been very active in these, and they have been purely voluntary projects. Unfortunately, the authorities may not have understood the flexibility they would need from the villagers, and there has been a great deal of bureaucracy and inflexibility, which has undoubtedly contributed to exhausting these large voluntary projects, but also to slowing down contacts. It is very important, although wireless connections are also developing, that we also have enough fibre in the country, because the data that will move in the future is so massive that it will also require the existence of fibres. It must also be noted that, when this was already mentioned in previous speeches, how this makes it possible to do more distance work, one thing which is under investigation and preparation at the Ministry of Finance is related to duality and the division of taxation between the two municipalities. I hope it will also make it possible. I must also say, on behalf of my own country, that the Utsjoki, one of the least populated municipalities in Finland, currently has the best broadband connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u6	Mr President! The Government's proposal to support broadband construction in sparsely populated areas makes sense. The proposal would increase the scope for support for broadband construction, which would also increase the interest of industry in fibre projects in sparsely populated regions that are not currently in a position to be tackled. I support this proposal because functional communications are a key part of people's everyday lives and an important issue from the point of view of equality between citizens and the provision of regional services. True Finns support the idea that the whole country can be kept inhabited and that services can also be kept in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u7	Madam President! This government proposal is brilliant. It will once again make our rural people equal, because more and more people will be able to access broadband. This bill makes sense to which areas this project support can be granted, although it is really great that the Broadband for All project was put on its feet in the first place. There were some casting errors. For example, it was often considered that small village evils must be excluded from this project, as it was assumed that such broadband construction would take place on market terms. This is not even happening in all municipal centres, so it has been very difficult to find funding or companies for these projects because the number of users has remained so low. In my opinion, the second problem is what is already called the Broadband for All project. In fact, it would make more sense to implement the Broadband for those who want to, so that there would be no unnecessary construction and there would be no money for it. But now this first failure is well corrected in this legislation, and it is important for many projects in difficulty and for many projects waiting for the future. I am very grateful to the Minister for Transport and Communications and to the entire committee for this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u8	Madam President! The bill is very good and worthy of support. Of course, the sad thing is that this will end at the end of 2019, and, as this report states, the amount of money that comes now, which is in place in this case and which this draft law concerns, is very little. In other words, it says: 'The Committee draws attention to the fact that the amount of aid available in relation to the total need to build broadband networks is relatively small'. That is the way it is, but in any case the direction is the right one. I have said this ten times in this House that I am very surprised at the fact that the European Union's Structural Fund money is not spent more on this wide-ranging construction of the country as a whole. Its better structural fund project in this country can only be the construction of broadbands in rural municipalities throughout the country. Sweden is far ahead of us here too. I hope that, in this respect, Mr Lintilä, the Minister for Industry, and also other ministers there in the various government meeting rooms, when these matters are being prepared, will take these millions of people from the European Union's structural funds as a matter of serious concern. It would be the best project to put broadband systems in place in this country with EU money, due to the neutrality of competition, the use of money and its enormous benefits and long-term sustainability. This is what many countries have done. I wonder why Finland is once again a developing country. Let us take Sweden as an example. I do not know what money Sweden has made for its development, but they have made wise decisions. I hope that this same path will be followed in Finland without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u9	Mr President! Indeed, we were happy to deal with this issue in the Committee on Transport and Communications, because this is an important issue for the whole of Finland. Indeed, this project was started already during the first government of Vanhanen, but it has been persistent and slow at times, and in market terms it has not been able to fully cover Finland as a whole. This 20 million subsidy money is very limited, and this money does not make much of a connection, but the direction is the right one. There must also be more money in the future. After all, this is very important for entrepreneurship and also for the conditions for living in sparsely populated areas. I must say that ordering services, such as HBO, Netflix, all of these, require a large amount of capacity. They are increasing, not only among young people, but also among adults, and there must also be fiber optics. I myself am a powerful supporter of photofibre. Of course we need mobile, but don't talk about 5G if 3G doesn't work. Pirkanmaa, for example, has a very hilly terrain, as the former Minister knows, and it also requires the fibre, which is not accessible everywhere on the mobile. I agree with Mr Heinonen that it would also be good to have leisure accommodation in this area, that it would be easier for people to work in leisure homes too, and perhaps that will be the case at some point. However, the extension of the eligible area of the proposal itself by reducing the unsupported part of the local loop from 2 km to 100 m is a big leap. This also specifically helps people in less populated areas and they are better placed to access broadband. Yes, I must say that this aspect of telecommunications is just as big as ours. We must be concerned about this. I'm just saying one detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u10	Madam President! I would like to compare this wide-band project with the whole history of Finland and look for a comparison of the construction of both the electricity network and the telephone network. This is a very important issue, and this still requires national measures, as the government has now wanted to facilitate this further development of the broadband project. Indeed, that fast and reliable broadband connection must be available to everyone throughout Finland. It's a fundamental right. Now that there is also an increasing switchover to the network, we also need connections. The deployment of 5G technology will improve the speed of these wireless networks and broadband connections in the future, but it will not make fixed broadband connections unnecessary either. Very often there are blind spots, and many businesses in rural areas, including farms, need secure communication systems. For example, power outages cause many problems, and in this sense, yes, while the networks and base stations are shutting down, there really is a need for fixed connections. The rural economy in particular, but indeed leisure-time housing, needs those links more than ever today. They can then be seen in the prices of the cottages and in the economic recovery needed for the countryside. In this sense, yes, as that 2019 approaches, the matter should be assessed then and seen what the real need is. I think there is. At the moment, many broadband companies are also in trouble, and the government and the Ministry of Transport and Communications must also assess whether there are ways of securing the future of these companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u11	Mr President! This project is undoubtedly good and necessary — but unfortunately completely inadequate. It is now the case that we live in such a banking identity society, which means that nothing works if a person is unable to use those banking credentials. They are needed in tax matters, banking services, prescription matters, Omanta-palvelu, TEM services — especially now that likely people’s living conditions depend on being able to report to the Employment Office what they have done, and they need to know what kind of jobs there are and what they can apply for. If we can't get broadband and functional network connections to every Cape, hang out and surround, then these people will be in desperate trouble. Now, in this Chamber, I have listened to these good speeches in themselves about how good this is, but now we must not be lulled into the fact that all things are good in this regard, because they are not, precisely because of the things I have just said. If this connection does not develop in every peninsula, snuggle and blockade, people will be in an unequal position. We've been talking about free-time residences. It is worth remembering that usually those places where there is a free-time residence also have permanent settlements. There's at least one of the two smokes. They used to say that the village evil would stand if there were 17 smokes. We now have places where there are only five smokes or maybe three smokes, but people still live there, and because we have created a society where digitality is the word of the day and where online access is the word of the day, we must make it possible for all these people then. In addition, it is good to remember that no matter how good and fast we are, we have harshly turned our backs on people who do not have access to these connections. These are the people who have lost their credit records and who, as a result, are still unable to get bank accounts — only a few receive and only a few banks — and if a person does not get bank accounts, then we will see to it that this person stays down and stays outside the services of society and that this person cannot get back to being a so-called'social' citizen, which would, however, be the most important thing for all of us and, above all, for that individual, the most important thing. I very much hope that, now that we are taking this a little further, we will not forget that services must be made available to all citizens. After that, we must not say that everything is well. No, it's not. Here I would like to quote the Bible’s word and say: Whoever forgets one of the little ones will do it for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u12	Madam President! This is indeed a long-term project, the Broadband for All, which has been going on for many years. I believe that its objective is absolutely important, which was also very clear in the previous speeches that all people should have the right to be well connected with information technology. That is why in many ways, at many levels, action must be taken, and this is one of them. Surely it is also true what has been mentioned here that there is a good project, but there is a scarcity in these appropriations, and that is certainly one problem. The second is that there have been different pitfalls, and I personally also welcome the fact that these particular types of casting defects can now be corrected in such a way that it will then be easier to move some projects forward. All in all, I would also like to emphasise and underline here the need not only for equal communication connections for all but also for equal information society capacity for all, but also for everyone to be able and able to participate in the information society. We may have to remember at this point that not everyone is yet in control of those gadgets, and that is why many actions have these capabilities to be improved overall. President! In the previous speech, there were also village projects and a certain kind of people's talk about what has been done over time to promote these issues. By the way, I remember that, among other things, there was a good joint project with the Omakoti Union to promote access to telecommunications in the detached areas. I very much appreciate the various NGO work, the village activities and what is happening within this framework. That reminds me that I would also like to remind you of the financing of these village associations, the village activities. It is unfortunate that almost every autumn we have now encountered such a situation here that Parliament has had to correct the government's proposals. So the village associations should be given assistance. They are always being tried out, and the Social Democrats in their own alternative budget would secure this funding. Last Christmas, Parliament added a little of that money but not enough. I think there is another example here of why village activities, village associations and their funding are so important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u13	Mr President! This government proposal is one of the projects that should be supported. This commitment to keeping the whole country inhabited requires practical action. We know that urbanisation is going on and will continue, but it is equally important that we continue to take care of sparsely populated areas and that functional communications are one of the essentials. You can say that seeds were actually placed on this project more than a decade ago in Vanhanen’s first government. After all, the government launched an information society project based on the fact that it would specifically develop all state activities from the point of view of making maximum use of information technology and that Finland could take the lead in this development and, of course, it would also require these contacts to be accessible to all citizens. That's where basic thinking comes from. I'm glad this is moving forward. Mr Tolppanen often points out in his speeches unquestionable flaws, and I hope that, as this project is being carried forward in committee, Mr Tolppane's wise words of warning will remain in mind and will also be taken into account. Next, let me say something that might surprise the listener: I am a Member of Parliament from Helsinki, but I too am concerned about the possibilities for village activities. It has already been said here that many of these broadband projects have been carried forward precisely by the village committees, and it is about the activity that we still have in our communities. Of course, it is particularly necessary in a sparsely populated area, where the whole life force depends on being able to act together and help each other and defend the local village trade and to manage postal connections and take this type of broadband projects forward. I therefore dare to hope that sufficient resources will be made available for this village activity in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u14	Mr President! The last time I spoke, I was still excited to ask for this second speech because I am a Tampere-based suburban person and, nevertheless, I, like Mrs Heinäluoma, want to stand up for the villages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u17	Madam President! I was thinking of commenting on broadband construction and this funding when it was raised in these closing remarks. Unfortunately, this is already a longer tradition, but it also applies to the financing of village activities. Of course, in this context it is absolutely central when we have discussed the important role many villages have played in initiating broadband construction and taking on very great responsibility for it — but in the same way it seems to me that the preparation of the Ministry of Finance does not always recognise the will of Parliament, so that every single Christmas since 4H and village activities and certain national defence organisations, Parliament must manage that money. So it would, of course, be desirable if there was such a broad consensus that the money would remain there year after year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u18	I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that due to the large committee meeting our time here will soon be up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-09-ps-67.u19	Mr President! I have a very brief speech to make. It occurred to me from this speech that we have a good point of view in our alternative budget for the SDP. We have specifically set aside a sum of 5 million, which can then, in total, be given grants to NGOs in different sectors of government much more than today, because everyone understands that the small amount of money that goes to non-governmental organisations is doing a great deal of good, and that is why these multiplier effects are also extremely good in terms of the vitality of a particular economy. It can be a cultural organisation, it can be an environmental organisation, an animal welfare organisation, anything in different sectors: a common large budget for this, which will then be used to support the activities of NGOs as a whole. That is a good point. It is worth taking note of, ladies and gentlemen of the government.
