ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u2	Mr President! This is about the security of certain ships and ports. Of course, these things are always very important, and I understand in this situation that there is certainly progress in this direction. But all in all, this raises the question of public safety in Finland today. We know that we face numerous challenges. One thing that has been very worrying about in this Chamber is, for example, how the number of policemen develops in relation to changing, growing needs. I recall that we have had a great deal of concern about the fact that, for example, the police budget proposed in the financial framework is not at all sufficient to achieve the objectives of the number of policemen that the government says it is trying to achieve in the text. So the situation is that the government is seeking the number of about 7,000 policemen in the years to come and, in practice, actually the money that has been earmarked for this will, according to experts, be sufficient for the number of about 6500 policemen. This is very worrying. Among other things, the entire Committee on Finance, in its own opinion on the Internal Security Report, expressed great concern and stated that already in Finland the number of policemen in relation to the population is the lowest in the European Union. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u3	Mr President! This adoption of the bill is justified by itself. We need clear rules on how security measures are to be taken in ports and also in the case of ships where necessary. And it is important that these powers are defined by law and that the positions are clear in this respect. But I too have the same concern as Mr Viitanen referred to here, and it concerns the extent to which the police are safeguarding the basic security of citizens and how much of this public security mission is being transferred to the private sector. Then it depends on whether someone has been interested in paying for these security measures. There has been a great deal of concern about the safety of the people in relation to the basic security and livelihood of people, but it is also important that we in the police are able to do their basic tasks well and that the public can count on the police to be available when problems arise and that the police are also present so that it creates a sense of security for people. My concern is the same as Mr Viitanen's concern that the reduction in the number of police officers has now exceeded the limit that can be considered acceptable. The Nordic countries generally survive by a very small number of police officers — they are well-functioning societies where rules are in force and citizens rely on the basic functions of society — but there is still a limit, after which the lack of police is beginning to create insecurity, and I believe that this is the border. I find it quite surprising that the reduction in the number of police officers in circumstances in which we have a Soviet Minister of the Interior is not being spoken here and that when you have the Finns of Finland in the government, the number of policemen goes below everything that it has ever been. 7200 would have been some kind of waterline.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u4	Madam President! After all, the government's proposal for a law on the security and security of ships and the ports serving them is now being discussed, and the number of police officers has nothing to do with this law. Of course, it is good that there is concern about it. After all, ships and maritime transport are commercial activities, and it is natural that matters relating to their safety are then also handled by these commercial operators and that the security services that are available and necessary for the protection of passengers and traffic are used. But the number of police officers has nothing to do with this. It's the right thing to worry about. The number of police officers is being examined, and that is clearly a concern of the government. And in this economic situation, it will certainly be dealt with by all possible means, as has been the case up to now with this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u5	Madam President! I share these concerns, which Mr Viitanen has raised very well here. Although it has now been stated that this does not have to do with this, it is also important to have the courage to talk about the resources with which those tasks are carried out in all cases where police tasks are dealt with. And we all know — I am an alternate member of the Police Advisory Board, I get the material there, I go through it and I find these clearly there — these concerns that the police themselves are expressing. In other words, this is the question of how the government is going to manage that this budget will continue to increase so that the minimum of 7200 to 7500 police officers can be made available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u6	Mr President! Safety is a broad concept. It's all about keeping the nation whole. It assumes that foreign trade will be safeguarded, as is the case in this case with this necessary bill on how these security measures can be secured in ports. But then the bottom line is that we have sufficient authority resources. When the group chairman of the delegation is Jokinen, who, for the first time, is himself a representative of the police, when it seems that this is the case that the assembly is being run, you can say, by the former police force, and when the assembly has a minister of police, I understand that there is no desire to discuss this number of police officers. But the truth is that a few weeks ago I myself met the chief of police in my own region, for example, and he did send the message that we are now going to the levels of resources, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u7	Madam President! It is a very good thing that the speeches pay attention to the number of policemen and to the number of police officers being reduced, and everyone is concerned that the number of police officers maintaining public order and security must not be reduced. I share these concerns, especially in this situation, when we are obviously left with people who do not have the right to be in the country. We are talking about ports and ships, but I still believe that public security is also linked to these unauthorized — I am not talking about undocumented persons — people in the country. And as the number of these increases increases, I think it is very important that, in the same way as this increase, police resources must be secured in order to guarantee security for all citizens. For example, this notorious camp
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u9	Madam President! This bill, which is now being discussed, relates to the fact that, at the beginning of the year, we came into force a comprehensive reform of the private security sector and this law on vigilantes was repealed in the same context, and then there was a technical lack of this kind with regard to ship safety in relation to these guardians of order. In the law currently in force, only a border guard, a police officer and a customs officer have the right to carry out these security checks, and it is indeed appropriate that the guardians of order continue to be able to carry out the task they have carried out in the past. However, the concern about adequate resources for the safety authorities is justified — it is a matter for the police, for border guards and also for Customs. I would like to thank Minister Risikko himself for coming here and ask how these concerns will be taken into account so that we can continue to be able to guarantee this level of safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u10	Mr President! It is easy to say, for example, by the Finns of Peru, that yes, the number of policemen must be secured. But the fact that the entire Committee on Finance, for example, has unanimously stated is that, with these resources, the number of policemen in this spending limits period will fall like a cow's tail. It will go there for six and a half thousand at the same time as, as it were, 7,000. And, as has been said, the Social Democrats believe that the pain limit goes in the ears of 7200. Let's go down to the record. And now I would like an answer to this question, which Mr Lindtman put earlier: Last season, when the Finns of Finland believed that the government should be overthrown, if we go to such readings, what does this mean now that the actions are actually saying that this is not exactly what the voters ordered when the order was made in the last election on this matter? I would like to see some clarity about this contradiction between words and deeds — and, indeed, is this now another betrayal of a Finnish Greek promise?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u11	Mr President! I don't quite understand why the government should now be overthrown. This would certainly not contribute to our financial situation and certainly not to the resources of the police. On one occasion, it was said that police officers were even being applied for employment on a pension, which means that the police have not been adequately trained. Now, as I understand it, these training places have been increased. I would like to ask Minister Risiko — thank you for being here — when the SDP was very concerned about these appropriations and suggested that they would not be sufficient to meet these objectives: will you tell us how the government is prepared for us to have enough police officers? And was this the case with an increase in training places for police officers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u12	Mr President! I understand that this internal security is so important that it is shared by all parties. I will release Mr. Sea from the responsibility of what happened last season, but the fact is that during the last season, the Finns here believed that if the number of policemen — and I checked it now — goes below 7500 during the Räsänen period,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u15	And now, Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u16	Madam President! It was good of me to show up, because there was a good conversation here. I think we should discuss the police. Last autumn, when I came to this task, it became known that temporary police officers would have to be dismissed at the turn of the year at 200. Well, then I went to negotiate that we would get more money. And yes, we have received funding for these 200 people, and now we are going to take this to the framework as well. The report, which was given in May last year, thus concluded that the number of police officers should remain at least 7,000. And here I tell you that at the moment we have about 7200 police officers. As a personal and Ministry of the Interior, we have defined that the objective must be raised to 7,200, that is to say, to the amount it is at the moment, because our operating environment has changed from what it was when it was set up. Our operating environment has also changed in such a way that we have also agreed on the reform of alcohol law, which automatically brings, if the availability of alcohol increases, the need to increase the number of police officers. In addition, we have more of the threat of terrorism than we did then two years ago, and although we do not really have the threat picture from the point of view of, for example, Supo, we must still have those people for preventive action. And all in all, at the moment, for example, we need more police officers on that Railway Market. So in answer to what you claim: the Finns of Peru, who are in this government, are working together with other parties to work for the fact that we currently have 7200, and that is where we want to keep it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u17	There is an actual list of speakers here, and on the actual list, Mr Heinäluoma is now the first to say that please. Let's move on to this list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u18	Mr President! This was largely very happy to hear what Minister Risikko has said here, because otherwise we will have this genuine concern that we will have to move more and more security measures here on the commercial side. Although this bill is justified, I will be thinking about the fact that not everyone has the money to buy these security services, not everyone works in shopping malls and decides to buy these services. That's why the number of cops is a very big deal. Now, Minister Risiko's announcement that he is in favour of this review of the police line proposed by the government is a good thing. I am glad that he has now made clear to Parliament. The fact is that this increase in appropriations is temporary, that is, if there is no more, then we will be in this situation again next autumn when the budget is being discussed. I wish you every success in dealing with this issue. And I hope that, overall, the government will now think about this own security policy when it comes to this spending limits line, so that it does not come to the situation that people's basic confidence in their security and also in the activities of the police will begin to fall. After all, we have had a police officer among the institutions that have enjoyed a great deal of trust, and the police have indeed been seen as a friend of the citizen. It is the strength of Finnish society, as well as Nordic society, of course. But this reduction in the number of police officers is already having a very difficult impact in a large part of the country. Here in Helsinki, too, you can see and there will be feedback from the citizens that people are experiencing insecurity. But then I think about Lapland and some of our Eastern Finland regions, which have hundreds of kilometres to the nearest police station and it takes hours for the police to be on site. There will then be a risk that some areas of society will go to their own law when one cannot trust that the police will be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u19	Madam President! It was a good thing that Minister Risikko was here, and it was very good that he gave us an excellent response to these concerns, which are justifiable and always worthy of debate. Indeed, the security environment has changed, and so has the internal security environment. All laws, both in this law and in other laws and government proposals on security and police missions, are worth assessing what the effects are and where the situation is developing. The Minister also raised the issue of the overall reform of the future alcohol law with a few sentences, and I would like to ask how you can see whether the elements that have been baked into the bill can be further refined, because 70% of the feedback was that there are points of detail and that the tasks and costs of the police are going to rise. In that respect, could the government possibly make some further clarifications on the matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this goes a little further away from the actual subject, but perhaps Mr Tolvanen will try to return.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u21	Mr President! Indeed, it has gone a long way on this subject, but a good debate is admittedly a good one. This government proposal is quite justified: it is a technical change and, in fact, the ports are now operating in the same way as airports. So not two words for this, but for this other conversation, yes. I am not going to talk about alcohol, but the number of police officers and the number of safety authorities in general must be discussed, and we are all concerned about that. Minister Risikko has done an excellent job. He arranged for these 200 police officers, who were at risk of becoming unemployed, and he forgot to say here that he has, in fact, this year taken care of the fact that, once police officers have graduated from the Police College of Applied Sciences, they have all been employed — that is, police unemployment is almost zero. And now, though, we must remember that while this concern is common and important, we are all responsible for it. Police training now takes more than three years, and I do not want to throw stones, but decisions on the number of police officers should have been taken more than three years ago and during the previous government. So now, hopefully, this government will make wise decisions so that in the next three years we will have enough police officers. There has been a parliamentary working party in which Mr Karikin, as Vice-President, and I as President, have been involved, and that is where we called for a long-term approach to this number of police officers. I hope that we will now have such a long-term approach that the amount will be at a satisfactory level. And one more thing: When Minister Risikko said that we now have 7,200 police officers, it lacks some 300 police officers of the protection police, who, according to the old formula, were counted there, on the best days when we had 7800 police officers in Finland. The situation has deteriorated, but it is not quite as gloomy as the statistics show. But it's good that this is the kind of conversation we're having.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u22	Madam President! This state of affairs is also reflected in the fact that police tasks have been delegated to the private security sector, and now the most recent legislative amendment to the Defence Forces, security tasks, passenger transport and so on. The scarce resources of the police are not enough at the moment to carry out basic tasks, and this has been well highlighted here and is also behind these legislative proposals. After all, we have long had a downward budgetary framework for the police, and I am glad that this government is now changing its course. The budget approved last year for this year continued to have a declining framework for police internal security. This framework must be able to be reversed, and I am also pleased with the Minister's response to the change of direction. We currently have half the number of police officers compared to Sweden, for example. And at the latest it is high time to wake up to the fact that both of them, both internal and external, are marathon species. These should not be viewed by a single government, but, as Mr Tolvanen has referred to our previous working group, we should be able to look further. By 2025, the police level we have is not a few hundred smaller, but the actual figure is 650 policemen. This is what I asked Chief Inspector Kolehman. He told me that if we went to that part of the 20th century, the level we should be pursuing is 7850 so that the police can carry out their own statutory duties in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u23	I will give the floor to the representatives of Lindtman and Myllykoski on this list, and then the debate and the proceedings will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u24	Mr President! I must join in the thanks that have been expressed here to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Risiko. I am pleased that the government is prepared to withdraw this decision to count the number of police officers to 7,000. When the Internal Security Report was discussed here last year, there was a threat that we would go up to 6,500. Then the government said that we should try to stop at 7,000, and that also requires additional resources, and now, if we raise to 7200, it will require even more resources. That concern has been linked precisely to this training as to whether there is sufficient attraction to that police training, is that not so? And in order to get it, there has to be a view, and now decisions are needed to avoid this huge drop that threatens then in 2018. I am glad that the debate on the opposition in the context of the Internal Security Programme has now had an impact on this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u27	Madam President! As far as ports are concerned, it is extremely important that this change is made, that we can act as we have done, and I think that the government's proposal should be supported in this regard. But I must say that the only thing that remains in Helkama is a pack, but we must be happy to welcome this, that decisions have been withdrawn by the government. At this point, I must say to Minister Risiko that he will not withdraw, he has turned the government in a different direction and he is moving on. I'm sure it's a better formulation of these things in that Ostrobothnian country. I believe that Mr Heinäluoma raised a particularly important issue about the adequacy of the police: not everyone has the opportunity or the means to buy himself security. The police are the one who will ensure that citizens have a sense of security and that the police help the citizens. Shopping centres, industry, have the wealth that can buy this safety, but it is not appropriate either. We must have a public police force that really can safeguard the safety of our citizens. At this point, when fewer police numbers are distributed, it must be said that this causes regional inequalities. In the case of Satakunta, for example, 20 police posts have now been lost in south-west Finland, Varsinais-Suomi, and we have no need of police in Satakunta. At this point, I would like the Ministry to take a magnifying glass under consideration, how the scarce resources of police in these areas will be managed in such a way that the whole of regional security can be better preserved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u28	I have just learned that there is no such thing as a big committee meeting today, so we can continue to discuss these issues and this and other matters with no concern. — — — — Next on the list is Congressman Joona Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u29	Mr President! There is indeed a technical change in this area, and here, as in other matters, the Committee on Administrative Affairs has done an excellent job. After all, there is a unanimous report on this basis, but when you put this into this broader picture, then the debate will come precisely to this number of policemen and to this wide area of security. I also think that the Minister has made a point here, which is also relevant to this number of policemen, and that is whether the government, with its other proposals, is making a policy which raises the need for policemen. Here, for example, this amendment to the Alcohol Act, where all experts assume that if we are to continue in the intended direction, we will need more police officers. Or when you look at the social fabric of this society, which has been shattered by the government with its various presentations, it will also increase the uncertainty of the citizens and, in a certain way, the insecurity of the people, and even then the number of policemen will need to be increased. It is really good to have this connection that, yes, this 7200 police border is the last pain point we are at, and we have to stick to it. In this respect, I would like to thank the Minister for the very strong words that we are now looking for the means by which we will continue to do so in the coming years, because, as Mr Heinäluoma has well said here, the solution that was taken last autumn really is a fixed-term one, and we would now again need the government to take a line on how to avoid the situation that was threatened last autumn with regard to temporary policemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u30	Mr President! For my part, too, I am very pleased that Minister Risikko here has now made a clear change of direction, if you can say, in relation to the previous government report, that the 7000 is now the 7200. It is an important change of line, and it requires additional resources, and it was good that the government now withdrew this earlier decision and came back in this good direction. What I am a little concerned about here, of course, is the great silence that I now think I hear from the Finns of Peru. There have been very few speeches here since the change of line, and of course it would be good to know that we hope that the Finns of Peru support the change of line that the number of police officers will not be reduced as much as is planned. It is quite an important question, of course, because if the government had already been overthrown by the readings of less than 7500 in the last period, then of course this new approach should now be strongly supported overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u33	I would like to thank you for your interest in the campaign of Presidents of the People's Republic of Finland. Of course we are concerned about the number of police officers, and I personally have not understood this as withdrawing the decision, and I hope the Minister will correct that. There's been a policy, and now we'll see if we can add it. Now I may have misunderstood this debate and I would like to ask: does the SDP hope that the government will fall and that it will somehow save our situation? I don't really understand this conversation. As Mr Lindtman well said, I was not here last year to discuss this and to bring anything down. I try to be here to improve the situation in Finland, to ensure our future by making a sensible policy. I think that this debate on the overthrow of the government is a little silly, since the number of policemen is being raised and the Finns are definitely in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u34	To Minister Risiko in between two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u35	Madam President! Thank you for these discussions. I think it's a great thing that security is being taken care of here. I want to fix that now: There's nothing to reverse. The report states that the number of policemen is kept at least 7,000, and now I personally believe and, on the basis of the analysis, I have said that it should keep at least 7200. At the moment, we have about 7200. Just as Mr Tolvanen has said with merit, we do not have much unemployment. There is some unemployment but relatively little compared to many other regions. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that this government is the first government to take security as its top priority. It has now been agreed that security, both internal and external, will be a particularly important aspect of the mid-term review and the mid-term review. You will see that this government is the government that attaches importance to security. It is a basic human need, and that is why we want special attention to be paid to it. And it has powers, it has capabilities and resources and a common picture of the situation — it is made up of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u36	Mr President! Once again, I am pleased that Minister Risikko has taken the line and, in fact, you can say that he has almost promised — not yet promised, but quite close — on behalf of the government that this matter will be dealt with. I have to correct enough that, in the context of the debate on internal security, your predecessor stated that the government's line is that the reduction in the number of policemen and women should be stopped to 7,000. And that's a tough decision. On behalf of the government, Minister Orpo stated that it was not at least 7,000 but would be stopped at 7,000. It's in black and white. And in this respect, whatever the term is used, perhaps everyone can now judge for themselves, those thousands of listeners there at the network record can judge whether this is a cancelled decision or not. And as far as this is concerned, as far as the people of Peru are concerned,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u38	Mr President! Minister Risikko, I would like to ask you a quick question here: Now that you have given the 10 million that have employed 30 police officers in Ostrobothnia, 20 of which have been assigned a post, and 10 have now had a long substitute — thanks to it — it seems that the debt is being paid there, in such a way that the compensatory allowance has been abolished, which means that the police in Ostrobothnia do not now have money for weekend emergency services or night calls, and when summer and the major summer events in Ostrobothnia come, there will be no police force. How do you handle these things? I would really like to ask — I will not take any more time — how this happened. It was like making a silly rug, cutting one end and putting it on the other end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u39	Mr President! An excellent and necessary debate, and I believe that it will also serve as a driving force for the spending limits debate after the municipal elections of the government and will send a strong message about what Parliament thinks about this security issue. In this connection, however, I was left with the valuable, important and somewhat striking information of Minister Risiko that he is preparing for the increase in police duties as a result of this amendment to the alcohol law. If it is known in advance that there are side effects of this kind, would it be appropriate to reconsider before this proposal of the Alcohol Act has been submitted to Parliament? We know from the public health point of view that there are several thousand deaths coming because of the dramatic increase in access, sales and marketing. I understand that the brewing industry is delighted, but the public health and human health aspects are a little different. If this same phenomenon works on the police side, then there is a huge struggle, there will be a little more money to try to stop the fall in the number of policemen, but then there will be new disturbances, so it will not solve this sense of security for people, so when Minister Risiko clearly has influence, I would like him to think again about whether there are any points in favour of this alcohol law being reconsidered.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u40	Secretary Risikko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u41	Madam President! I would just like to say to Mr Tolppa that I am not taking a stand on the operational side of the police, which is not the minister's job. The police government has distributed the money that has come this year, and then every chief of police there will decide. I do not take a position on the Rules of Procedure and on shifts and on these types of shifts. I have read this story about the Ostrobothnian today and also made a comment on it, but it is not — and is not even desirable or possible — the minister's job to participate in the operational side. But then as regards what Mr Heinäluoma said there, I myself have been in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and in various positions in the field of social welfare and health. Availability, price and education are the ones that tackle alcohol problems. As availability increases, preventive action is also needed to prevent problems from increasing on that side. There will be health problems, there will be police needs and so on. This must be understood by the legislator when such decisions are made: impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u43	Mr President! In fact, I would have asked the same question as Mr Heinäluoma about alcohol here. This same message has also come from the territory of the Chief of Police of East Uusimaa: the police are being prepared. It would be good to hear, and perhaps in the future we will find out whether the Ministry of the Interior has its own position on this reform of the alcohol law in this respect. The Minister said that this is a good thing to observe. But perhaps all in all, one part of this is the resources the police have, and the other is that it is important that they are allocated correctly. Although major administrative reforms have been made here, the guiding principle must be that we need more of those officer holes and fewer pencils. — This may be the last message for this good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u44	Madam President! The Minister has already left, but there are still three representatives of the Government Party, and I hope that the Prime Minister's staff will listen to this debate in the Chamber. During the last term, I was allowed to chair the Police Advisory Board and also to go around the police departments in Finland and meet different kinds of police officers. With regard to what I said earlier that this aspect of internal security is a marathon, I still believe that it should be possible to look beyond the reign. I am looking here at Mr Tolva, with whom we were indeed in the police and justice task force last season, as President of Tolvane and as Vice-President. If the Minister were in that ministerial box, I would ask him a question: would it be appropriate to set up a similar parliamentary working party now to look at police tasks and resources over the reign? For example, reference was made to a change in the alcohol law that brings a number of new jobs to the police. If I remember correctly, two thirds of the police’s organized duties in one way or another are related to drugs and most of the drugs are related to alcohol. In order to be able to struggle with this police setting in the years to come, I hope that through this parliamentary common vision we will be able to build a bridge there in the 20th century and strengthen the number of police personnel throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u45	Mr President! These ship and port security measures have brought us a good debate. In fact, there is such a connection that now that the strategy for internal security is being implemented — it is all right, and it looks a little more broadly, for example, that increase in alcohol consumption is being expressed there with certainty — it is a reduction in the number of policemen from places where there is no need for that significant use of public authority. Port security measures, for example, have moved away. Of course, if there are different transport and security tasks that the police wouldn't have to do, it's all right to think about them in that strategy — and I'm sure we'll think about the number of policemen. There is one thing I have not heard yet — when the minister is so modest always, I did not hear him say — that at least 400 training places per year have been guaranteed for new police officers. That's all right. And, as Mr Kari said there, these decisions must be taken on a long-term basis. The decisions on education and training that we are taking now will be visible in three years' time. So that's a long-term strategy to get, not just the number of cops. It is a matter of concern, but the same concern is the number of emergency services, the number of rescue services, the number of border guards, and when you go to the judiciary, there will be prosecutors, the judiciary and the Criminal Sanctions Agency. This pipe needs to work. So it is not just these port security measures that must be taken care of, but the whole pipeline. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u46	Madam President! I would also like to say that I am very pleased that this debate has taken place. When I started the debate, I was concerned about Minister Orpo's line in the internal report that 7,000 policemen would be as good as enough, and now it was good to hear this new line from Minister Risiko that 7200 would be the new amount. We've moved on. A little, can you say, we also heard a certain kind of support from the True Finns that this line of action would be supported? And now, as has been said, of course, we expect strong results from the spending limits debate on this issue as a whole. There was a new issue here, Mr President, which is not insignificant, namely this overall reform of alcohol law. If we continue this debate at the same pace, surely the next thing we will be facing is the new question of what the government intends to do about this change in the alcohol law that it is planning — in this respect too and in general. Hopefully, then, we will see an equally rewarding debate on this. We, as Social Democrats, do not feel bad if bad decisions are withdrawn, the lines are being corrected to be better, the same as ours. It is very welcome and good, and it is good to move on from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u47	Madam President! If, then, I too were to go down to port on this subject in a little while. At least it's gonna be a little bit tied up in this... [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u48	Mr President! I understand very well what Minister Risikko has just said about what he can and cannot intervene in. But I feel some confusion, and I feel a little like Pontius Pilate had gone in there and washed his hands. This is what we have to save for these weekends and nights, on the basis that last year the Police Government and the Minister for the Interior promised to make money specifically for the employment of 30 police officers in Ostrobothnia. Well that money came, 20 got a permanent seat, 10 got a fixed-term seat, and now that money is taken away from these downtimes, weekends and nighttimes, from when the police are in a hurry, from when the police are very often forced to send two patrols, one patrol is not even enough. I think this is kind of a weird thing to do right now. If money is given and then, by the police government, the money is pulled away, then who is there waving that baton? Who's gonna give you that money, and who's gonna pull it out? This is simply something that needs to be resolved, because otherwise it will not work out. Today is given, tomorrow is taken away, the day after tomorrow is given back half and said that now we gave a lot of money. This isn't how it works. This is inconceivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u49	Madam President! This police debate on port security tasks is probably gradually getting to the finish line, and let us put our whistles in the bag, but I would also like to point out here the number of policemen, the fact that the amount is not needed because of the quantity involved, but because of the fact that the police have certain tasks to protect citizens' rights, the fight against crime and so on. In this regard, I would like to remind you that this security situation in our society at this moment is still to be dealt with by the police. But the question is not how the police are doing, but how the citizen is doing in this society and how the police are able to secure the daily lives of the citizen, to prevent crime, to prevent and investigate, to take things forward. One of the key elements of this package is traffic control. I have noted the concern of the transport professionals and also the police, the policemen and women who control traffic in Finland, that at the moment, due to their limited resources, the police have been forced to remove the less urgent tasks, to take on the most urgent tasks. For example, this development may have left the level of traffic control, but in particular the quality, of course, of the objectives that were achieved in the last period by the then coalition-led government. Although there was a great deal of praise here for the present government by the representatives of the government parties, there was a particular effort during the last period to pay attention to the security problems that were then encountered, to comb them with the number of police officers. I hope that this development will now be taken seriously, so that this period will address this continuing decline in the number of police officers. I'm looking at a representative here. On the back of Tolvanen with the idea that perhaps even Mr Tolvanen will at some point be in favour of starting this parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u50	President! From this government proposal: it's good, it's technical. Well, that's it. As far as this interim issue is concerned, which was submitted on 4 September 2014 and the former MP, Mr Soukola, who left it: After all, it was the abolition of the mobile police and the concern about how these monitoring tasks are done on the roads. And who put an end to this mobile police officer? These are the main opposition parties at the moment. As far as this framework for central government finances is concerned: This year, an increase of 5 million was made in police activities and another 10 million in the final period. Then, in this current year's budget, 400,000 additional police training places, 4 million more in the Vitja project, 5 million more in the police service level, 2 million more in the protection police, and 5.9 million more in the protection police's SSK project, and then, at the turn of the year, the committee and Parliament added small amounts to the police, 500,000 more in the prevention of cyber pedophilia, bullying and fraud. Now, if we have looked at such tabloids as these, there have been some good-bye stories about online scams and, in a way, there has been a message that we should not go abroad to send out bigger sums and not really smaller ones, but online scams. In this way, even a small amount of investment will have a major impact on society. In my opinion, this campaign by the police has been very successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u51	Mr President! Absolutely the last speech. Unfortunately, that representative, Mr Tolppanen, was able to leave here when I said that the Minister of the Interior did not decide how many police officers or border guards or customs officers are in ports, so he does not decide on operational activities. Nor does the Minister decide when the police are working and how many patrols are working. It would be a horror if political guidance went this far to the police. Under the leadership of the Chief of Police, there are operational leaders who make those decisions. It is a fact that police funding has been too tight and resources too tight, but, as I repeat, we must make long-term decisions. Police training takes more than three years now, and now that this police shortage is being complained of, those decisions should have been taken already during the last government term. But now we have to look ahead and at least ensure that at least 400 police officers are admitted to training every year and that this number of police officers is at least kept at a reasonable level and taken care of for the overall security. There is much more to it than the number of policemen, which in itself is a very important issue. I believe that this safety of ports and ships has now been dealt with quite extensively.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u52	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u53	Mr President! Just a little bit about this. Maritime transport is a surprisingly significant source of pollution, especially in maritime areas, but the implementation of this famous sulphur directive was even detected in Tampere's measuring equipment and it was found that even up to Tampere air quality improved as maritime fuels were changed. In particular, this is important in the Baltic Sea, which is such a small sea area, and this underlines the importance of the international system of agreements, since most of the vessels that fly in Finnish territorial waters are foreign, so that Finnish legislation may not always be able to directly influence them. The Baltic Sea is known to be a very small pool and, for example, it regulates the discharges of toilet waters. One cruise ship, which still releases its toilet water into the Baltic Sea, corresponds to one Finnish city, its purified waste water volumes, in terms of nutrient intake. I know that most cruise ships are already handling their waste water and taking it to ports, but there is only one that is sufficient to cause great damage. It is very good that Finland has been active and proactive in the international maritime system, among other things, in this respect, which is a good reminder that these regulations do not come as a surprise to Finnish and Finnish shipping, as has always been said. If anyone claims that a sulphur directive came as a surprise, then he has been in the wrong profession if he claims to be in the maritime area. As can be seen from the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, this is also an opportunity, particularly in the case of polar shipping, which is also covered by this proposal. Where Finnish companies have specific expertise, which we can then also export to the world, in exactly the same way that the Finnish maritime industry has exported these sulphur reducing devices to the world since the entry into force of this sulphur directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u54	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u55	Madam President! In 2011, the Mining Act provided for the abolition of mining district rights related to gold mining after a transitional period of 9 years. This draft law proposes an extension of the transitional period from 9 to 15 years. It is not a question of cancelling the decision taken, but only of changing the length of the transitional period. In its final report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposed a transitional period of 15 years, giving good reasons. According to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the transitional period of 9 years decided by law was too short. The committee noted that an extension of the transition period would result in a proper and minimised loss of activity rather than a haste and a sudden halt. However, this was changed in a large committee. Madam President! The abolition of mining districts will, in due course, interfere with the supposed permanent right. The abolition of this right will result in financial losses for the gold miners who have invested in their company, relying on the continuity of their operations. Extending the extension would improve the protection of entrepreneurs' property. Since the decision, gold mining has been accelerated and most miners have made use of the gold reserves of their mining districts within the current transition period of 9 years. However, not everyone is able to do this. In particular, the short transition period affects those miners who, as a rule, are digging in their districts without mechanical power. For those who do not have time to make use of their territory, there will be a situation in which the supposed debt of investment will not be paid off when the mining districts have to be closed down. All in all, the mining districts affected by this matter are 27. These 5-10 benefits from extending the extension. No more than a third of the miners will be left to dig after the current transition period. By adopting this bill, the veterans of the gold countries and the legends of Lapland would be given the opportunity to complete their life's work. In assessing the matter, it should be noted that speeding up the digging process as the slump approaches may lead to the plundering of its own gold reserves. Responsible and careful work may go away as the threat of cessation approaches. In this case, the working method based on safety and environmental considerations may be weakened under an economic threat. The best solution for both entrepreneurs and the environment would be to eliminate activities in an orderly manner with minimal financial damage. Moreover, a longer extension will not allow for an extension of excavating areas. Only the existing areas would be further dug and all gold collected with professionalism and pride. The impact on the environment and on natural values would remain similar to the current situation and would even decrease. Excessive haste would be problematic, particularly with regard to the water arrangements in mining districts. There would be no harm to anyone in extending the transitional period and it would not undermine anyone's rights. The bill does not entail any costs. On the contrary, rapid abolition under the old law would increase unemployment and create new expenditure items. The State would also benefit financially if gold in mining districts could be fully exploited. The direct employment impact of gold mining activities in the Lemmenjoki mining districts is about 15 person-years. The indirect effects, such as gold and its excavating tourism and gold-related jewellery products, are about twice that. These mining districts produce approximately 25 kg of gold per year. The amount is not significant at national level, but gold can be processed locally and is obtained on the market at a multiple price compared to the world market. The turnover of EUR 2 million thus built is a very important factor in the local economy. Madam President! With this bill, a traditional and about 150 years of self-building without any subsidies and without any subsidies, a self-supporting small and traditional industry would have some extra time to adapt to the changes in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u56	Madam President! I believe that Mr Kärnä has rightly referred to the fact that the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy contained this 15 years, which then changed in the large committee. At this point, when you know this invested and estimated capital, what is believed and known to exist in that mining district, you should have the possibility that this extended period of time should be regarded as being able to provide security of property for these purposes. I am particularly concerned about the fact that, in these small-scale shovels, there are, in a way, traces of its own work, whether it is possible to have the capital invested in it. It should be possible. In that sense, I think that the proposal made by Mr Kärnä is acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u57	President! Briefly: I see myself in favour of this bill by the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-10-ps-21.u58	Madam President! Thank you very much for those words. Let us hope, together, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will make a success of this. — — — — Thank you.
