ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2017 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 14 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u2	Section 29 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u3	Mr President! Today's presentation is about changes in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Firstly, this situation was identified in the committee's deliberations. I will start there: The Ministry of Education and Culture has a budget of EUR 164 million less than in the actual budget for 2017. As a general rule, these reductions are due to the fact that, in accordance with the Government Programme, no index increases in central government contributions will be made next year, and in addition, the proposal includes reductions resulting from the Competitiveness Agreement and previous savings decisions. On the other hand, it should be stressed that, in addition to the key projects launched by the government, a number of important additional efforts will be made in education and research. Basic funding for culture and art will remain almost unchanged. In addition, the budget includes significant one-off contributions from the Fund for Undistributed Profits in Gambling. Mr President! Then let's go into the details. First of all, it is stated from the outset that the committee added EUR 100000 to the current budget for the launch of the Karelian language recovery programme. The issue of education was carefully examined. First of all, we need to start with early childhood education before we get to the basic education side. The committee stresses the importance of high-quality early childhood education and, in this respect, wants to increase the quality of basic education and early childhood education by EUR 2 million. Furthermore, the reforms that have been undertaken, both the reduction of customer fees and the experiment on the free early childhood education of five-year-olds, are very welcome and the emphasis is also on improving the level of participation. Firstly, on the basic education side, it is stated that funding for strengthening equality in comprehensive school and assisting schools in challenging areas will be increased by EUR 25 million in this budget. In this way, EUR 40.2 million will be available next year for actions promoting equality in education, the development of the quality of special education in pre-school education and basic education, and the reduction of the number of teaching groups associated with these, the recruitment of school assistants and the fight against regional inequalities in comprehensive school. The Committee considers it important to allocate these resources to combat regional inequalities in comprehensive school and also stresses that smaller classes have improved the learning outcomes of pupils with a weaker socio-economic background in particular. The Committee considers it important that resources should now be allocated to activities which will become the greatest impact. In addition, EUR 40000 is allocated to early childhood education in the Sámi language. As regards club activities, the issue was considered very important. After all, the proposed grant for club activities amounts to EUR 2.9 million, which is approximately EUR 3 million less than this year. The committee therefore decided to increase the amount of EUR 3 million to support club activities. In the Committee's view, emphasising the importance of morning and afternoon activities is also very important, and it is therefore particularly important to point out that payments must remain affordable. As far as literacy is concerned, the committee adds EUR 100000 to the project to be implemented by the Centre through the maternity clinics in order to provide parents with information on the importance of reading through the maternity clinics. Mr President! We will then move on to liberal civilised work and say that civilised work is also important in the free field, and in this respect the emphasis will be placed on this important new education in reading and writing, which now comes into the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and thus provides the opportunity for those involved in liberal civilised work to carry out this important task. The reform is justified in emphasising the adequacy of resources. Mr President! The committee will add EUR 580000 to a number of organisations, including the Finnish schools, which I am not going to list here. As regards vocational education and training, it is stated that the reform will enter into force from the beginning of 2018. There are very good healing factors, but it is also emphasised that budget cuts will become a challenge for the success of this reform, and it is considered very important that, in this situation, the provision of education is increased by 1000 years to reduce youth unemployment and meet skills needs, and that, in order to finance this, a pot is transferred from the main category of the Ministry of Education and Culture to the main category of the Ministry of Education and Culture. As far as higher education is concerned, the Committee stresses the importance of basic funding, but is also pleased with the additional efforts that are now being made. Mr President, in some words I would like to say a few words about the fact that the unification of the University of Tampere, the Tampere University of Technology and the University of Applied Sciences is an interesting new university reform which will take place and its resources must be secured. On the University of Applied Sciences side it is stated that the committee considers it important that adequate funding for universities of applied sciences is also guaranteed in the future. On the arts and culture side, the committee will make an increase of EUR 50000 in the study of the Alliance model for artists' livelihoods, and EUR 250,000 in the budget for the coming year will be allocated to the exhibition fee test. Then we add individual items to museum activities and various cultural investments to individual sums that I am not going to list here. It is also noted that a rather significant donation will be made to the capital of the Finnish-virolainen Cultural Foundation, and in this case it is stressed that it is still necessary for the Board to assess the need for the recapitalisation of the Foundation in the context of the 2018 draft amending budget. It is also important that the Foundation's governance model should be developed as far as possible. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u7	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for your encouraging words and for your cooperation with Parliament. From the point of view of education, next year will look brighter after many difficult years. The direction has changed. The turnaround of the economy to growth and the strengthening of public finances have also given us the opportunity to make new, targeted investments in education and skills. In these new additional funds, the focus has been strongly on the development of education and the prevention of exclusion. The aim is to focus the margin on measures to strengthen equality and quality in education and training on the one hand and to support growth on the other, such as ensuring the availability of skilled labour. As the chairman of the committee, Krista Kiuru, has proved, we will have a number of important additional contributions for next year's budget in the field of education. Our well-being and success have been built up and will be built on education and knowledge. That is why we are reforming the Finnish education system at all levels from early childhood education to higher education and research and to lifelong learning. The reform will cover all aspects of education: structures, funding, policies and content. Mr President! In 2018, the reform of early childhood education will continue in the next phase of the Act on early childhood education. The new comprehensive school programme will support the implementation of new curricula, accelerate the introduction of new learning environments and strengthen the community culture of schools. The objective of the upper secondary school reform, which was launched in that mid-term session, is to increase the attractiveness of upper secondary school education, strengthen the quality of upper secondary school education and the learning outcomes, and facilitate the transition from upper secondary school to higher education. The reform of vocational education and training will enter into force from the beginning of next year, when the legislative funding and guidance systems of education and the system of qualifications will be reformed. This reform is the biggest educational reform in almost two decades, and it is very important that we can support this reform and its implementation as much as possible. And the additional investment in reform support for that year will be very much needed and will be channelled in the best possible way so that vocational education and training can achieve these objectives of vocational education and training as well and as quickly as possible. Support is needed. The vision and road map of the Research and Innovation Council and the vision of higher education and research until 2030 provide a good basis for the development of higher education, research and innovation. Together with universities, the goal has been set that at least half of young adults should complete a university degree by 2030. A few words, as much as time is available, on these contributions from next year's budget: Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million from the beginning of next year. It is specifically targeted at low and middle incomes, and the sister discount, 50%, applies to all families. With this decision, we will have 6,700 families for free early childhood education. This package of rebates, which is the second in this government term, increases educational equality and at the same time improves the incentives for work. The experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds will be launched and funded. Similarly, the personnel structure of early childhood education will be developed with the aim of securing the number of skilled staff and increasing especially university-educated kindergarten teachers. In the budget for next year, there has been an increase in the efforts made by comprehensive school on gender equality, and this will be very much needed. It can support both schools in weaker regions and municipalities with low development resources in comprehensive school. I have already explained the support for the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training. Similarly, I would like to point out the reduction in youth unemployment raised by the chairman of the committee. In order to reduce youth unemployment and meet skills needs, EUR 9.4 million will be allocated to increase the supply of vocational education and training, and this funding will increase the amount of education and training by 1000 students — will be needed. EUR 5 million will be invested in raising the quality of science and mathematics education, and this budget will also show an increase in research appropriations both through the Academy of Finland and through Tekes. Similarly, we will strengthen the development of data management and HPC by a total of 12 million next year, and it will be part of a larger, wider entity that will improve the conditions for research in Finland. The research activities of universities of applied sciences are also supported by additional funding of EUR 5 million. It's a good start. These and a few other educational reforms and investments that we have are just lifts from what we do. We are going through the whole chain of the education system, because only by reforming will we be able to ensure that Finland continues to be an example of education. We have a strong knowledge base to build and keep everyone involved in the reform process. This 2018 budget supports reform by targeting the stakes where the euro is most effective in use, will best support the objectives of strong educational equality and good competence-based competitiveness. Once again, I would like to thank Parliament for its cooperation, hoping for a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u8	Mr President! In the area of responsibility for culture and art, sport, physical activity and youth work and student support, next year's draft budget includes numerous reforms and development projects. Let's start with culture and art. The aim of cultural and artistic policy is to improve the conditions for artistic and other creative work. The foundation of culture is maintained strong and vibrant. The aim is also to ensure the availability and accessibility of artistic and cultural services. A total of EUR 456.6 million is proposed in next year's budget for funding culture and art, which is EUR 6.7 million less than in the current year. The share of gambling profits in funding is EUR 244.3 million, with an increase of EUR 10.7 million compared to this year. Mr President! The Government’s top project will improve the accessibility of art and culture. The aim of the project is to increase equal opportunities for children and young people to participate in art and culture. The provision of basic art education and other arts and culture activities will be increased through guided club activities and children's cultural activities in schools. The principle of percentage art is extended to non-visual fields of art and to cover the use of artistic and cultural services in social and health care. A total of EUR 10 million has been allocated for the period 2016-2018, of which a total of EUR 2.6 million will be reserved for 2018. In total, approximately EUR 105.1 million has been earmarked for state shares in theatres, orchestras and museums. Due to changes in the cost level of the unit price, the central government shares of artistic and cultural institutions will rise by around 1.7 million compared to this year. The next item is a few withdrawals from the budget. EUR 6 million will be allocated for the capitalisation of the Finnish-Finnish-Finnish Cultural Foundation. On the basis of reciprocity, the Estonian State has made a donation of EUR 700000 to the Foundation’s capital. Supporting the Foundation’s activities by increasing its capital is linked to the 100th anniversary of both Finland and Estonia in 2017 and 2018. EUR 1 million will be reserved for the planning of the renovation of the small stage of the National Theatre. EUR 200,000 is allocated to the operating expenses of Suomenlinna Nursing Municipality, the basic renovations of residential apartments. EUR 150000 will be allocated to the implementation of the cultural tourism component of the leading tourism project as a transfer from the section of the Ministry of Employment. The incentive to produce in the audiovisual sector will be introduced. The aim is to increase Finland’s attractiveness as a place for domestic and international productions. The incentive will be implemented between OKM and TEM and its practical implementation will be carried out by Tekes. Mr President! Next up is the youth and physical activity services. The youth sector promotes the inclusion and life management of young people and supports and monitors the growth and living conditions of young people. The revised Youth Act, which entered into force at the beginning of 2017, and the national youth work and policy programme based on it, are key instruments in this work. The new means of developing youth activities will be the competence centres in the youth field that will start operating in 2018. The competence centres are responsible for developing and promoting competence and expertise in the youth field at national level. The funding of the "Youth Guarantee for the Community Guarantee" tip project will be targeted at actions to deepen cooperation between the service providers of young people and to bring together identified approaches for national use. Workshop activities and outreach activities for young people will be supported as part of the leading project. Mr President! National and local sports conditions are developed and supported by civic activities to promote physical activity. The aim is to increase physical activity in all population groups. High-level sport is developed in an effective and responsible way. In support of the development of physical activity, we are currently preparing a report on sports policy. As part of the Government Programme’s key projects, an hour’s exercise per day project will be implemented. It aims to ensure that each comprehensive school student moves for at least one hour during his or her school day. In addition, experiments will be continued at secondary schools. In 2018, EUR 7 million of key project funding will be spent on the project. Mr President! Finally, on student support. A monthly parental allowance of EUR 75 is proposed for students with families, for which EUR 10 million is reserved. An increase in the number of guardians is a significant improvement in the position of family students. It is great that the long-term goal of student organisations to consider student families in student support is realised during this Board of Directors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u9	Now we can move on to the debut. I would ask you to make a reply at your own place. Congressman Puumala will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u10	Madam President! Forward and upward, it is indeed the direction. Good things are included in that draft budget. Let's get out of training. In my opinion, the big line is to strengthen the basis that is now reflected both in early childhood education — there in numerous activities — and in primary school. There is that equality money, which hopefully will also lead to models for how to get the boys to cope, how to set up and how to avoid a Swedish road where there has been a clear decline in comprehensive school in Finland. I would see that strengthening this base is the most important thing for us. Of course, these measures are not enough in themselves, but they are good and they are in the right direction. Then the reform of vocational education and training and the support for its implementation — it needs all possible support now. It is good that there is financial support. In addition, we all need non-financial support to make reform a success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u11	Mr President! Next year will look brighter than ever, and it looks as if we are moving forward brightly to build a new future. Thank you very much for this, too, to our Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen. A few reflections. It is a great thing that we finally and finally also have funding in the field of higher education. There's flagship funding, and there's money for young scientists. They're really gonna come in handy. The goal set for the University Vision 2030 is that we have 4% of GDP in R & D expenditure. Here, as we set out to make an effort from 2.8 percent to 4%, this is a good start for it. One thing that is still worrying and that needs to be addressed at the latest in the spending limits phase is the dismantling of our applicant mountain. We have a huge number of high school students waiting for their college place, and that mountain has only grown. And our labour market needs new factors very much. I would ask: do we have the opportunity to think about the ways in which we dismantle the applicant country and the way in which the young people who:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u12	Mr President! I do not want to be a spoiler of joy, but against the background that the rise in the educational level of our Finns has stopped, regional inequality is increasing, the situation of boys and the number of exclusions is known, we would have expected more. In the past, I have backed this up: We now have 69,000 young people who have been left behind. Petri Hilli, a scientist, has estimated that it will cost 1.4 billion a year. Then we have nearly 100,000 young people under the age of 30 without a vocational qualification. These figures overlap in part, but the magnitude level indicates that this is a state of emergency that needs to be subjected to some type of national programme to tackle it. What's the government doing? Drives down the skills agenda for young adults, which was specifically targeted at these young people. The same applies to the Youth Guarantee. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u13	Mr President! Thanks to the results of the exercise policy report next year, that is in order. Regrettably, a lot of young people are dropping out of secondary school. For those who have dropped out for one reason or another, the transition to the labour market is often tangled and the prospects are weaker than those of young people who have completed one course of education. The extension of compulsory education has long been one of the solutions to the problem of exclusion. Personally, I do not believe that extending compulsory education will remove problems on a wider scale. I believe that exclusion and many other young people's problems can be prevented more effectively by increasing resources for primary and secondary education. There must be a sufficient number of teachers in schools to provide special support for those who are less well off. The importance of student guidance cannot be emphasised enough. A good guidance counselor is like a compass for young people who are lost and who points the way to life and encourages them. More resources should be allocated to activities supporting the progress of studies. P.S. The True Finns propose compulsory study for those who are these falls. How will the Minister accept this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u14	Mr President! In the autumn's budget hearings, the Education Committee of the Parliament listened to a wide range of experts from the point of view of early childhood education and comprehensive school as themes of equality and equality. The great concern that arose from there is precisely in our primary school the ability and well-being of their communities at the moment. There was an expert who said it really stopped. He has a knowledgeable, highly distinguished, long career on the educational path and says that it is fierce, that when the principals are unable, then the teachers will not be able to, and when the teachers are unable, then the students will not be able to. It appears to be a variety of symptoms. It relates above all to cutting policy, and it relates to resources. Personally, I think this is such a question that we should at the moment focus a lot of attention on how our comprehensive school can and how we can collectively make it possible for those conditions to be at least human today, here and now. It is such an area that we cannot in any way risk or take any risk, but our priority should be that we value the work of both teachers and educators and that we also appreciate the equal opportunity of every student to learn. It's loose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u15	Mr President! First of all, thank you very much for this sum of EUR 6 million from the Finnish-Finnish Cultural Foundation, which is very important. I'm glad things are still developing between our countries. We're very close relatives. In particular, I would like to highlight this support for production in the audiovisual sector, which is an incentive to pay 25% of the cost of production in Finland, and which is important to take into account, including from the previous stage and after-production. We also have a lot of companies with significant post-production, such as computer graphics, and this is also important in that, if only post-production is in Finland, it can also be supported. Of course, long films, documents, animations, television sets have been made in different Nordic countries, and I understand that there are similar kinds of subsidies. I would like to ask how this compares with these other Nordic countries. The attitude is right now that we have this film ninginfinland.fi created by the Film Foundation. Now it is becoming the right attitude, but how does this really compare with our closest competitors?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u16	Mr President! In this regard, Minister Terho referred to the separation of custody and said that it would improve the status of family students, but of course it should be made clear that their situation would be improved in relation to what it would have been after the government cuts, i.e. even after the separation of family students' income will be lower than when this government starts operating. It is therefore positive in itself that such long-awaited structural reforms have now been introduced into this study aid, but nevertheless the students have been the population that has suffered most from economic policy in Finland over the last few years, and I think it is a disgrace to this House and Parliament as a whole. But the representative Lauslahti also spoke of positive developments for next year, and when you listen to the messages from the field of vocational education and training, this message is not entirely positive, but the Amisbarometri showed that students need more local education. The surveys conducted by YLE also show that both teachers and students are concerned about how the prevention of exclusion will be successful after this reform of vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u17	Värderade Talman! Med tanke på den stora bilden inom utbildningspolitiken ter det sig som om vi i Finland saknar en heletsbaserad och långsiktig vision, och det rai oroar mig verkligen. Mindre och lite större ingrepp görs än rauh och än där, utan att vi ser helheter där allt från småbarnspedagogik till högskolevendet ingår. Vi behöver en behetssyn och långsiktighet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u18	Madam President! The reform of vocational education is certainly an opportunity for itself, but it does involve great risks, especially for those young students who would need more of these contact teaching lessons today. Of course, it could be said that the question is how to ensure the individual learning path of each student and how these students will be given sufficient opportunities in that future model to develop and study their own skills, and how then there will be enough people on the business side to guide and guide learning in the workplace. But the study path is a complete one, and if we look at the people who drop out of vocational education, the reasons are usually already there in basic education. I would have liked to ask the Minister how this vocational guidance, so-called student guidance, will be able to ensure that children and young people go to the right sectors and sectors for which they are eligible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u19	Mr President! In our south-west Finland, positive structural change has created major labour needs. Automotive factory In New Town, the shipyard and its network companies are already employing 7,000 employees. The yard’s own estimate will gradually increase to as much as 20,000 by 23 C.E. This brings with it important training needs in both vocational and engineering training. In fact, the State has provided quite a reasonable amount of funding for these needs for next year, but one year of funding is not enough, as funding will continue to be needed. The amount and quality of training must be permanently increased in line with the new manufacturing capacity of industry. The co-operation model for master's training is a good first aid for the needs of a master's degree, but it is not a sufficient solution. Southwest Finland needs its own technical faculty. It is estimated that the need for amk engineers and diploma engineers will double in south-west Finland in the next few years. The current levels and models of education are simply not enough. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u20	Madam President! Finnish school is a brand, and it is a business card for the world. Of course, professionals, i.e. teachers, go to the forefront of success and competence. That is why I am very pleased that we are now investing EUR 23 million in initial and continuing training for teachers next year. Curriculum plans and standards have been growing, and society is increasingly demanding of teaching staff, for example, in these audiovisual digital services. The Sipilä government will invest in children, families and young people in the coming years. Therefore, the reform of family leave will take place at the forefront and early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million, so more than a thousand families will be able to benefit from free early childhood education. The guardian raise of the student allowance has been on the list for a long time and can now be implemented. These investments are welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u21	Mr President! The members of the government here praise the other indeed and the ministers, even if there is no reason to do so, because there have been very many cuts in all sectors of education, and most recently, of course, this general education, which will not be spared from cuts. Mr President! In the case of young people, money has been added to the measures to catch up with young people, all in society, but at the same time the fact is that the number of young people excluded has increased. This means that the aid is not properly targeted, so that the work is not sufficiently effective. I am pleased that the programmes have been set up, but that alone is not enough. It's about the invisibility of not having the courage to take any bigger steps. As soon as the Minister of Culture’s portfolio changed, Minister Terho broke up the Youth Guarantee Task Force alone for political reasons, alone because a party called the Finns of Finland happened to break down. It was there that good work had been started to prevent the exclusion of young people. Now that you have broken up the entire group, what do you do other than make speeches? Where are the acts, how are these young people caught in society, Minister Terho?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u23	Mr President! Indeed, the Education Committee was widely consulted on equality in education. I'm sure we're all worried about that. However, it is good to remember that we have now taken a lot of measures whose effects are not yet visible, such as a change in the curriculum. The latest ones will not enter into force until next year. I think it is worth looking at the impact of the new curricula on learning outcomes and on what we are all very concerned about, such as the growing gap between girls and boys. In addition, early childhood education plans have only become available for all day care centres this year. The effects of these too will certainly be seen in years to come. Of course, we still need to keep thinking about how we can get more young people to join us. Finally, I would like to thank you in particular for reducing the fees for early childhood education. It is an excellent step towards the goal of involving more children in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u24	Mr President! There has been much discussion in Parliament about the fact that, when these mega-class cuts, which were made after a promise of training, led to a situation in Finland where it was no longer understood why, during this term of government, we still need to cut more than in the last term of government, it must be said, however, that this criticism has been bitten by Parliament, because it is now clear that the government is seeking to use these fruits of growth here on the education side so that there will be additional contributions to education. However, I believe that these additional contributions, which have now been made, are important, particularly in basic education. In the best years of education, there have been up to EUR 86.5 million in funding to promote equality. This is the best year, in practice, to strengthen equality in comprehensive school and the problems facing the most challenging schools
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u25	And before the ministers, Mr. Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u26	Mr President! There's a lot of talk in this room about extra investments. It is not a question of additional efforts, but of a minor cancellation of previous cuts that have already been made. 500 million have been cut. [Department : Where to save green?]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u27	Before the Minister, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u28	Mr President! This is not going very far, and quite a few times we have been to this debate, but perhaps it could be done again in some form. Why does it not really lead to anything: the last government's focus was, unfortunately, the cuts from the foundation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u31	Now, Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u32	Mr President! What is essential now is that the turn has taken place and that we go towards brighter times and that we are courageously able in this Chamber also to carry through reforms that will lead to a new era of education. In view of the rapid pace of world change, it cannot be answered with yesterday’s food but must continue to look to the future, to the kind of world children and young people prepare for through education. The two things that we have paid particular attention to are precisely turning the level of education into an increase — and it also involves improving learning outcomes — and, as a second whole, strengthening equality, starting from the very early years, because it is the most impressive. Just as the chairman of the committee said very well, the problem in the previous period was precisely that of the erosion of the basis, that is, the weakening of basic funding for comprehensive school. During this term of government, basic funding for comprehensive school has been fostered and these cuts have not been targeted, but rather efforts have been made to strengthen the development of comprehensive school and the implementation of new curricula. In addition, it has been possible to invest in teacher training during this term of government, and that has been our choice. In other words, when key project funding is in place, most of it goes specifically to teachers’ skills and continuing training, because it is an impressive change and at the same time provides support for teachers in hard work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u37	And Minister Terho, including three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u38	Mr President! Among other things, Mrs Elo referred to the foundation for culture set up with Estonia. It is indeed a happy thing this year. Similarly, Elo referred to production aid in the audiovisual sector, which is in fact even stronger in the competing Nordic countries, but we are still pleased that we too are now in the right direction to invest more in cultural exports, because this is, of course, an important sector and will continue to grow. Mr Andersson referred to the budgets of previous years but was apparently satisfied with next year's budget, at least with regard to the separation of custody, so I will not go on with it any longer. Mr Niikko, who apparently left — no, he is there — criticised the cuts, for which I would remind you that you yourself have accepted them. He also criticised the dissolution of the Youth Guarantee Advisory Board, but the Advisory Board has been re-established since its chairman asked for a resignation and I have appointed a new chairman, i.e. the Advisory Board is active. However, if you made reference to a number of individual appointments, such as yours, I would remind you that this is a negotiating board of the government, so there are no representatives of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u41	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u42	Madam President! I would ask the Minister whether the human resources of the strategic fund are certainly sufficient to assess and monitor the progress of these projects. It would be very important, and I also hope that there would be political guidance, that these choices and projects would have placed particular emphasis on the fact that projects supporting the completion of the profession of young people with learning difficulties should now be set in motion, so that very good approaches to secondary education resources can be found to support precisely the fact that young people with learning difficulties can graduate in such a way that we do not get school drop-outs. The same applies to specific sectoral features, for example for forest machinery drivers, where there is a particular need for new professionals, but job learning is very expensive. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is sufficient political guidance now and whether the human resources are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u43	Mr President! The Amisbarometer provided important information on how students in vocational education and training want to develop their own education and livelihood. It is very good that changes in student support are now improving the income of secondary students. There are also the largest number of family members, especially single parents. For them, this increase in guardianship is particularly important and has been commended. It is also particularly important that there is, of course, the desire for local education, which has been cut in many years, but it was almost as important to learn at work, which should be increased and invested in. At the same time that local education has been cut, however, there has not been a move towards work learning, and this is where the new amisreform is missing. Mr President! I would have talked about the accessibility of education. There has been a great deal of concern about equality between students and how it is available. Especially with regard to higher education, we will have a terrible need in the future. When it comes to getting highly educated experts in the area, how can this training be secured for them? At the moment, too much education is passed on from parents to students.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u44	Mr President! For 20 years I have worked in the fields of education, research, product development in Finland and internationally, and never — until the last six months, a year — have I received so many questions from representatives of this sector from us and from elsewhere that what Finland is doing. The representatives of this sector are pretty much on the move. As Mr Toivola said, when we listened in the Committee on Education to the issues of primary and early childhood education from the point of view of equality, the picture was weak. In fact, it was weaker than what I was prepared for. All the expert reports were in favour of it. It is therefore somewhat confusing to listen to this debate when, on the one hand, the Minister for Education talks about a bright time and reforms and, on the other hand, his fellow party member, Mr Multala, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and the Media, speaks of the effects of the changes made in peace. So we are making reforms and we want to listen to the effects, and then we have cut them in an unprecedented way. I would like to ask the Minister here: do you really believe in increasing equality and skills with this budget, with these contributions if you read
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u45	Mr President! Indeed, as I have pointed out, this is a common concern for everyone. I think that Mrs Aalto quite rightly said that this development has already gone in the wrong direction in 2006, that is, well before the beginning of this reign. I am absolutely convinced that the Ministry of Education will address this issue and will try to consider the measures that will make it possible to increase equality in education, and this is demonstrated, among other things, by the fact that the Minister has increased EUR 25 million to increase equality in education and, in addition, the Committee on Finance added EUR 2 million to it. Unfortunately, however, money is not the only thing that will help this. However, it must be pointed out that this government has not cut the basic funding for education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u47	Mr President! High-quality education requires sufficient resources, and it is therefore understandable that a lot of money is also being talked about here, because money is needed. We all know that in previous years there has been a lot of cuts in education, but this government has cut even more. Putting more money now is a good thing, but it is worth remembering that it is only one tenth of what the cuts have been. And one of the concerns is that there is a lot of different project and development funding, which in itself is all right, but when we need that basic funding for every level. Only then will we be able to guarantee adequate quality education for all. There has been great concern here that regional disparities are increasing, and that is quite true. Some municipalities have been able to correct these cuts that the government has made to early education, but some have not. And this would be extremely important if we were to guarantee the right to subjective early childhood education everywhere in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u48	Mr President! We've already been told here that the capital region, Pirkanmaa and south-west Finland will get the right information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u51	Madam Speaker! There has been talk here of the actions of the various governments, but the question is, of course, that, in the run-up to the last elections, all the parties committed themselves to a promise of training at TV screens. That's the big question. At the same time that educational promise was betrayed, it seems that some other promise was made, and that was that Finnish society, its competitiveness, its future, was taken care of by apparently improving cost competitiveness by reducing wages, cutting holiday money and shifting employers' obligations to workers. On the education side, Finland has lost its reputation and real ability as a society for research, knowledge and education. And the question is: can these small packages, a tenth patching into past cuts, restore this reputation better than, above all, the real content of Finland's return to a society of civilisation, education and research?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u52	Madam President! The focus is on education and education, and it is good that more resources can now be channelled there. For example, lowering early childhood education fees will bring nearly 7,000 families into free early childhood education and the standard average Finnish family's contributions will fall by over 1200 euros. I am also pleased that sport is being invested in and a report is also being made, where a little more can be seen in this whole. Thank you, Minister Terho. But this educational populism of the Greens goes further and further. Why, Mr Aalto, do you not talk at all about the billion that was saved from education and education when you were in the government? Why don't you guys start canceling it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u53	Mr President! I am replying to Mr Heinos, and I think it is a good thing that the representatives of the delegation also remember the last parliamentary term. During the last parliamentary term, all the parties made mistakes, and so much was cut off from education — the Greens were also involved, I admit that quite openly. And it happened that at some point all the parties came to the conclusion that there has been too much cutting now,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u58	Mr President! So now that it has been stated, this kind of educational vow came from all the parties, because during the last parliamentary term it was found already cut too much of the education. I admit it, I'm sorry it came to this. After the elections, the current Minister of Education gave a speech in which he said that a choice of values would not be cut off from education. This promise of training has been broken several times by this government. One billion euro per year has been cut from education and training. It is a huge sum and has taken education in the wrong direction considerably. During this government, words of reform and development in the area of education have taken on a completely new meaning. They're synonyms for surgery these days.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u61	Mr President! This is the Finnish Parliament, not the museum. We do not save Finnish civilization by looking in the rear-view mirror and remembering the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u66	Everyone will be given the floor, Mr Rinne next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u67	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa's speech is precisely the new language that has now taught us to talk about education during this parliamentary term: reform and cutting are synonyms. For this government, development and cutting are synonymous when it comes to education policy. Mr President! Now is the time to focus on that future. We have all made mistakes during the last parliamentary term and backwards, but now is the time to look ahead. This government should keep the promise made before the elections, which Mr Grahn-Laasonen spoke of as a choice of values after the elections in his May Day speech. Now is the time to make a choice that cancels the cuts that have led to the loss of jobs for thousands of people and universities that diplomas are not available when there are no people who write them. You have the power to make adjustments — do, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, do not talk about reform and development when you talk about cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u68	Mr President! You can understand that this is an awkward thing and a subject for the assembly,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u71	Mr President! The need for vocational and polytechnic education is growing throughout Finland, and reform is indeed needed in many respects. The growth of Kainuu's national product was fastest in Finland in 2016. The value added was up to 7 per cent, which is more than double that of the rest of Finland. Against this background, one might think that we also currently have a need for experts in the metal, tourism, software and transport sectors, and we still have a relatively smaller level of vocational training than in the rest of Finland, on average, and it is being reduced all the time. Finally, the fact that graduates of vocational training prefer to move in the direction of the south rather than in the direction of the north is taken into account, so the need for training in this particular place is greater than the average. I would like to ask the Minister for an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u72	Madam President! I am surprised at this painting, which attempts to describe the entire government's education policy as cuts. For example, this reform of vocational education and training, which is the most important reform of education policy during this parliamentary term, is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u73	Madam President! In the reform of vocational education and training, the Committee considers it important to ensure quality and adequate local education in the implementation of the reform. At the same time, trainers in many fields, such as the Education Commission on Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology, also pay attention: "Because of the characteristics of the electricity sector, learning alone in the workplace cannot fill the gaps in skills created by the decline in local education. The study and training of safe working practices in accordance with regulations requires local education and guidance, as well as a safe learning environment, because skills cannot be studied independently or carried out at a distance without endangering the safety of the student or his/her immediate circle. There have already been serious shortcomings in the skills of those with basic qualifications in the field, and there has been an increasing drop-out of periods of study for students, which has led to reluctance and a high level of preparedness to take on-the-job learners in general." That is why it is important that reform should be monitored and amended if necessary, so that we can continue to have
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u74	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that the skills programme for young adults carried out during the last term of the government was very impressive. More than a thousand young adults received upper secondary education and qualifications, and the careers of these young adults will increase by several years as they pass secondary education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u77	Madam President! Government reform projects in the field of education are welcome, but of course the most important thing is to ensure an adequate level of basic funding. The pace of reforms on the education and training front is fierce and we are not opposed to green reforms — it has to be said that there is a momentary impression that there is now going to be a series of isolated reforms without an overall plan. At different levels of education, the pace is high, new reforms will take place, for example, on the upper secondary school side, at the same time that there is no time to collect experiences from the previous one: digitalisation, transition to electronic writings, new ops, upper secondary school trial and now high school reform. I ask the Minister: is there an overall plan for the development of the Finnish education system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u78	Mr President! It has been said here that looking forward to the future, and fine, I agree. That is why I believe that a few bigger things, which are very important in principle, require measures, the first of which is early childhood education. Decisions should still be taken during this period on the transition to partial free early childhood education. Can the government do this? Secondly, equality in education and training requires a comprehensive and long-term action programme. Is the government preparing such a comprehensive programme? Third point: The vision of higher education in 2030. When do we see government proposals that respond to existing problems? Now the government has the place of a thousand dollars to inform Parliament of future development projects aimed at the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u79	Mr Gustafsson and then the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u80	Chairman! Generally, it is not worth explaining, but it offends me when it is said here by the Assembly that the reforms have been frozen for a long time. I listed 5 to 6 which, for example, were launched during my ministry: Early childhood education was transferred from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Education and Culture. We made an hourly shift in comprehensive school, and a new curriculum was prepared. A massive equality program was launched, unheard of. 86 million to reduce group sizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u83	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u84	Mr President! I would like to address Mr Rinne in particular. You can make fun of and laugh about the government's development work here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u91	Minister Terho, including three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u92	Mr President! I don't think I need three minutes, that much more has been addressed to the other minister. However, on the annual reform, Mr Gustafsson, when you specifically addressed me with this question: I am sure you have followed a process that has been a long one, and now it will culminate in that at the beginning of the year, i.e. on 17 January, I will now receive this report from the experts and recommendations on measures. Then I can comment in more detail. At this point I can only say that we should wait there and then start this more detailed debate. These young people, who are at risk of exclusion or who are already partially excluded, have then been highlighted. I shall just briefly mention once again the long list of measures, or indeed programmes, which we have in relation to these NEETs. We have a hobby moon, we have Ohjaamo activities, we have a Youth Guarantee in the direction of a Community guarantee, we have a national youth work and policy programme, which means that this has been taken very much into account in our actions. In general, I can say from the debate that it follows a familiar pattern. The opposition's electoral programs would have turned into a government programme as such, the past is remembered and the future is planned. However, I can see that the consensus here between the opposition and the government parties is completely unbreakable, that Finland's future will be based on a high level of education and knowledge. In that sense, it is a very comforting situation that we all have a shared vision of the direction to take this country and an understanding that everything must be kept with us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u93	Let us continue the debate and let us start with those representatives who have not yet been allowed to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u94	Madam President! In this debate, however, we have had a great deal of history, but I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the state of central government and public finances has improved. Just as the ministers have rightly pointed out here, when the economy in the country is improving, there is work for people, tax revenue is developing, it is inevitable and directly it is also a positive result for the local economy. After all, they are in this country, which teach their students, children. Through the well-being of local government finances, new labour is employed, a skilled teacher with a role in the municipality, school assistants, schools are being set up and so on. It would be a good thing, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that one day you too will wake up to the fact that many good things have happened, not because Christmas is the reason, but because the economy has really improved here. You have to be patient. I understand that it pains you when things get better. But it doesn't get bad by yelling, because Christmas is still coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u95	Mr President! A recent survey of the effects of day care savings decisions has revealed the same problems that I have been told about when I was visiting seven day care centres in the last few months. In many day care centres, the current situation has been described as worrying, even critical, in some cases. Group sizes have grown, children’s anxiety has increased, children come and go, permanent groups cannot be formed, adults are exhausted, young children and preschoolers may be in exactly the same group. Do you think this went right, because the implementation of high-quality early childhood education now depends on the municipality in which the child happens to live? In some municipalities these savings have not been made and in some municipalities they have been made. Is it really appropriate to cancel these savings decisions because they destroy our equal early education?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u96	Mr President! An important and significant structural reform will take place in the Finnish higher education field, as the current Tampere University and Tampere University of Technology merge at the beginning of 2019. At the same time, the university becomes the main owner of Tampere University of Applied Sciences. Creating an international framework for Tampere
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u100	Madam President! To this last speech, under the option of the SDP, this funding would be sufficient. It is incomprehensible that this unique reform, the right reform, will not be adequately funded. President! I have to say, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, that sometimes a little humility would not be bad, a little humility for you to have made billion-dollar cuts in education after you broke your educational promise, which was given by the convention. Are you still in the heat of your own May Day speech — when you promised not to cut off education and make a choice of values — that you simply do not even remember that you have so much of a problem with education now, and all the experts are very critical of these cuts in education and training there in the Committee on Finance and also in the Section on Education and Science? It doesn't help to say it's cheery if the bottom's been chewed. Local education has been cut from vocational training,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u101	Madam President! It would certainly be desirable for us to start looking to the future and a little constructively [Left: Hey we're developing, hey we're cutting!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u102	Mr President! I am particularly concerned about the costly structure of vocational training. What will happen to it next year when funding is cut but the effects of reform are not yet visible? In particular, logistics, construction, forestry and mining training requires a particularly large number of equipment and must be able to purchase them and provide training. The equipment is expensive, but there is often a particularly good level of employment in these sectors, i.e. it is very important for the industrial structure and industry. Mr President! The importance of early childhood education for the whole of life and society as a whole has been better understood in recent years. It is particularly important to compensate for the socio-economic differences between children and ensure equal conditions for living. This would be the right time to cancel the right to early childhood education, as many municipalities have done. These child inequality savings are minimal, the effects are poor, and this principle
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u104	Mr President! Minister Terho here listed a long list of measures specifically taken to prevent the exclusion of young people, but it was not enough to add one more to the list. The Minister probably did not know that, because the Committee on Finance has increased it: EUR 400000 specifically in relation to this exclusion of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u107	Madam President! First of all, I would like to congratulate the assembly. These days you will have 10 and a half years since you have been on the government of the country. In the face of the decline in central government finances, the turning of the debt clock and now also in education policy, you see the failure of the present opposition as the cause of the present opposition, when you yourself have been at the helm of central government and politics for 10.5 years. It is precisely in recent days that an escalating policy has been identified as the reason for the decline in education and inequality in Finland. It is all right to look back, so that you can look forward to the future and try to build something on the ruins on which the next government will like this policy way of rebuilding again. I ask the Minister: why are you opposed to extending compulsory education? Would it not be a good idea to extend compulsory education on the vocational education and training side, for example, for young people who intend to be excluded from society by other means?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u108	Mr President! We're running low on opposition fins, aren't we? I have to say that the record has remained the way it is, you know, turning around, that it's just looking back and repeating the same thing. In other words, you can say that we have a place here to think about solutions. In view of what the government has gone on to do, the government has now genuinely gone to build new solutions to respond to the rapidly changing society around us. We simply cannot remain in our place in this situation. Reform of vocational education and training. There are real reforms, personal learning paths, new models for learning at work. Young researchers will be taken on the university side, who will be the creator of the future. They're targeting more money. One can say that the government has accepted the challenge and has gone out of the way to find new answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u109	Mr President! Here, when these constructive proposals were needed, the first could be to learn from the mistakes — both in terms of the savings made over the last period and also in terms of the savings made over this period. Even the euro, I believe, was not cancelled by this government last season's savings; they are all valid and are gnawing down on that knowledge base. The second is that it would be worthwhile to change the course in the middle of the day when we see that we are going in a bad way, and this is precisely the case with early childhood education, when we look at this issue of group sizes as well as cutting down the subjective right to day care. The messages that come from the field are, of course, worrying in that this report, which was published today, used the term that day-care centres have become hollitup. It's a pretty serious language, and it's worth getting involved in. The third would be that it would be worth genuinely investing in this genuinely free second stage, so that no one's study path would end because, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u110	Madam President! Much has been said here about this long curve and the cuts in education that have been made by both the previous and the present government. They can't get away from this gym. However, it has to be said that the reforms that the previous government had not completed have been carried out in connection with, for example, the reform of vocational education and training, which is indeed the biggest reform in vocational education and training for decades. However, I would like to speak on another point and thank the Committee on Finance for remembering the Sámi language nests and for providing us with an additional EUR 300000. In time, additional funding for language nests was already provided in the government negotiations, and it is of course very important to us in the north that the Sámi language remains alive for future generations. But surely all of our emails have been filled with worry, which is what socio-nomic early education staff have. After all, Minister, in the future they will be on the same line as kindergarten teachers when making the road map for early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u111	Madam President! I have to say in that direction of the assembly, yes, I can say what a wash of hands. Last season you have been cutting out education, despite the promise of education you continue to cut and have made massive cuts, and then, when you add something small, it will be hypocritical here in the hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u114	Mr President! In an earlier speech, the Minister called for solutions and spoke a lot from the point of view of reform. I absolutely agree with the reforms. Personally, I think that the Minister's strength is certainly in favour of reform and its ability to bring new types of actors and partnerships into education and training. But what I still wish for and lack of solutions is how we secure on our way to a new one, that we do not have such surrogates. For the children and young people who are currently there in the various educational institutions and in the education system, the everyday reality at the moment seems to be that we have those surrogates coming. One solution could be to cancel at least some of these cuts in education and even if we somehow earmark them as some kind of human resource for all educational institutions at national level, that we could at least, to some extent, make sure that there is a sufficient number of pedagogically qualified adults in general, which could also be extremely valuable on the way to reform that is always the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u115	Mr President! The Government Programme thus states that the Youth Guarantee will be developed in the direction of the Community guarantee during this Government term. This means deepening cooperation between the public, private and third sectors in support of young people. This was taken as a guideline by the True Finns when they set out for this government. On a practical level, it still does not matter to us how you do it with the Youth Guarantee Task Force, Minister. I'm not the key person that's been there. I'm the grass-roots experts you threw out of there. It was a full political game, and that is unacceptable. We should stick to those experts who in this society are able to give the best advice on how to break exclusion. Now the government has stopped all these good deeds since this party field broke down. During the previous two years, for example in December, the government always divided several million euros into work for young people, as well as food aid, where the poor and the marginalised were supported by several million euros. And this year, you dare to come and explain to me that you've fixed something here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u116	Mr President! I understand that the government programme, which was approved by Mr Niikko, is still in force, and next year's budget, which we are dealing with now, which has, of course, already been discussed by the government in the spring and then in the debate on the budget, and which was then, among other things, dealt with by Mr Niikko, is also here on the table. But there's room for talk in the world. Instead, I must say that I appreciate Mrs Rinnetta when you said that it was a mistake for you to see the cuts in education that the previous government did, and I think it is always a man to admit if mistakes are made. As far as this government is concerned, the situation which must then be looked back will come after four years when even voters will decide what they think about the operation of this government. But I would like to highlight the issue of production aid in the audiovisual sector. It is estimated that it even doubles the volume of these large international productions in Finland, with more than EUR 40 million increasing the turnover of Finnish companies. I understand that the minister in question is naturally modest and did not bring this up, but someone has to make such an important point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u117	Mr President! This is awkward. In the Education section, we have had to find out what kind of investments, what kind of cuts have been made. I now draw attention to the fact that there is no doubt in this society as to how these things have gone. In that respect, Parliament should look in the mirror and stop squabbling about whether or not education has been cut off. That information is available to everyone. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party] I, too, draw attention to the fact that we have had to have a debate on words of influence and reform. Traditionally, reforms have been more like those that have improved the current situation, and those reforms have also been made by this government. But the reforms that only make cuts under the name of reform have been significantly reviewed, and I do not go into detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u118	Mr President! First of all, these surgeries. They're real. I'm sorry they had to be made. We do not consider them to be good, but we will not be able to move forward if we get stuck in them. It is also unfortunate that in the opposition you say that the cuts have been bad, but you will not find real money in your alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u121	Mr President! Quite directly to Mr Sarkomaa: they would be financed by cancelling the tax reduction on the government's millions of inheritances, canceling the reduction in forest gift tax, canceling the pharmacy deduction. New insurance cover tax will be introduced, new financial sector taxation will be introduced. These could all be cancelled, as we have done in every alternative budget, by cancelling these billion-dollar training cuts. There are alternatives, you can make value choices. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u124	Mr President! First of all, Mr Heinonen was actually the one who, at an early stage of this debate, looked back in time, not the opposition. Let us also say that the Committee on Culture and Education and Parliament have dealt with a very large number of legislative proposals relating to education. We have not opposed reforms, that is, genuine reforms to improve the functioning of education, but only the cuts you call reforms. However, having asked for constructive speeches, I would continue to look to early childhood education. In my view too, or at least according to the Minister, the government's aim is to increase the participation rate in early childhood education, and that is precisely where I believe that the government's policy has been very inconsistent. The reduction in early childhood education fees is a good decision, but it is also an economically important contribution, but if the aim is to increase participation rates, then why is there a formal limitation of the right to participate with this restriction of subjective day care rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u125	Now that all Members respect the maximum length of speech, i.e. 1 minute, everyone will have the opportunity to speak before the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u126	Madam President! According to the Federation of Finnish Teachers, "universities are at risk of becoming companies that produce mass lectures out of the conveyor belt". This was the vision of the Federation of Finnish Teachers. I am glad, Madam Minister, that there is going to be more investment in teacher training. But I now have some doubts as to whether these additional contributions are now to the additional and additional training required by the new operating environment for schools or whether there will be some investment in the basic training of teachers. I am very concerned that in Finland, where we are known to have the best teachers in the world, we from the higher education field and students and the OAJ will be sending out a message that local education from teacher education will disappear. Teachers are about to take a letter class, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u127	Madam President! The title "Post politics and savings have caused day care in chaos" — I started this morning by reading the paper. This reform has therefore been led by the fact that the law allows group sizes to be increased and the law allows subjective day care to no longer exist. These are, therefore, legislative reforms and cuts have been made. In early childhood education, the Coalition Party also wanted increases in early childhood education fees before the Parliament decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u130	Mr President! Perhaps between you and Minister Terho, you'll stay warm in that box if you allow a sports comparison, because I thought I'd refer to sports. After all, Parliament's Committee on Culture and Parliament have always raised different issues from the cultural point of view, which have always moved forward. Borrowing compensation was one such thing. It was held up for years. Now the first money has been accounted for — great. Then the other is really this incentive system in the audiovisual sector, that is, making films in Finland and coming to Finland. It was required for a long time. It's done. Now you have noticed that, for the second time in that budget, there was an increase of some EUR 1 million for athletes, that is to say young athletes. There's a scholarship system, there's that academy system, and there's the URA Foundation's money, which makes up a total of EUR 965000. The idea is that there should be new idols and those young people who live below the poverty line would get over it, new idols would come and thus encourage the whole population to take a physical life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u131	President! Now, Minister, it seems that this reduction in early childhood care fees is a very good thing, but it is not all of them now. Among other things, it does not target families who were deprived of subjective day care rights. It's not about them. Moreover, it does not apply to the people who are hit by Lindström's list of strongest people who are being cut because of unemployment, because their children stay at home because they do not have subjective day care rights. Have you thought about that? Are you also aware, Minister, that at the moment in vocational schools there has already been a reduction in the number of teachers and teachers from vocational schools, especially here in southern Finland? That's a very bad thing. In addition, in primary schools, one teacher takes care of ADHDs,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u132	Mr President! One in three families reports that children cannot take part in hobbies because of the family’s financial concerns, and this is not right. "Additional permission", Minister for Sport Therho, however, you said at the parliamentary Question Time. Why are you not going to add money to the activities of local clubs and organisations? Instead, you promised the mobile app — so you heard correctly: the mobile app — that the child could visit the hobby for free a couple of times. Did you know, Minister, that it is already possible for many hobbies to get to know each other for free, but it is the children who cry when they do not actually get to the hobby, regularly, because of their high fees. And the biggest problem is not finding a hobby, but that a child cannot do the hobby of his dreams because of a lack of money. What are you gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u133	Mr President! I remember asking the government in the first Question Time of 2016 about the intention to increase early childhood education fees. We went to a brisk debat, and those in this room also took part. The government deserves to be commended for your fact that you are now doing the opposite and that you are reducing early childhood education fees. Of course, we in our alternative budget would reduce them for even more families, but this is the right direction. OAJ has stated that Finland invests the least in basic education in the Nordic countries. That is why it is a little grotesque that we have had a debate where black is painted white and everything is looking bright now. More than 100,000 people under the age of 30 still lack a place of education after basic education. That is why we have put forward the constructive proposals that have been requested in our alternative budget, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u134	Mr President! The opposition has criticised the cuts in education, but the representatives of the SDP have laudably forgotten their own electoral programme, which commits you to a cut of EUR 800 million from the indexes. That would have meant that the municipalities would have much less money available for basic education, which, however, is building the foundation for children and young people. The fact is, too, that Sipilä’s government received a very bad legacy from its predecessors: 100,000 unemployed, losing competitiveness, which is heavily in debt. It was therefore necessary to take drastic decisions both to improve competitiveness and to adjust expenditure, and the results are now visible: the economy is growing, employment is improving, and competitiveness has improved. This can then also ensure that the foundations of the welfare society are maintained from education to health care in the future. So even though we are talking about one section of discussion, it would be good to remember this big picture, which nevertheless determines the development of the Republic of Finland and Finnish society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u135	Mr President! Mr Rantakanka is forced to say at the outset that the very first fundamental pillar of competitiveness, Finland's competitiveness, is competence, that is education, so that's it. But the minister asked for concrete proposals, solutions to the problems. Of course, what is most striking here is the weak cooperation of the government between the ministries. We are talking here about the administrative sector of OKM, we are talking about individual projects, such a fragmented world, while at the same time, for example, the working model of Ohjaamo operations requires the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to be closely involved in these matters, and this is clearly visible in cities, municipalities, industry, because the problem of encounters that we actually have between people and working life is obvious. So I ask you: how do you intend to act in the Government so that, for example, the entire Government commits itself to moving forward with this problem of confrontation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u136	Mr President! The SDP is not against reforms, but we are against cuts,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u139	Mr President! We are all concerned here if young people are excluded from the learning process. We know that one critical point is when comprehensive school ends and moves to second grade. Teaching places have now been added to secondary vocational education and training, and that is an excellent thing, but we know that it is not enough, because many students have to drop out of their studies. One of the reasons is — even a third of the reason — financial concerns, so this would be something that needs to be corrected so that the second level does not cost so much, because even though the teaching is free, the materials really cost a lot. The second is that we should have support for that student to move to secondary school after primary school. We have guidance in comprehensive school, we also have it in vocational schools, for example, but there will be a break. We Greens have presented this joint phase with this kind of support-study guidance, which would start from the comprehensive school and continue to the second stage
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u140	Mr President! I would like to return a little to the other aspect, to that aspect of culture and to the part of Minister Terho, where there is still a lot of work to be done and good things to be done. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for the fact that the artist alliance got wind under the sails and for the additional funding of EUR 50000 to enable us to get it started and hopefully at some point the pilot from the artist alliance. This means that it is, you can say, a reverse unemployment security model with a community background. Another issue that is under way is the state-owned system of performing arts, which is also bringing excellent new solutions to the already existing challenges. Just a question for Minister Terho: what opportunities do we have for additional funding for the implementation of the state aid system for performing arts, so that it can then:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u141	Mr President! There was a call for a solution-oriented approach, which of course is always a good slogan, but perhaps in education, when it comes to very long-term activities, it is good to talk about effectiveness and its evaluation when these solutions are chosen. And even at the risk of being accused of rear-view mirrors, I will take up the same issue as Mr. Mika Kari lived on this matter of compulsory education and the second degree. Last season, one very effective and impressive reform was a guarantee of education as part of the Youth Guarantee. With Pekka Stormylä, we have been going through the statistics for more than ten years and there we have seen a very significant change in how our young people have actually started secondary since the education month came into force. Thus, there has been a change of several percentage points over the past two or three years when the training month has been in force. After this effectiveness, it is very difficult to justify why a logical continuum would not be an extension of compulsory education and therefore also a solution to this matter of payment. Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u142	Mr President! An hour of exercise per day is, in my opinion, one of the most important projects of this government. Why? Because immobility is an invisible and slowly gnawing phenomenon of health and well-being, leading to increasing healthcare costs and also to deteriorating learning outcomes. At a time when the activities are expanding to the second stage through experiments, we should actively consider how to stabilise them from early childhood education to secondary education. In my hometown of Vantaa, every day care centre is a mobile day care centre. This should be the case throughout Finland. Mobility habits start to separate at the age of three, which is why the work of early childhood education and clinics is very important in promoting physical activity. In addition, now that the Amisbarometri has highlighted the growing loneliness, physical activity increases not only well-being but also sociality. I therefore think it would be worth considering whether there are possible keys here to reducing loneliness in Ambi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u143	And the representatives Nylander and Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u144	Mr President! Of course, the government is also doing good things, and one of the projects that I think should be discussed more in Parliament is this experiment where municipalities are allowed to advance language teaching. I really hope that this will lead to something in the future, that all municipalities will advance language teaching in the future and thus diversify language teaching. I understand that the aim is to create some kind of national language strategy or vision. I would now like to ask when we are going to see some concrete measures on these experiments and projects that are going on. Secondly, Mr President. I hope that the Minister will be able to take a position on the issue of equality. Many of us have called for such a long-term, comprehensive programme of measures or vision, a strategy that deals with equality from early childhood education to primary and secondary school and so on. It would be important to have answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u145	Mr President! I would also like to say, on behalf of colleagues in Parliament, that combating inequality and increasing equality are themes that will certainly unite us. In that regard, I would like to call for even greater means to be made available when there is economic growth to combat this inequality. At the beginning of the year, OAJ examined the measures taken by different municipalities in this theme. In fact, one in two municipalities last year has cut the hour frame, reduced the number of hours allocated or increased the number of group sizes. This is serious because one of the biggest explanations seems to be that these equality funds are no longer nearly 90 million, but 40.2 million. It is also linked to the fact that the Minister has argued that there is no separate item of money to reduce the size of the group, but that all the money is now being put in by the fact that this has not become effective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u146	Now is not the time to reply, let us move on to the ministers, but let us start with Minister Terho and Mr Grahn-Laasonen at the end. — Minister Terho, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u147	Mr President! This may leave more time to answer Grahn-Laasonen, good order. The cougar brought up this million and whether it could be transferred to the spending limits. Well, the government is about to launch a report on sports policy, which I have launched, in which this can be considered. This report also involves improving young people's leisure opportunities, to which Mr Taavitsainen referred, not so much in his question but in his mockery of trying to increase the opportunities for young people's leisure activities. However, this will also be the case in this report, as well as in the case of the hobby passport, which I will take forward in spite of your opposition. Mr Lauslahti then raised the issue of the reform of the VOS. Really 17.1. I get a report on it, then we'll listen to the deposition. The distance to the finish line is still, let's say, medium length. The additional funding will not then be my decision alone, it is also the Orpo and the whole government, but, of course, for my own industry, where culture is very important, I am prepared to defend any well-founded additions. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u148	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes, had so many questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u149	Mr President! Thank you to Parliament for a good debate. — Today’s topic is precisely the budget for next year and what we will then be able to do here next year in the knowledge and education sector, and that is precisely the change in direction both in the economy and here in the knowledge budgets. I calculated and added together that the government's additional investment in this knowledge and education in the mid-term and budget debate amounted to 399 million. Some are one-off and some for several years, some permanent and thus one-off. Research efforts through the Academy of Finland – young researchers have focused on these key projects in recent years. We have wanted to encourage researchers at the beginning of their careers. Through Tekes, funding for this data-driven research, i.e. research infrastructure. Innovation vouchers. Mechanical wood construction. Significant reductions in early childhood education fees already mentioned at the beginning of next year and a free trial of early childhood education for five-year-olds. The development of a staff structure in early childhood education, i.e. we respond to the need for labour force specifically for kindergarten teachers with pedagogical training. Strengthening the equality of comprehensive school is certainly one of the most important priorities in the budget for next year — we all want to ensure and strengthen educational equality in this Chamber, and it is the country from early childhood education and from primary school to the strongest start. Support for the implementation of vocational education and training reform. More places to prevent youth unemployment. Extension of network cooperation between universities. Research activities of polytechnics. The guardian increase of the student allowance on Minister Terho's property. Support for positive structural change. Responding to the shortage of beneficiaries — very significant additional efforts made in the amending budget and in the budget with a rapid timetable. Conversion training, on which there were good speeches, including by Mr Jaskar in this Chamber. Development of education in science and mathematics. Here is a list of these investments that have been made, i.e. they are significant, although of course they do not compensate for the savings that have been made because the economy has been very tight in Finland. Now, too, we are moving towards a brighter time. The strengthening of local government finances is certainly one of the best news that we can have in the education sectors, since municipalities are the providers of education and form the basic funding that has been discussed here many times. Then we have asked about these future prospects, visions, reforms in education, and I would like to highlight three of the most important priorities in my view, which at the same time contains the answer to many of the questions that have been raised here. The three main priorities are: Early years, i.e. developing early childhood education and bringing early childhood education to the whole age group. The rate of participation is now being increased, inter alia, through reductions in fees and free early childhood education. Another large entity is strong basic knowledge and skills. Strong early childhood education and a strong comprehensive school, responding to the concern that 11 per cent will complete comprehensive school without achieving the variety of reading skills that can cope with second grade and life. There are many good new ideas for strengthening literacy in the National Literacy Forum and in the activities of the Literacy Centre, and Parliament also drew attention to this and Mr Sarkomaa gave a good speech. In other words, strong basic knowledge and skills are strengthened that allow continuous learning tools to respond to the changes we are facing in society and in working life at an accelerating pace. The third big entity is continuous learning. Perhaps one of the biggest issues in the reform of vocational education and training is the creation of continuous learning structures, which means that in the future vocational education and training can complement it more flexibly than in the past. It is a big change, and similar structures of continuous learning are also needed for other levels of education. They are needed for higher education, and that is what we will focus on in the coming spring on the implementation of the vision for higher education and research in 2030. The aim is to find structures with universities that support continuous lifelong learning and also create opportunities for continuing education for those with higher education, opportunities for complementary skills. This is what we will be returning to during the spring. Similarly, in spring, there is a large entity linked to the next phase of the early childhood education law, where the focus is on quality development, focusing specifically on staff structure and competence. And reform of high school is, of course, something that we still have to go through in this Chamber. I would like to thank Parliament for this debate and cooperation and wish everyone a peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u150	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u151	The general debate on Section 29 of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which has been suspended yesterday, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u152	Mr President! Although it is already two o'clock at night, we are talking about such an important subject when we talk about education that I want to be here to speak, because Finnish high-quality and free education is the most important condition for all citizens to have equal opportunities in life, regardless of their background, and only permanent funding can bring about lasting changes in the lives of children and young people and strengthen Finland's most important resource, namely skills. In their alternative budget, the Greens made an investment of half a billion euros in education and training. We would prefer to cut back on the harmful subsidies that have been found to be ineffective in terms of competitiveness, in support of the fossil economy, in the return of the energy tax on industry and in the capping of emissions rather than in education. Of course, government projects and additional investments, even small ones, are welcome in relation to cuts. However, it is very important to ensure an adequate level of basic funding. Teachers need permanence and continuity. The Government invests a total of 200 million in various key projects. Project funds have been allocated to teacher training, to accelerate the uptake of digital materials, to the one-hour exercise per day target and to language experiments. The Greens are not opposed to key projects and have not been removed from our shadow budget. The Greens want to restore the right of all children to day care and group sizes and move towards free early childhood education by starting with five-year-olds who would be offered four hours of free early childhood education every day. In the municipalities where the restriction on the right to day care has been implemented, little savings have been achieved. Now that the government is also pushing for a change in the so-called active model of the Unemployment Protection Act, the unemployed parents are in a stalemate if the child cannot obtain a day-care place. How, then, should an unemployed parent’s activity required by the government show — these required five working days or training days every 65 days? High-quality early childhood education belongs to every child. It is the most cost-effective way to prevent child inequality from an early stage. Group sizes should not be increased, since they have a significant impact on the quality of early childhood education, which undermines it. We all know how quality early childhood education improves learning opportunities for children and reduces the risk of exclusion. Mr President! The government has first cut 45 million from primary school and then invested 15 million back in it. We would like to invest more in high-quality basic education than the government and to support schools in particular, where there is the greatest need for additional resources. Gender equality in education is at risk as differences between schools increase and the inheritance of education increases. This development must be stopped. The objective should also be to set a genuinely free secondary education and a clear level increase in student funding for all students, from EUR 250 to EUR 333 for example, and the student grant should finally be indexed from 2019 onwards. However, vocational training is the one that has been subjected to the most severe cuts. Cutting off vocational training is cutting off young people's future, skills and working conditions. A recent national Amisbarometer shows that young people would like more education. The cuts have focused directly on the quantity and quality of teaching. The number of people in need of contact teaching has increased by nearly 15 per cent compared to the previous Amisbarometri. Unfortunately, when you look at the budget book, you get the impression that the Amis are not very valuable in the government's world of values. However, vocational studies are valuable and certainly not a place to go because of bad grades. The government started cutting just before the reform of vocational education and training. This method of "cut first and then reformed" is untenable. The Greens are in favour of a reform of vocational education and training, but the way in which it is done now raises great concern. Quality and accessibility of vocational education and training must be ensured. It means more start-up places, more local education and teachers and more support for pupils also in moving
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u153	Mr President! The Finns Party has 113 amendments to these government proposals, 10 of which can be found here on the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Finns of Peru are concerned about the future of quality education for all levels of education, because without quality education we will not be able to keep this education system, which is vital for the competitiveness of our country. Finland’s investment in the knowledge-based Pisa study has decreased since 2006. In that sense, concern about the direction of education is justified. The Finns also draw attention to the fact that the number of comprehensive schools in the whole country has decreased since 2005 by around 1,000 schools since the state had removed the supplement for small schools. The Finns Party believes that the government must take measures to ensure regional equality in order to safeguard the operating conditions of village and local schools. Not everyone can move to growth centers. We are particularly concerned about the fact that in 2016 there were approximately 115,000 persons aged between 20 and 29 in Finland who did not have a secondary degree. The share has risen since the beginning of the 21st century. According to Statistics Finland, the level of education has a major impact on the employment opportunities of young people: an unemployed person under the age of 30 is employed with a probability of about 50 per cent, upper secondary education with a probability of almost 40 per cent and comprehensive school with a probability of only 17 per cent. That is why it is particularly important that the government and parliament help to get on the educational path of the young adults who do not follow the traditional routes that most young people travel. Every year we have some thousands of people who do not go into this training line after comprehensive school. We are not proposing compulsory education at this stage, but we are calling on the government to take more creative measures to catch these falling young people. At the same time, the number of marginalised young men, aged 25-29, was 21,000 in 2016. Similarly, in 2008 they were "only" 12,000, i.e. this number of young marginalised men has almost doubled over eight years. At the same time, the budget for youth work has risen by 36%, with no reference to inflation. The Government’s Youth Policy Action Plan is inefficient for those at risk of exclusion or at least very thin. These measures have not answered the most important question of how we can stop the spiral of exclusion of young men in particular. The Government's measure is to improve service guidance, especially cooperation between public services, without actually starting anything new. The government’s medicine for preventing the exclusion of young people is in practice weak because the government has mainly raised the importance of the Ohjaamos, for example. Is this a plan that solves an extremely important issue for Finland's future, as so far the social exclusion of young people has only increased? According to a recent study, the main problem facing young people who are becoming marginalised is loneliness and a lack of a healthy support network. An important answer to loneliness and the prevention of exclusion lies in organizational work. The third sector is a more accessible operator than an authority. In addition, the third sector is much more flexible. The role of the organisation is precisely to patch up the missing support network, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u154	Mr President! The money added to the strengthening of equality in comprehensive school is a great thing. Equality funding to support primary schools in challenging areas will be increased by 15 million, and EUR 10 million will be added for schools that are at risk of being excluded from development activities for various reasons or have very limited resources. We note that there are certain parts of Finland on the map that are not at all involved in these separate additional funds, the development funds, so that they can now be included. In that Committee on Education, we heard a great many experts who told us about the regional and other differences in education. Of course, the Pisa results were one of the reasons. Although research shows that these differences between schools are very small internationally, the extremes of the schools seem to be moving away from each other in terms of skill levels. The research results show a particularly strong downward trend in mathematics, and when we know that there has been a great deal of effort in mathematics over the years, such as Luma centres in large centres, I have wondered whether these are accessible to all students. In other words, when the criterion of that positive discrimination money, equality money, is unemployment or other than Finnish or Swedish as a mother tongue or educational level, should this accessibility be added to it in some way so that distant schools can get money so that they can get to these motivational and enthusiastic centres so that their learning outcomes improve through it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u155	Mr President! Mr Niikko has already spoken very well about the educational views of the Finns, but I would like to make a few brief points. Much has been said about unemployment this evening, and probably the most important means of reducing unemployment is quality education, but unfortunately the problem of education is reflected in the deterioration of the Pisa results that has already been highlighted, and in particular in the fall in the results of mathematics and science. I would also like to see, as Mrs Parviainen has pointed out, that in future particular attention should be paid to their competence. They are very important subjects for our exports. Mr President! Especially in economically challenging times, the importance of lifelong learning is emphasised, and additional efforts should also be made, including in the field of free education. It is important for citizens to be able to complement their skills in the face of continuous changes in working life. Unfortunately, the government has decided to freeze the funding of liberal education, and we Finns consider this to be a rather poor development, because the educational institutions of liberal education provide a good learning path for people who do not participate in education for a degree. Mr President! Of course, good decisions have been made for next year, and I refer here to the voluntary language experiment that the Finns of Finland managed to get into the Government Programme in 2015. We did, of course, perform a language experiment on the subject of increasing its scope from 2,200 to 5,000 students. These proposals fell in the votes, but we are still pleased that this experiment will finally get off the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u156	Mr President! Already, many governments have been forced to act under long-term, chronic recession, which, regardless of political colour, has also forced significant fiscal adjustment measures. And every time public finances are adjusted, it is not right to avoid printing on the social and health side and then on the educational side, which, in practice, are the biggest items of expenditure in the budget. But now, thanks to a good and financially responsible government policy, we have again reached a growth path and slightly more favourable conditions on the public finances side as well, which is now also reflected in budgetary rains on the Ministry of Education and Culture. However, Finland’s growth and renewal will be built on a strong knowledge base, and new money for knowledge and education will be available from the budget debate for EUR 36 million. The decisions on appropriations already taken in the April spending limits debate will also be taken to the 2018 budget in full. The additional funding agreed in Riihe will be directed in particular towards promoting free early childhood education, promoting equality in comprehensive school, combating youth unemployment through vocational training measures, and strengthening research, networks and positive structural change in higher education institutions. These are explicitly the means to contribute to sustainable growth in the future, to raising the level of knowledge and education and to improving the employment rate. We should thank the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u157	Mr President! I would like to raise two points about this report by the Committee on Finance. We have a major reform in Pirkanmaa, i.e. directly from the report: ‘A significant structural reform is taking place at the University of Finland in 2019,as the present universities of Tampere and Tampere University of Applied Sciences become integrated. At the same time, the university becomes the main owner of Tampere University of Applied Sciences, when the university and the university of applied sciences form a new university community. “ “The committee considers it important that the project’s financing needs are assessed According to a report received by the committee, the Ministry of Education and Culture finances the project mainly through four years of strategic funding, which is 5.5 million per year, or 22 million in total. However, according to the Tampere Higher Education Foundation’s own estimate, the annual financing requirement would be EUR 11 million more, i.e. EUR 16,5 million per year; this would amount to a total of EUR 132 million for the years 2018 to 2025.” I very much agree with this view expressed by the section president, Mr Kiuru, that funding should also be considered and that resources would come into this significant reform in the future. Another important point here is the small amount that the committee will add EUR 400000 to the fight against the exclusion of young people. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Social Fund (ESF). I myself went through several secondary schools over the last year, and there is concern about the way in which the weaker third of the upper secondary school will be involved in this education. This will also help to ensure that fewer people are excluded, i.e. I believe that even with this small amount of money and also cooperation in education and training, we would all be able to get involved. We cannot afford any young people who are excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u158	Mr President! It is great that the situation will also look a little more positive for the Ministry of Education and Culture when we look at the proposal for next year's budget. Now that Finland has turned towards a better direction, we will be able to make minor improvements, such as targeted investments in basic education and the reduction of early childhood education fees. For example, the family of two parents and two children taking part in early childhood education, in which parents have roughly an average income, will spend between EUR 1000 and EUR 1200 more on something that will improve families' livelihoods and quality of life next year. In particular, raising the income limits for early childhood education will reduce customer fees for early childhood education, especially for small and middle-income families, and the biggest reductions in payments will affect families with multiple children. Payments will be reduced for all families who have paid a fee below the maximum fee and for almost all families whose income level is just below the maximum fee limit. In addition, thousands of low-income families are moving to free early childhood education, which is, of course, an excellent thing. This change will facilitate the financial situation of families with children and dismantle incentive traps. Indeed, according to expert feedback, the incentive trap effect of early childhood education payments is the highest among single-parent families with low income incomes and families with multiple children. According to the feedback received, the reduction in early childhood education contributions during this Government term will have a significant impact on the economy of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u159	Mr President! At this moment, I would like to continue what we missed in the debate yesterday afternoon between 12 and 14 p.m., when the Ministers for Culture and Education were here, but they are well-deservedly at rest at the moment. We then talked about the fact that the government's proposal contains the Government's promise that the Youth Guarantee will be taken towards the social guarantee. This means deepening cooperation between the public, private and third sectors in support of young people, i.e. in practice this is a promise that the third sector, the organisations that work with young people, will receive greater attention from the government. One of the objectives was also to collect best practices in municipalities and to extend them to operating models at national level. In this connection, the government also agreed on it during the two years when we Finns were in the government itself, including a pilot project which in 2016 was decided in Parliament to make a pilot project such as this in the light coaching model, to which the Parliament and the Finance Committee allocated EUR 2.35 million. Its funding was sought by three actors and they are only just starting to act because it took almost a year for the ministry to deal with it. It was surprising, however, that these operators suddenly received a 20% share in their application. This would not have been necessary, because the law does not require any 20%, but the law is based on the fact that there should be a share of ownership, but it can also be waived if there is a particular reason for it. From this, when the Finnish People's Party broke up, a drama about the members of the government began in the summer that it is still ashamed how it ended. Mr Terho, with the help of the representatives of the Centre and the Coalition Party and Mr Grahn-Laasonen, concluded that these 20% contributions were maintained, although several attempts were made to correct them there. In my opinion, there was no basis for this except the desire to make a policy at the expense of those young marginalised people, even beyond the will of this Parliament. Never before has the budget allocated by Parliament, which we share here from the allocation resources, been allocated a share of responsibility. In general, it has been possible to directly identify the actors to whom it is directed, but in this case it was not taken by the Committee on Finance. I am surprised that, at the beginning of the reign, if we agreed on some concrete measures to pursue this goal of the Government Programme, that we should apply for those new pilot projects, then why are we going after such small or large family disputes to pay its bill to these actors? That's what I can't understand. And this was an opportunity to correct this government proposal, but unfortunately they did not want the centre and the assembly to correct it. The Blues rejoice that these projects, as it were, now branded as projects by the Finns of Peru, are not being carried out. At the beginning of the term of government, for example, we agreed on a joint decision in the Committee on Finance with some Members of Parliament that, during this term of government, we want to support third-party operators who are out there distributing food to the poor even now during the Christmas celebrations. Last year, the Committee on Finance allocated EUR 1 million to food aid, and in the year before that, nearly EUR 800000. This measure, which has been agreed for the entire term of the government, has now ended up like a wall in December, and that is just a political reason. It was not wanted that this would seem that the Finns of Finland would help people with low incomes in food queues by allocating additional resources to some 400 food helpers. In reality, these resources are such that these organisations and operators buy fuel in their cars and pay the necessary costs. According to the information I have received in any organization, there are no employees. It is a real third-sector work, and this is what I hope, my friends, that you will continue to do in that government. Mr Pirttilahti, you mentioned that we cannot afford any young people who are excluded. These are beautiful words, and these beautiful words are published by every single Member of Parliament after each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u160	Mr President! The administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture is being dealt with, and one very important thing, of course, culture, for all of us people in many different forms has also been well taken into account here. I'm going to bring up a couple of little special cultural themes: I am delighted that the Karelian language resuscitation programme was launched this year. Now, too, next year's budget is given a significant amount of money to prevent the loss of this language, and this recovery programme is actually being launched in the course of next year so that more language and cultural products can be produced in such a way that the rare Karelian language remains with us among our people. It is a valuable heritage that we want to continue for the next generations. Similarly, the Section for Education and Science added further state aid to the organizations, and the Karelian Federation here also receives a significant increase. In this way, we can also see the work that the Karelian Federation is doing throughout Finland in 14 districts and in nearly 400 associations and associations throughout the Finnish peninsula, transferring it to future generations as well as future generations of the immigrant, immigrant, Karelian cultural heritage, and maintaining the awareness that also this year, Finland 100, has seen and heard in many celebrations and memoirs about the way the families of immigrants were settled here in the new region of Kanta-Finland after its evacue. That's how the Karelian Federation does the valuable work, and I'm happy to see that amount of relief.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u161	Mr President! Math is not my only concern. The second is the mother tongue, as literacy has weakened and reading has decreased among comprehensive school pupils. In order to maintain a high level of literacy among people living in Finland, information on reading must be made available to parents even before or immediately after the birth of the child. The staff of the clinics play a very important role in this, in providing new parents with information on the importance of reading and writing. It is worrying that only 25% of Finnish parents often read to their child, namely, the basis for reading and reading in early childhood, meaning that the importance of parents to that child’s literacy is crucial before the child itself learns to read. Studies show that reading to a child greatly improves the ability of a child to cope with life. Reading to a child is linked to better school performance and positive school performance. When we also know through Finnish studies that word skills correlate with mathematics, numeracy, it is very important that these two materials, the mother tongue and mathematics, are well-managed. The Parliament is increasing the amount of EUR 100000 to promote literacy, in cooperation with the Reading Centre and the maternity and child health clinics. I believe that this EUR 100,000 will become very important for the future, so that we really get the understanding that literacy is important and that reading to children is even more important at a time when children themselves are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u162	Mr President! It is also easy to add to the good speech by Mrs Parviainen about the importance of literacy that we have to take care of our libraries, because the library is the place that gives everyone the opportunity to read. We know that the more books there are at home, the better the prognosis is for the child’s future, but those books need not be dedicated, they can be borrowed from the library, and it must be possible for everyone. We know that, especially in small towns, libraries are actually the only place offering cultural services. All the more reason for us to make sure that our library network is good. Some arbitrage areas have already been created, and we must ensure that they are not expanded, but that they are covered. But then I want to say a few more words about colleges. We know that high competence is what Finland's success has always been based on, and this must continue to be the case. The basic tasks of higher education institutions are education and research, and we need to ensure adequate funding for higher education institutions, both in universities of applied sciences and in universities of applied sciences. Regrettably, there are signs that universities have changed slightly into such fund-raising institutions that are trying to get and get additional funding for themselves. The investment and working hours of teaching staff and research staff go to this, and this funding also guides what is being studied at universities and universities. This should not be the case. We should guarantee from the public sufficient basic funding to be able to provide both good basic research and applied research.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u163	Mr President! It is natural to continue where Mr Mikkonen decided to speak. It should be noted that when Finland is a very export-driven economy, when we are surrounded by the sea, in practice we are an island in commercial policy. In order to do well in trade internationally, it really requires that when we come from a distance, we should be able to do things better than our main competitors do, because we always come from a distance behind the sea. To succeed in this, when we cannot compete in quantity, we must be able to compete in quality. Of course, in order for us to succeed in qualitative competition, it requires a highly skilled population and well-trained, highly educated and knowledge-adaptable and capable people. However, I can see that the situation is fairly good and is going for the better. We're doing pretty good at international university rankings. Of course, we must also recognize the fact that we have crown jewels laid down in our own higher education field, in which investment and international competitiveness must also be adequately cared for as students. But as already shown in the budget, we have now come out of the way of cuts. The growing economy will also make it possible to invest more in education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u164	Mr President! Some time ago, in this Chamber, we were insisting on what period of government had been cut out of the museum just how much and who was responsible for it. Now I want to be happy about this museum site: Parliament has added 250,000 euros to the National Forest Culture Special Museum and Science Centre, the Forest Museum Lusto, Punkaharju, so that visitors can be told about our green gold. This is a good idea in that the centre, as the Prime Minister's Party, has consistently promoted the bioeconomy and this museum is illustrating forests, forest management and the importance of forests to Finland. This is the kind of little joy we have here in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u165	Presentation of Section 30 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The debate is about to begin. — Representative, President of the Chamber, Mr Wallin Harry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u166	Mr President! In its report, the committee deals, among other things, with the profitability of agriculture and notes that profitability is low. The average entrepreneurial income of agriculture is estimated to be only EUR 8700 per holding in 2017. The past growing season was very difficult since sowing. The harvest was not harvested by about 100,000 hectares. The costs of harvesting and drying also rose exceptionally high. The additional costs for farms amount to between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million. The committee welcomes the fact that the government allocated more than EUR 25 million in the third amending budget for 2017 to facilitate the situation of farmers. The aid is to be granted through the energy tax refund scheme. The committee is concerned that the instability of agricultural markets and the volatility of yields have clearly increased the risk of failure. The committee believes that the most important thing now is to draw attention to how the producer's share in the food chain can be permanently increased and improved. It is important, for example, to have the best solutions at farm level, to improve the negotiating position of primary production and the labelling of the origin of the product, and to promote exports of processed food to the highest possible level. It is also essential to examine whether production costs can be reduced through official regulations, such as the reduction of housing structures. The committee is particularly concerned about the continuation of the holding and the attractiveness of the sector. The need for new entrepreneurs is high, so young farmers must invest in agricultural training and economic skills and have faith in the future. The number of agricultural and horticultural enterprises has clearly decreased in the 21st century. At the same time, the size and production volumes of farms continuing production have increased, but this has not improved profitability either. If the decline in the number of farms accelerates by reducing food production based on domestic raw materials, security of supply will also be jeopardised. The committee is concerned about the survival of farmers and feels it is good that the payment of compensatory relief is proposed to be reduced by EUR 1 million. In addition, EUR 1 million will be spent on the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health’s Care Farmer project. The committee once again increases the appropriations allocated to 4H activities and advisory organisations and considers it necessary for the Government to take Parliament's will into account in its draft budget for 2019. With one exception, the committee has been increasing the funding for this item for more than ten years. The committee will increase the assistance of advisory organisations by EUR 1.8 million, of which EUR 48,000 will be allocated to the Finnish Horse Information Centre. The Committee on State Aid for 4H activities will increase by EUR 600000. The committee is also concerned about the resources provided by the Natural Resources Centre. It has a key responsibility to meet the expectations of the small economy. Particular attention will be paid to research into special mushrooms. The committee adds EUR 200000 to the article to research and promote the commercialisation of the patrician together with Pro Pakuri Finland ry. The Committee considers it important that the amount of damage caused by predators is sufficient for compensation within the limits set by the Commission. Preventive measures must also be taken as far as possible in order to reduce damage. The committee draws attention to the fact that around EUR 9 million of support for sustainable forestry will be lost in 2017. The committee considers it very necessary to remove the obstacles identified in the implementation of joint projects and to allow unused funding in 2017 to be used in 2018. The committee proposes that the statement be adopted. The committee "requires adding to Article 30.40.44 of the draft amending budget for 2018 an amount equivalent to the amount of aid allocated to 2017 to ensure the sustainability of wood production not used". In addition, the committee will increase the appropriations by EUR 50000 to the Finnish Union for Professional Fishery, SAKL, EUR 100000 to the North Karelia Fisheries Centre ry, EUR 100000 to Pro Luomu ry, EUR 150000 to the Arctic Aromit ry, EUR 200,000 to support real estate deliveries, EUR 300000 to the State aid to the natural resource economy, of which EUR 200,000 will be allocated to the Finnish Labour Force Association. The total increase made by the committee is EUR 4 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u167	Minister Leppä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u168	Mr. Speaker! Thank you to the Committee on Finance, to the section, to the section president for the presentation and good speech that we have just made, and in particular for the fact that the priorities that the committee has chosen in its text are extremely good and timely and are necessary in view of the future of this whole administrative sector and the bioeconomy and how we should deal with it. A very serious message is a matter of security of supply, and in the last few weeks, in the last few months, it has risen very strongly under discussion, precisely for those who are concerned and concerned about it, and that is something that we must all recognise and recognise at a very high level. President! I'll make a few withdrawals myself. I will start with the profitability of agriculture. I fully agree that the profitability situation is weak at the moment, and that weakness comes in particular from what the committee also stresses, namely that the market is currently not functioning as it should from the point of view that the requirements and costs imposed on farmers are not proportional to what farmers receive as a producer price. We need to find solutions to this together, not only for politicians, of course, but also for us political actors. That is why the government has put in place and we are preparing a food market law which is lacking in this instance and precisely in the way in which the trade practices are. This is a very important issue. Fortunately, with regard to the poor harvest situation and the difficult harvest autumn, we were able to slightly increase and ease the additional cost and additional loss that the President has just mentioned, amounting to EUR 25 million for agriculture. Of course, it does not compensate for almost all the losses it has incurred, but it is a significant part and a significant part. Similarly, the planned LFA cuts have been reduced, which I think is very important. It is one of the key elements of our support and support system as a whole, with regard to farmers and the targeting that agricultural subsidies require. And yet, knowing that about one third of all turnover comes from subsidies, the aid scheme is also very important, but of course it has a particular impact on the market and on the functioning of the market. President! It is good that the committee's report has also focused on the ability to cope and on how the relief system works, how we have The ‘carry on the farmer’ projects work and so on. It is, of course, the administrative sector of another ministry, but it is an essential part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's field of operation. President! More generally, the natural resource economy. Thank you to the Committee on Finance for the anticipation of the Kemera funds already and for the fact that a decision has already been taken to allow that budget to be transferred. If it is not used this year, as it seems to be, it can be postponed to next year. It is a very important sign that it is anticipated that there will be no cutbacks in forest improvement measures, as has been the case in this few years. This is very good, thank you very much. It is also extremely important to draw attention to the operating budget of the Natural Resources Centre, the supply of real estate. It will lay the foundations for the future and will also create faith in the future for young farmers, and also the withdrawal that the committee has made and the legitimate concern: how to get new young farmers ready to invest in the sector. It is therefore essential that we take care to capitalise on our Farm Development Fund Maker when the time comes. It is a truly important fund in that we are able to make future investments. I will conclude, President, that on the forestry side, the second issue, the additional money for Metso funding, is also important — now there is talk of a level of 5 million — and that the committee has drawn attention to the water resource economy, its potential. They are really large in Finland, both in terms of technology and otherwise. There is still much to be done, as we do for the entire bioeconomy. It plays a crucial role in the backbone of our economy and in our climate and environmental aspects
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u169	It is now possible to ask for 1 minute of replies and they will begin with Mr Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u170	Mr President! Thank you to the section president and the minister for their good work on the bioeconomy. In particular, I would like to thank Minister Leppää for the work he has done to allow us to use Finland's forests in a sustainable way, due to the LULUCF decisions, without any emissions charges. Your work in the EU, along with Minister Tiilikainen and the Prime Minister, was significant. There was also a quick response when farmers faced the ceiling. Of course, the sums of money alone cannot compensate farmers for their losses, but the quick response was great. This will also involve more long-term measures, and we would like to hear more about them: how, for example, will the EU state aid rules continue to react to the fact that we would have a permanent system of granting guarantee aid to farmers suffering under exceptional circumstances, or whether an insurance-based system will be able to move forward? But above all, about the job,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u171	Mr President! As Mr Kalmari has said here, the Minister could perhaps use a few words to clarify this LULUCF problem. Since there are still some conflicting interpretations and information in the public domain, it may be appropriate for one speaker to speak. At least I myself would also like to thank the Minister and all the other ministers and officials who have made a significant contribution to bringing this solution in the right direction. But maybe a few questions. When you referred to Makera, which is really important for capitalization, I would like to hear the Minister's view: How do you personally experience this limited liability of farms, which now seems to be a somewhat fashion phenomenon for fiscal reasons, when this transfer tax will then be abolished and perhaps even in family farms the repayments of loans through the limited liability company will find a different solution than it has been so far? How do you experience their future? Then there is the question of the increase in farm sizes for forestry farms and professional forestry enterprises: do you have any new medicine?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u172	Mr President! Amongst many important issues, the Minister raised one of the most interesting things personally, and that is security of supply. In Finland, which in practice has an island during the crisis, more than 90 per cent of the goods brought here and exported here are transported by sea, and if, for one reason or another, the maritime roads close, we are dependent on our own products, our products stored here. I would have asked the minister: How do these agricultural production conditions — even this summer, which was also a terrible summer for farmers, farmers — cut the basis for our security of supply, while talking about the competitive conditions for farmers, when the vast majority of income generation goes to the retail chain and the marketing chain and a small slice is left to the entrepreneur? If agriculture in Finland is made unprofitable or poorly profitable, what are the effects?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u173	Mr President! I will continue with what Mr Kari has just said, and I would have asked what Mr Kalmari has also said: security of supply, insurance or harvest compensation. I personally see this in the way that if we want to maintain security of supply after such years, then it is a national matter, it is no longer a matter for farmers. A farmer who experiences such a year as he is now certainly no longer has the option of taking out that insurance for the following year, i.e. now should return to the value debate whether it is a national issue, that there is security of supply in this country and not that it is subject to and accountable to a single farmer. And secondly, Minister Leppä: whether next year Parliament will no longer have to make up for what the Ministry leaves for Parliament to finance, for example 4H? The delegation will then be deprived of the power to make new openings which the committee has made this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u174	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Leppä, and thank you, too, to Harry Wallin, as President of the section. It should be noted that both the Committee on Agriculture and the Section for Agriculture in the Committee on Budgets have been very unanimous on the lines that have been adopted for next year's budget. When I looked at those amendments, they have, as a rule, come from non-members of the section and committee. However, many of them have since been corrected in the section's deliberations. Mr President! As we know, this year was very bad for farmers and income creation will be very bad. We now need to look to the future in terms of how we can compensate for future crop damage. That is why I would like to ask the Ministry: have you still considered this so-called financing model, which would cost farmers, for example, 10 million a year and would put 10 million a year into the fund? For example, in four years, about 80 million would be made, which would already be
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u175	Mr President! "Man can do what he does,but eating is the main industry",a chef who is well-known. I believe a professional. Chef added that it is a privilege to make food from domestic raw materials. I also believe this. The domestic food industry, and especially primary production, is aching at the extreme limits of profitability. The low price of products compared to the cost of production causes many farmers to reflect on the relevance of their activities. Many farmers stop their activities and apply for other jobs, and this also affects security of supply. The government has noted that good advice is needed now. In order to obtain good and even better advice, the Government has invested more than EUR 1.7 million in advice to improve farm profitability. This is an excellent thing for the government and a fair hand-out for the primary producers. Hopefully, this money will help to break off the debt spiral of more farms and restore farmers' confidence in their own business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u176	Mr President! In his opening speech, the Minister asked an essential and important question: how to get new farmers to Finland? I repeat: that is an absolutely essential question. Overall, agriculture has been in a very challenging situation at the moment and in recent years, and many farms are considering how to take the courage to move on to a generational change or whether to dare. Where is the courage to invest heavily in millions of dollars? I think, Minister, it is time for the eleventh Christmas season when I ask this same question to the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry who always sits down: What message do you want to send to young farmers who are considering the continuation of agriculture in the run-up to this Christmas? What is your encouraging message to all of them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u177	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is undoubtedly a ministry responsible for quite a large part of Finland's natural resources, and that is why I am asking about natural resource research and Luke's funding, which, according to the committee's report, has decreased by more than EUR 25 million over the last four years. Like the committee, I myself am concerned about this reduction in the budget, but Luke is responsible for the key research on our natural resources, both in agriculture, forests and fisheries. On this government budget proposal, Luke himself stated that the structure of research funding might consider a partial transfer of the Prime Minister's co-financing towards direct funding by ministries, as it would be possible to: Luke has received more funding in the past. Luke also says that there are indications,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u178	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. Before asking a few questions about this profitability debate: However, after a couple of years of persistent talk about it, it would be good to have a more enlightened approach to the subject itself. However, it is a situation where we have the same support system for all operators in the sector, the same cost of inputs for all, the same prices for all, and yet the sector still has some that make it profitable and others do nothing. In other words, if policy is to seek solutions for this, the approach must be somewhat more honest. Two questions relating to this food export: In the referral debate in the autumn, the Minister promised to provide further information on what is under preparation by the end of the year. The second question relates to this system of compensation for crop damage, on which all the committees and the section have taken the view that it needs to be developed. What are we going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u179	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the whole value chain of agriculture, which the Minister has also emphasised here. You will remember very well that during the last term of government, competition law was also reformed for the reason that we have a highly concentrated retail trade and trade, more than 80% of which dominates two chains. At the time, these chains were also placed in a dominant position and in those criteria. But in this whole value chain it is easy for farmers to have the weakest position at the beginning of the chain. Of course, it would be important for a few new criteria to emerge between industry and agriculture, between farmers and between trade. I do not know whether it would be through competition law or something else, I have often discussed this with the Minister. This would require stronger support for the producers themselves, and I wonder what measures the Minister has taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u180	Mr President! Very good speeches. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Section for maintaining a good atmosphere in the section and for the good cooperation and excellent presentation. Here, Mr Ihalainen raised an important question, which is linked to the fair market price, which the Minister has also spoken about a great deal and rightly. That is actually the most important and key question to get right first. If we are talking about security of supply, all actors must also take responsibility. With regard to the improvement of profitability, the section added precisely to those points where it was seen that profitability could be improved, i.e. advice, technological development, farm arrangements, processing activities. And there have also been efforts by this government to promote exports. In other words, even at the farm level, this entity can improve profitability, and the entrepreneurial income must remain in the future as well, so that those who continue will come. It is a great thing that there has been no Government-Opposition issues here, but a unified issue to ensure the Finnish food economy and security of supply in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u181	Värderade Herr Talman! Tack för presentationsanförandena. Vi har ett gemensamt bekymmer, och det är lantbrukets lönsamhet. Jag har tagsamhet noteat att ministern tagit tag i den orättvisa som råder — att lantbrukarna får en för liten andel av slutproduktens pris — och försöker åtgärda det.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u182	Mr President! It is certainly the case that agriculture and living rural areas are common to the whole government and Parliament. The Finns also presented a crop damage insurance model and better relief services for farmers. In fact, here is this arc, which was mentioned here, that starting — how to dare and be able to engage in agricultural activities — and how to cope with it is very much related to the fact that the relief system works and can rest itself, and it is also animal welfare that the owner and the breeder are doing well. I would have liked to have heard the Minister's ideas about this, how we could make this industry so that people feel that they can take a breath and get those vacation services. I would still like to see every Member of Parliament — and I have often said this — buying it from domestic countries, we can afford it. It's one big move. It doesn’t matter how much you support the action if you don’t make a choice there on the counter. So let's buy some domestics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u183	Mr President! Thank you to the President of the Section for a good presentation, and thank you to the Minister for the good work he has done. But now that we are making next year's budget, there are many times in this context the words'security of supply', 'the future of the future' and'religibility'. This is a very difficult connection, because all these things are connected. Unprofitable production is terribly difficult to get the young person to continue, and security of supply is a challenge when we have unprofitable activities, which means that we cannot produce food for security stocks either. How can this be resolved in its entirety? It is already known that this autumn the autumn grain could not be planted, there will be no bread self-sufficiency next year, as it is not this year, and that is how this cake is progressing all the time. However, when you think about the overall functioning of the food chain, we need to improve the distribution of income in such a way that we can also distribute this euro to the primary producer. What does the early years, Minister, look like in this regard? Is this the chain's number one thing next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u184	At this point in the debate, I would like to add the following points: Mustajärvi, Mikkonen, Wallin and Kalli. Then the Minister's reply, and then we'll take another debatable round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u185	Mr President! The state, in practice the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, directs Metsähallitus through ownership policy through the result negotiations process, but unfortunately Metsähallitus has also arranged and implemented layoffs for forest-economy loggers of Metsähallitus this winter, and yet there is still a great deal of unworked work to be done. Take, for example, the service equipment and structures of protected areas, which in many places are completely inexorable. If these protected areas are to be established, then there must be room for them to be maintained. And it would be good if the state could see even one organization that would take better care of its own ageing workforce so that the state and Metsähallitus could offer respectable hospice to older loggers to retire — and the emphasis is precisely on the word "honorable".
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u186	Mr President! The government is planning drastic increases in fellings, up to 15 million cubic metres per year, and it is therefore extremely important that, if we increase fellings, we ensure that it is done in a sustainable way, i.e. ensuring diversity and that carbon stocks are preserved and not reduced in the coming years. Metso money has been added here, but we must remember that there are drastic cuts in the back and even these increases do not reach the area targets we have had. Additional efforts are urgently needed to do this, especially since we know that Metso's protection programme is very widely approved and is also sought from the owners' point of view. Instead of bioenergy, more investments are needed in renewable energy. Biogas and its promotion are one of the points I would like the government to have paid more attention to, as we Greens did in our shadow budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u187	Thank you for your excellent contributions. It is a good thing that we all share the concern that there will be continuations in this area. Yesterday I was very pleased when I read yesterday's Helsingin Sanomat, which said: "There is enough faith in the future of my country. The average age of Finnish farmers is the fourth youngest in Europe. The young knee is more educated, resourceful and ready to take risks. Young farmers who believe in their future have three ways of coping: breeding, farming or additional work." I would also like to say to the Minister that this rural development and the survival of agricultural activities in the future are a whole and that, in that case, economic activity in rural areas must also be diversified and other alternatives offered to these farmers in addition to this cultivation. Currently, only 40% are full-time farmers and 60% already have some new livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u188	Mr President! Security of supply is best influenced by the future faith, predictability and all the actions that create faith and strengthen this spirit of the entire food cluster. What is particularly important is that subsidies that belong to farmers are paid in time, and it is very important that farmers improve productivity, and this is done only through investment. That is why the Agricultural Development Fund will continue to play a key role. All these measures affect how we build a platform for security of supply and the future of the entire food cluster.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u189	Minister Leppä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u190	President! Thank you for the excellent questions and, in particular, for the excellent lunches and comments. Let's start with LULUCF and the solution. The big picture that could actually simplify what has changed has now changed in such a way that the use of forests is now seen in the future rather than in the past. It will then do justice to how each Member State of the European Union will use its forests in a way that will always be sustainable in all situations. This is excellent for Finland. It is also doing justice between the Member States. That is why it is important that we always make sure that the harvests are smaller than the growths, that is, that our carbon stocks are constantly growing and that we are more and more advanced in processing products and that there are more long-term processed products, such as wood construction, other wood products. This is the essential element that has changed in this LULUCF, which is why I consider it a good thing. It is a big job that we in the European Union were able to understand how forests are managed in a responsible way in Finland, in a sustainable way. Disappearance — how is that 25 million, then what will happen in the future? The abolition of the premium tax is currently being examined together with the Ministry of Finance. That report has already come a long way. We'll hear about it when it's finished. Then, too, the sustainability of the state guarantee system is being prepared at the moment, which came up with this problem. This is the system we had, but it was temporary, and now it is being built in such a way that it will be permanent. This fund model, which is a new idea and a new idea, is also being carried forward and the study is being carried out so that we can secure it for such years, so that farmers can better prepare for the potential problems caused by this kind of year. The question of the incorporation of farms was very welcome. Clearly there has been an order for it, and several facilities are considering the incorporation of the company. Not only do we make generational changes with it, but it will also be easier to do phased generation changes. Forest gift reduction is one way to increase this size of forest farms and also to create generational changes there. Security of supply is indeed an important issue. It is a national issue for us since the fact that 340,000 Finnish workers work exclusively in the food supply chain. It's a huge amount. If we do not have our own primary production, if primary production is not profitable, then neither will we have workers who process this quantity. It's obvious. That's why we have to take care of it. What is more, the energy issue: the promotion of biogas — quite rightly, as has been mentioned here — is extremely important. Seed management is also under threat after such a year, as are feed handling and many other issues relating to security of supply, even then the issue of security of supply legislation. Well, what do I want to say to the farmers of the future? That is that this sector is definitely a future area. The world's population is growing, food is clearly needed more than it is now. In particular, there is a demand for safe, high-quality, traceable food. If so, Finland and Finnish food, the Finnish farmer will be able to answer this question. That is why there is a demand for this sector. The encouragement, the belief in the country, the belief that this is the case, we all want to continue to spread more. Congressman Koski here asked what other means were available. Yes, knowledge, to which the committee also paid particular attention, and to which it also increased appropriations. Good! The development of knowledge, the introduction of new technologies, new investments, new operating models, are key to competitiveness. It also requires farmers themselves, of course, to be awake as they are. I agree with Luke's funding. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u191	We will continue with the 1 minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u192	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good answer and good action. With regard to the Food Markets Act, expectations are very high. We need rules for that chain, because the current situation cannot continue, that the trade chain as the strongest link sets the framework conditions for other operators. Fair trade regulations must be found, and therefore much is expected from the Food Market Act and its potential. This research on natural resources has come up. I am very concerned about this because during the last parliamentary term, all the research money was transferred to the joint pot but the government's research strategy does not know the bioeconomy at all. This, Minister, needs to be corrected as quickly as possible. Nearly 20 million were transferred and 4 million have been recovered in less than three years. This isn't from anywhere. This system must indeed, as the Minister said, be re-examined. All in all, I agree with the ideas that have been put forward here that the whole chain will be fine if all the players in the chain manage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u193	Mr President! The previous government set national organic targets for Finland, which have been approved by this government in its programme, i.e. 20 per cent of the Finnish arable sector in organic production should be organic in 2020 and 20 per cent of the food provided in public food services. In 2012, the Organic Institute was established in Finland to solve the above-mentioned objectives and is located in Mikkeli. Some people are now surprised that this is the case. There is no guarantee of funding for the Organic Institute, although Minister Tiilikainen said at the beginning of the year that it is now in the budget. So what happened to the money from the Organic Institute? I noticed that the division has given Pro Luomu a total of EUR 100,000. Why does the state not support its own creation of the Organic Institute?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u194	Mr President! I'm sure someone's wondering what that Eero is missing, but for 50 years I've been watching my wife's home farm succeed or trouble. I once calculated that the purchasing power of wheat for the farmer has fallen to one third over 50 years. At the same time, of course, farm sizes have changed and production has improved, but it seems impossible that such bulk production could even squeeze the buyer to pay a better price, but it does come from special products that do not have the same competition as these basic foods. There'll be this security of supply. I understand that it is possible to store bread grain and basic livestock products for more than a year, but it can be extremely difficult to produce a continuous result with basic production. I think my wife's farm has more than 250 hectares of wheat at the moment and still.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u195	Mr President! Unfortunately, entrepreneurial income from agriculture has been falling trendily for over a decade. At the beginning of the 21st century, entrepreneurial income remained more than EUR 1 billion, now only about 300 million. The indebtedness of agriculture has turned to a marked rise. The ratio of liabilities to net sales, i.e. relative indebtedness, has increased from 76 per cent in 2012 to 96 per cent in 2016. Adding to this the fact that agricultural subsidies are under significant downward pressure, it is clear that producer prices must be able to be strengthened in order to make production profitable and to ensure its continuity and security of supply. However, in recent years the share of primary production in consumer prices has fallen rather than improved. The Minister has done an excellent job, things have progressed, but since the situation is still very critical, I would like to ask what the government can and will do to ensure that the producer's share of the food price is reversed in order to strengthen the producer's position in the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u196	Mr President! There have been good speeches and important things here. But I'm going to expand it a little bit. Last season I have already raised the issue of spring hunting, and first of all I would like to thank you for the fact that these things have moved forward. But, of course, the follow-up question: is it possible to develop the sector further, for example, in various protected areas, hunting with bows, which would increase tourism and also look forward to the game selection? Then there are other forms of hunting: how can we increase the attractiveness of hunting? In other words, you need to get more enthusiasm for young people. What are the ways to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u197	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for his hard work in improving the profitability of agriculture. I'd like to ask you more about that estate and real estate structure. As we know, the fragmented structure of buildings has a significant impact on the profitability of agriculture, which increases the size of parcels and parcels and, at the same time, shortens journeys to different parcels. Since 2012, the area covered by the annual holding arrangement has decreased from 10000 hectares to 6000 hectares due to a reduction in appropriations. Following the committee's deliberations, the budget has now proposed EUR 4.2 million for these land arrangements. In practice, they are implementing projects already under way — new ones cannot be started. I would like to ask the Minister: has this need for a system of land been reduced in relation to the reduction in appropriations, and is it sufficient to secure adequate arrangements for land in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u198	Mr President! It is good to continue this debate on profitability and, as has been said in many speeches, measures are certainly needed throughout this chain. There must be measures that producers themselves can take and invest in new production, develop new practices and introduce new technologies and also think about new products. The Minister also pointed out that in the future there will be a pressing shortage of different new products in this food chain, and that is something we would certainly have a lot to offer in Finland. Then the second key question relates to how, in this whole food chain, its food income will be distributed more fairly so that the producer will also receive more of it than is currently the case. As we have listened to these speeches here, there must be a great deal of common will in order to make things better, so that we do not always have that margin in the store.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u199	Mr President! Profitability and the survival of farmers go hand in hand. When production is profitable, then you will be able, and when you are able, you will also be better able to do the work and there will be fewer sorrows. It is clear that much of the profitability of farmers' work must be made to work through the market and domestic demand so that we all buy more Finnish products and that the Finnish farmer's share of the price formation of the product is correct. But, Minister, I would like to ask about the promotion of exports in Finland when the world's cleanest, antibiotic-free food is produced for which there is a demand in the world. There's a demand for it, if that's what you want. Now that Tekes and Finpro merge into Business Finland and we want to promote food exports, we want to promote how the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry pays particular attention to food exports and their promotion,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u200	Mr President! Minister Leppä in his speech just now, as well as Mr Savola in his own, drew attention to the fact that Finnish food is appreciated in the world. I believe that the government has paved the way by negotiating export agreements, inter alia: In the Far East or by creating opportunities to export Finnish pig meat production, for example, on a large scale. This is a very good thing, but I am sure that only the Ministry has, at the moment, been able to concentrate on how well this export has been successful. Is the head open, so to speak, and does the goods move there, and how is the trade doing? We would like to hear more about this. Another question regarding the shooting test related to the hunting test: would it be possible to consider the possibility that this shooting test, such as a deer test or a bear test, could be carried out at an indoor shooting range for what is known as video paint? These indoor ammunition tracks have started to appear in Finland, and the shooting conditions are good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u201	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that we have one cornerstone of the strengthening of our state finances that has begun to happen in our forests. It is amazing when you hear speeches in this Chamber that we have Finnish forests threatened by some terrible accident. On the contrary, we have a bright future in this area. There's a lot of work to do. There's a problem. We have a shortage of Kemera money, we have problems managing the trout, but it is only a challenge for us to put these forests in order and create a new standard of living in this country. We have been given such a treasure to care for, which we must manage properly, because with this capital we both manage the climate and keep a good carbon supply within the borders of this country. This is a great opportunity. Secondly, the Minister's wish that the marketing of domestic food in this country should be made even better, because security of supply is the only thing, it is the cheapest life insurance the country called Finland holds for itself in this world. When you have your own lunches, you never get hungry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u202	Mr President! The EU's planned performance bonus system for the implementation of environmental and climate objectives has been quite positive and even shows opportunities for Finnish agriculture and farmers. It is, of course, a good thing that the aid policy is constantly changing in a more cost-effective way, so that effective action is paid for, while at the same time increasing the decision-making powers of the local Member States. Traditionally, Finnish farmers have already managed environmental obligations in a very sustainable way, for example in relation to fertilisers and plant protection. How, Minister, would you comment on this new proposal from the EU, and how will it be ensured that our good starting point is taken into account in such a way that farmers will then actually benefit from the potential contributions that will be made to the environment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u203	Mr. Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Leppä for his versatile work on the success of Finnish food production both in Finland and abroad and thank the Committee on Finance for the contribution of the relevant section, in particular the Finnish Horse Information Centre. Work for a Finnish horse in Kiuruvesi continues. A few words about this Farmer project. Mela wisely makes a variety of projects under the Caretaker project aimed at supporting Finnish food producers in emotional distress, depression, exhaustion under financial concerns. One thing I would like to raise here — I do not know whether the Minister has anything to answer to this, but I would like to point out in this debate — is the prevention of suicide by means of a national crisis telephone. There are different kinds of crisis telephones, but not those with peer support specifically for farmers. What can we do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u204	Mr President! I am sure the Minister will know that, as a representative, I would like to ask about the same issue which we have often exchanged a few words about in this Chamber, namely animal welfare and its current situation. Firstly, I would like to see a decision finally to reinstate the post of Commissioner for Animal Protection. That would be very important. We Social Democrats, during the previous term of government, drove this post at that time, and I think it would be very justified for this government to return it at last. President! Another thing that is very important is the Animal Welfare Act and the fact that it will be good, progressive and ethically high. It is also a guarantee that Finnish food, for example, enjoys a high level of appreciation elsewhere. It may be a competitive advantage for our productive animals to be treated properly and well. After all, there are still many points in this draft that require a degree of improvement, such as this issue of access to drinking water and many others,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u205	President! EU: First of all, thank you to Minister Lehkä, you did the work of a Finnish horse in that LULUCF matter together with other ministers. Second point: We are now talking about national mobility for EU agricultural policy. We now have this energy tax refund as notification. I don't think it should be sent there at all. Now it's been sent, but it's got to be a quick answer. Such things should not be delayed in EU bureaucracy. Well, the third thing is that there are brexes. Finland must not go into the EU's percentage movement now, otherwise we will not be able to deal with these needs of our own food economy, which are absolutely necessary. And the fourth thing is that climate change is already visible in the windows of the cabin. The EU's food strategy in the coming financial period must also be prepared for climate change in a whole new way
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u206	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his active action — one might say that this is a proactive action. It's been good to look at the Minister's work here, especially at LULUCF. And at the moment, I think our Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, is negotiating on RED II, and it is also hoped that we will be successful in getting that right. Thank you for sharing this 4H funding, which added to this. I hope that it will also be included in the budget next year so that we do not have to discuss it. That is the proportion of young people in this crop: Very many boys, or women, are forced to accept the entire farm's crops, and the farm's balance sheet values are quite high. In fact, we have a big problem with these lower guarantee values for rural areas, in which way we finance different types of property. Should we continue to develop this state funding, the guarantee system, which could facilitate the share of rural areas? As far as predators are concerned, I would like to thank the Minister for taking an active stance: there have been enough hunting permits for predators, at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u207	Mr President! I would also like to thank Minister Leppää for his expert work in favour of farmers, which I am sure will help with his own professional background. I would like to draw attention to the rural road network. A lower - grade road network needs to be put in place because milk trucks, forest cars, are moving there. With regard to the construction of forest roads, I would like to ask the question: why are they not being built? As far as I know, there is a reasonable amount of money available there, however, but it is not enough on the construction side. As a single matter, this support for the 4H organisation is important, because it is an organisation that is spread around Finland by its activities, and it gives young people good training, as the letter H shows for its part. And this investigation of a vigilante would require
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u208	Mr President! At the moment, we have many investment projects in the forest industry across the country, and these have been long awaited in order to make our forests better used. Forests really are growing more and more rapidly and will continue to be used less than they are growing every year. But in order to achieve this investment in industry, it is necessary to support society in such a way that it is possible to mobilise companies that are making completely new sectors and products. They often involve a very high degree of processing and highly technology-intensive products. I would have asked the Minister: how have you and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, for example, moved these issues forward? Then I would have asked about these training places too: what is the cooperation with the Ministry of Education that there will be a significant increase in the number of training places in this area? That's what I'm talking
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u209	Mr President! Prosperous agriculture and a viable farmer are the basis for security of supply, on which there has been a great deal of talk about security of supply here. It is a matter for the whole nation, a matter for the whole nation, a national matter, that we have food, energy and water of our own, to guarantee in all situations what can happen to the nation, and in that respect the Achilles' heel are inputs. From the point of view of agricultural machinery and fuels, we are far from self-sufficient. The farmer needs faith in the future. There are the news to which Mr Wallin referred, the positive news, fortunately it is also reported to the public, but there are also other, more negative news. However, even a small act to improve profitability means much for the future, and the fact that domestic and local food make their trade is extremely important for this future faith. I have a question about this security of supply, Mr Minister: are you looking at it from this broader point of view, including from the point of view of input?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u210	Mr President! Fishing is one important industry, and we have sworn in the name of domestic fish. I would have asked Minister Leppä: how could the debate with the Ministry of the Environment be developed so that we could genuinely start looking at the seal stock management plan? In the 2003 calculations, we have estimated that there are 43,000 and 26,000 nesting couples of cormorants fishing more than fishermen can fish, and this is a major problem for coastal fishing in particular. What is sad about this is that this puts coastal fishing against the tourist fishing industry in the northern riverbanks. Now this confidence-eating seal should be able to be removed so that its stock is natural in marine areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u211	Mr President! I have been very impressed by the multi-professionalism and diversity of farming. I myself have farm entrepreneurs, meat entrepreneurs, who use my wife to make it into their own slice of the Christmas table from a very large package. With a small slice, food is first made for others, and then an effort is made to take bread for yourself and the family. What Mrs Kääriäinen referred to and what I referred to in my first speech was this security of supply theme, and in the role of Vice-President of the Defence Committee when she looks at this society in the Defence Committee, often as if through the aim and through these threats and also through threats other than military threats, it was gratifying to hear that the Minister sees this issue of security of supply as important and essential. I would like to ask: how do you see it as a minister whether there is a need to have a slightly wider debate in Parliament on this security of supply? I referred to the diversity of agriculture, and this security of supply angle is also wide and many policy areas permeate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u212	Mr President! Of course, from the point of view of security of supply and the profitability of domestic food production, the demand for domestic food here in Finland is significant, and I would like to ask: now that we have a fairly recent procurement law, have you seen in the Ministry that it would have affected the direction of domestic consumption of local food as it was sought, at least in public kitchens, that there would be mainly Finnish, domestic clean local food, and is this reflected in the ministry's activities in any way that this would be speeded up? But climate change is really reflected in the window of the cabin and, of course, it is a positive thing that the EU climate regulation-LULUCF decision was quite a valid one when added to it this sink reporting, which means that the European Commission must ensure that the EU achieves these 2030 targets of 40% emission reductions. So if sinks are to be significantly reduced, this must then be compensated in other sectors. Final position
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u213	Mr President! Citizens are becoming more and more acute in their feedback on the damage caused by fraud. The citizens have wondered about the amount of damage and, above all, about the grounds for compensation. On the basis of the feedback I have received, the purchase price for dairy cows has been about EUR 1500, but if the beast is scratching it, compensation may be about EUR 750 or half of the fair value of the animal. One sheep farmer reported that the wolves had torn the sheep from him and some died in the field and some had to be put out of existence. The animals had to be transported to Honkajoki for destruction, and the transport costs then fell on the hands of this farmer. And this farm entrepreneur asked the Minister whether it was considered in the Ministry that this compensation practice could be updated so that the injured party would receive full compensation for the damage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u214	Mr President! These frauds: A few years ago, when people were really worried about them, the situation was that the damage amounted to between 5 and 6 million. Now they are approaching 10 million, and when that 10 million was agreed with the EU, no one even believed that such a line would be fulfilled. So now I ask the question: what are we going to do about the reindeer sector, where most of these damage occurs, actually reducing it? However, no matter what measures appear to have been taken, we have not managed to reduce the fraud damage in the reindeer herding area. In particular, I am concerned about waste imaging at the eastern border. There have been more and more places to shoot, and the damage there has been very much increased. Now on the subject of gluttony: I really hope that we can continue to remove the wolverines that cause damage, because it has produced good results and has not, according to my knowledge, destroyed any of the gluttons that would have been
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u215	Mr President! Mr Viitanen raised an important issue which I myself would have asked: when is the Animal Welfare Act coming? We've been waiting a long time for that. But there has been talk of horses here, and we all know that the Finnish horse was especially important in wars and reconstruction. Veterans have also told us about these things. The Finns of Peru have this idea that the Finnish horse would be a celebration of the independence of our country. It would cost nothing, and it would be a very fine gesture and also an enthusiasm for these breeders. As the owner of the Finnish horse itself, it is very important for me to retain its species. It's very peculiar. I recommend everyone to listen to the Huojuva barn song of the Finnish horse. I think this is a very lovely thing to say: "And when the tanks crashed on the stump, it was freezing, get — you were even more reliable than the machine." "Sullaukni Raiva fields." What do you think, Minister, if a Finnish horse could be a celebration animal of Finnish independence?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u216	Mr President! Yeah, the horse's gonna be a party animal, but when we have this wolf problem. Representative Hongisto also referred to this, and indeed it is that in Ostrobothnia, South Ostrobothnia, Central Ostrobothnia and North Ostrobothnia these wolf problems are commonplace. In the coastal region of Northern Ostrobothnia, for example, up to a hundred yard visits have been recorded since autumn, and this information can be found in the Tussu system of the Natural Resources Centre. It is estimated from the game centre that such a plentiful visit is quite rare. It is no longer rare for us, Minister, but, as I said, it is commonplace. The wolf problem is completely uncontrollable, and the wolves are even in people's yard and are completely fearless. And when you try to get a permit to dump them, they'll be right back. I would ask the Minister: what are you going to do to ease the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u217	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag instammer i ledamot Östmans fråga, och jag upprepar den inte.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u218	Mr President! I also believe that primary production, agriculture and forestry, will be the area of the future if and when we are able to develop value chains and value added, let alone internationalise it. I would ask you, Minister — we have discussed this quite a lot recently: what concrete measures do you have to take to achieve these objectives? My second question concerns the Fisheries Act and the increase in the management fee. I am particularly concerned about the loss of interest in fishing for children and young people, in recreational fishing. Unfortunately, nature and fishing are more distant issues for many urban children and, therefore, increasing the fishing management fee is not necessarily the right way to attach families and children to fishing. Minister, why did you go down this road to increasing the fees for fisheries management?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u219	Mr President! In the food report, the whole Parliament gave a common back to the fact that if legislative changes are needed in order to make the food chain fairer, this institution should be supported. Today, solutions are also being sought in the EU to improve the position of the primary producer and there has been talk of the possibility for producers to organise themselves and to agree on prices. I'm encouraging the Minister now. I think it's time to do something about this. As long as Mr Korhonen has asked about generational exchanges, I have asked about origin marking in this Chamber. I am pleased that this has also moved forward. It is wonderful that you no longer need a magnifying glass in the store when you study the domesticity of meat packages. The same is true of milk, and now the same thing moves to restaurants. There the origin of meat and fish will be announced in the future. However, Minister, I still have the enthusiasm to make progress on this point: are the processed products at some point involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u220	Mr President! A few small questions for the minister. Is there any prospect of any reforms to the forest property of the death nests? Is it perhaps possible to move in the direction of qualified majority voting and even updating the question of who usually owns them and where in the world? This year's question, which Mr Kalmari here also did, is local slaughter and meat processing, for today people want products that have a clear story that the meat is grown without the use of antibiotics and processed completely close by. In Central Europe, it is a common practice for slaughter to be slaughtered near, even without transport, and the products have a clear traceability and safety element, because no antibiotics have been used to grow meat. Is it possible that at some point in Finland we can get past bureaucracy and offer work to those places that try to process food in a slightly different way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u221	Mr President! The fight against animal diseases will be reasonably cost-effective for so long until the animal disease reaches here with our farm animals. Let me ask you a question about the situation of African swine fever. I myself know that in that southeast corner, Finland is now being trapped in an experiment early in the year, and I hope that success would be all right and bring continuity to other pig-rich areas as well. It is therefore a very big risk for our domestic pigmeat production, for the export of pork, for all of it. So we have to hold on to it with our claws, that the disease will by no means enter our wild boars or production pigs. But another point in my speech is the reform of the Animal Protection Act. It's really important that it's coming now. Hopefully we will soon be able to discuss it and deal with it. It's really something to fix. It's an old law. But I am still asking Mr Viitanen: you are always calling for that animal welfare agent. When he was appointed, what added value did he bring to this entire animal management chain?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u222	Mr President! We have had this debate quite often, most recently at a seminar where all parties went to tell animal welfare organisations that they are committed to good animal welfare objectives. But in practice it is very unfortunate if the attitude is such that it is believed that the animal welfare commissioner would be of no use. We have seen, however, that it is very important that we have a person who is able to provide his own expertise, input, know-how to promote animal welfare. On all sides, I believe that this is a modern activity, that there can be different delegates, and that is why I think it is very justified that there should continue to be. You know that this is a very small budget, and I would like to see that small amount found, so that from this point of view we can also make Finland the leading country in the field of advanced animal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u223	Mr President! I would like to draw the same attention to what Mrs Myllykoski has here, namely the situation of the cormorants. You, Minister Leppä, received 4600 signatures from the coast of Ostrobothnia at the beginning of December, calling for the destruction or driving out of the area of a large cormorants stock. Minister Tiilikainen was also involved in this. There are great disadvantages for both fishermen and the rural economy, and also for leisure dwellers on the seashore. Like Mr Östman and Mr Hongisto, I share this concern about wolves. We in the constituency of Vaasa have an estimated 50 wolves, which, compared to Luke's estimate of 150-180 wolves, would be a third, and I can't believe that there would be a third of Finland's wolf population in the constituency of Vaasa. They've been seen every week, and they're very close.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u224	Mr President! It is particularly important to make plans in the ministries and between ministries for the cormorants, but also for the seals. But I would also like an answer from the Minister when, in this debate, for example, Mr Blomqvist said and many have sworn that agriculture is a sector of the future and is believed in. However, I ask Minister Lepä: how can we guarantee security of supply if our land, forests and water resources are globally available to everyone? I ask this strongly already because we have made plans for the bioeconomy, but the foreign owner does not necessarily commit to these guidelines of the Finnish Government and the views of society as a whole. In some way, in the interests of security of supply, should we be able to prepare national legislation which will enable us to secure this property for our own use?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u225	Mr President! Thank you very much, Mr Leppää, for having appointed a rapporteur for the development of the horse sector. The sector is very important and employs thousands of Finns and creates jobs and well-being and vitality for the countryside. However, there many entrepreneurs, the horse entrepreneurs themselves, are currently in a difficult situation with profitability and are doing a very long day, and it is important that, in the EU too, we also have an influence to get EU project funds here in Finland, which will also help us to develop the horse economy and, in particular, nature tourism, which the OECD has also recommended for us. And I warmly support the proposal made by Mrs Mere that the Finnish horse be appointed as the centenary of Finland’s centenary of the centenary of the centenary of the centenary of the 100th anniversary — it is a potter of clay fields and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u226	Mr President! I would like to comment on a detail in that budget, and that is the support for water and fisheries projects, from which the government abolished a total of EUR 1 million of funding in the 2017 budget last year. Even this year, there has been no change for the better, so a total reduction of EUR 2 million can be calculated. I consider this to be a bit of a trick, but neither budget book has seen any change in funding in either year, but the government has replaced the one million cuts by the fact that the Bioeconomy and Clean Solutions tip project has been subject to the same amount of top-up funding, but I do not think that these key project funding is intended to compensate for the weakened basic funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u227	And the reply, Mr Viljanen, followed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u228	Mr President! First of all, congratulations to the ministers and all those who have contributed to the recent LULUCF decision. It is great that the understanding of sustainable forest management in Finland has also grown so much at EU level that a sensible and sustainable LULUCF decision was possible for Finland. Congratulations on that. But now that increased use of forests has been made politically possible, attention should be drawn to the fact that this increase will also be implemented in practice in a sustainable way. In order to be able to achieve our ambitious forest use targets in a sustainable way, it is clear that the management and burden of forest management, especially for seedlings and young people, must be dealt with. In the short term, in order to enable these economically unprofitable care jobs, we have a Kemera incentive system, which has now also been well capitalised — there is no shortage of money there. But the Kemera system is so complex and bureaucratic that the fear is that there will be no incentive money and even no work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u229	Minister Leppä, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u230	President! Thank you very much. This eight minutes will go by for these answers. Once again, thank you for the good questions and lunches. Quick, quick, quick, quick, Exports. Export efforts have been significantly increased. A new budget of EUR 3.5 million will be added to the budget and will provide additional resources for both Evira's work and sales in the world. All in all, the Food from Finland programme, the future Business Finland programme, is a joint project between different ministries, different actors, where coordination is clear, and this wants and has also produced results, new regional claims have been made, Finnish food has gone to trade in the world, when it is reported more actively and export promotion is being done. Of course, companies play a central role in this, but this is a completely different approach from the one ever before, and it will certainly also be reflected in the price received by producers. It has not yet been seen, but it will be visible there, and I believe it will be, so there will be additional efforts. In addition to this, the Ministry is funding the university of applied sciences export training programme, which is now starting, and I think it is extremely important that we also have future experts there in the education pipeline. President! It's a market thing. Many representatives continued to speak on the improved functioning of the market. It was a very good change in competition law last season. It helped to resolve this issue, but not in its entirety. That is why it is important that we now go through what the contractual relationship and practices between industry and trade between industry and farmers are. We have a lot of regulations and regulations in this country: antibiotic exemptions, bans on the use of hormones, salmonella exemptions — we have not yet received enough benefit from them all. That work is still ongoing, and it is being done all the time and all the time. This must also be reflected in the price received by farmers. You cannot produce at the same price a product with antibiotics in it has already been used in feeding, you use growth hormones, you use the production in which you do not do this. That is a completely different matter, and it must also be reflected in pricing, and that is what we are driving here. In the same way, the unfair trade practices which, admittedly, are not over and over, must be eradicated, and that is why the food market law is needed. The origin marking has been tightened. When it is always said in shops and restaurants that the consumer chooses, of course the consumer chooses, it is obvious, but where the consumer chooses if he does not know what he chooses? That is why origin labels must be comprehensive, they must be good, they must be correct, and now they also come to restaurants. I agree with Mr Kalmar: the next step is processing. I have already put this down in that letter of order, which says that the next step will then be taken in the direction of processed products. All in all, it is a question of where our food, food processing jobs are, whether they are here in Finland or outside Finland's borders. To this end, everything is aimed at ensuring that as many Finns as possible are also employed in the food industry, more than 340,000 of what we currently have, that is what we are aiming for. It's a forest government thing. It is clear that the matter of loggers' lay-off is a very bad thing, and I hope that there will be a solution within Metsähallitus that will provide a more sensible solution to this, so that these lay-offs can be avoided and even-handed. You'll back me up on time. They have now been able to be implemented and done, even a little early, and that is extremely important also in terms of trust. The organic objectives are clear, and the funding of the Organic Institute must also be secured. It's obvious. Hunting, Speaker, a few words. It is true that many things on the hunting side are between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment, the cormorants one good example of that. This is the dialogue we are holding all the time. Accidents continue to occur, both in the case of major fraud and in the case of seal damage. The seal population has grown very strongly, and next year seal management plans will be updated, i.e. a new seal management plan. There are hunting quotas and quotas there, and it is a difficult species to hunt, and that is why new ways must be found. In the case of fraud payments and in the case of large predators, we have 53 wolf-based depreciation quotas, and the withdrawal permits are granted as far as applications are made for these particular individuals who cause damage and danger, and that is the way in which we have them. This is a difficult issue for us in the sense that there is also a clear and unambiguous Commission right of initiative with regard to the wolf. We are always discussing wolf policy with the Commission in all its aspects. President! - It's all right. It is very good that the committee also drew attention to this. It is not only a climate action, it is an environmental act, it is also a very important thing from the point of view of competitiveness that we have as sensible a farm as possible. There is not enough money for these arrangements at the moment; it has to be admitted, that is how it is. With regard to CAP reform, with regard to the reform of the common agricultural policy, there will be more national room for manoeuvre, and "the results will be paid for" has now been one aspect there and "the responsibility will be paid for". It is a question of what those criteria are. Finnish agriculture, Finnish food production is very responsible from the point of view of animal welfare, the environmental point of view, social dimensions and so on, so that we also play a strong role there. It's obvious. I think it was a start, and that communication to the Commission is a promise. Of course, the details are still completely open, but what is important is that there should be adequate funding there, otherwise it will not be possible anywhere in Europe. It is therefore essential that it is taken care of. The Finnish horse has drawn us to success, Finland, it has drawn us to independence. It deserves all the respect it can be given. There is a great deal of potential in the horse, and there is no obstacle on my side that further respect is shown in this way. It's quick enough to find out where the forest is. It's going with the Justice Department right now. That's what they do. One more word about security of supply, and that is land and water. It is very important who owns our production factors. It is extremely important to ensure that they remain in our own hands. This is a matter for us. Then, with regard to the refurbishment of migratory fish and water bodies: they have been used and used more in this parliamentary term than before. There are a very large number of projects, already carried out and under way, and there is a significant amount of key project money and other funding to do this. So we've had a lot of these projects. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u231	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u232	The general debate on Section 30 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u233	Mr President! The crisis in the agricultural sector has been widely identified here during the debate on the budget and throughout the autumn. We must continue to be somewhat surprised at the agreement that has, in fact, prevailed throughout the whole parliamentary term in this Chamber every time agriculture has been dealt with. However, a slightly regrettable phenomenon has come over the last few weeks, when representatives of a few parties have clearly supported agriculture in this Chamber in the crisis, but at the same time the various organisations or members of the same party have made strong accusations and demands for further cuts in this agricultural sector. Well, they're part of the politics game. In next year's state budget, perhaps the biggest single issue in agriculture is the avoidance of planned cuts of EUR 33 million in a situation where profitability is plowing and deep plowing. We managed to reduce the cuts, but not completely eliminate them, which is, of course, regrettable. The State allocated both the previously agreed transfer of EUR 11 million and the EUR 10 million for the agricultural real estate tax relief to reduce the cut-off of the planned compensatory allowance. This was the right decision in a difficult situation where the worst could be eliminated. As a result, the LFA aid will be reduced by only EUR 5 per hectare next year. Mr President! This budget for the coming year has also shown very important support for the survival and well-being of farmers. The EUR million allocated to the ‘carry on’ project has helped farmers cope with different life situations, such as illness, fatigue, relationships or loneliness. Overall, the project has been positively received and the amount of money invested has had a greater impact. In addition, the existing ely projects with this same purpose in different regions have already been implemented for a few years. Mr President! In addition to these, I am also very pleased with the reform of the transfer tax, the EUR 1 million reduction in the substitute payment and the EUR 3.5 million money for export spending. Of course, it is not exactly clear how it will be targeted, but it will also be the subject of ministerial proposals in the early part of the year. The growing pressure on the cuts continues to highlight the fact that our food exports need to move in an increasingly positive direction. In this regard, Minister Leppä has worked hard, and thank you very much for that. The relief of the allowance is directly linked to the need to support farmers' survival. The reform of the transfer tax, on the other hand, will make it easier for many farms to change their forms of enterprise, for example in the context of a gradual generation shift towards a younger successor. With a view to the future, the government needs to find more effective solutions to improve the basic sustainability of agriculture and tackle the challenges that will arise in the coming years. One important issue for domestic pigmeat production is also the resolution and avoidance of African swine fever in Finland. For the coming year, I have also proposed that the limits be specified in order to prevent the spread of the disease. It is quite clear that the implementation of so-called street trash, the flagrant signs referring to them and the threat of a fine would make people throw away illegal food more effectively at the border. There's a growing need for this. The eastern border exceeds about 3.5 million people per year by road, and the corresponding figure for Estonian maritime transport is nearly 9 million passengers. Such volumes represent a significant risk to the future of the entire domestic pigmeat production and, in particular, to all its export aspirations. That is why I hope that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will also allocate appropriate funding from the budget as soon as possible. Finally, I would also like to express my enormous thanks to the competent minister of the section, Mr Leppa, who, in the face of the difficult situation throughout the autumn, has genuinely identified the needs of the farming population and is doing his best on the basis of them day by day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u234	Mr President! I thought I'd bring up a few things from this section. Firstly, we must thank the committee for adding EUR 100,000 to the budget for North Karelia fishing... To the fisheries sector — and I guess I can no longer read my own handwriting — because this money is needed, and it is directed specifically at fisheries control. The problem we have there is the poaching of lake salmon, and these additional resources are really necessary, because if we are to steal it at the same time as we are trying to revive this really endangered stock, then we know that this is a hopeless task, and that is why I thank the committee for this money. All in all, of course, we would have liked to see more investment in these water and fisheries projects and in supporting them, because first of all we know that our hiking fish are in a very endangered situation. On the other hand, we have prepared a good fisheries road strategy and we need resources to implement it. The government has taken these fisheries as one of its top projects, but in practice money has not been added to them, but when they were designated as the top project, then, on the other hand, they were taken out of the budget and simply repacked. But we all know what the potential for tourism lies in these migratory fish and related tourism and recreational fishing, and it is also for this reason that it would be important to invest in this, because it would bring jobs and vitality to those regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u235	Mr President! The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry' opinion on the budget rightly states that farms are a vital part of Finland's food security and security of supply. In addition to economic opportunities, therefore, agriculture is also a question of our security of supply. Climate change, economic crises and armed conflicts can very quickly significantly reduce global food production. We cannot, therefore, be lulled by the fact that we can obtain cheap food and energy from abroad in all situations. In order to ensure security of supply, we need viable agriculture, decentralised energy production and a vibrant countryside today more than we did a long time ago. The report on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry states in the draft budget for 2018 that "the administrative sector ensures the production of domestic food and the sustainable use of renewable resources and creates conditions for the livelihoods and well-being based on them". That is very well said. It was also well said several times here in the early evening debate. Another representative said that he believed in the future of Finnish agriculture, that there would be a demand for quality products in the future. I fully agree with this basic line, but, in keeping with the old saying, I am somewhat afraid that the crane will die before the swamp melts, whether domestic production will last until food becomes a truly global shortage. There is no doubt that our production has great strengths, such as the availability of clean water. In the future, climate change can weaken the productive capacity of the current favoured areas and, in relative terms, strengthen the relative production potential of our natural conditions. The future remains to be seen, but it is clear that the profitability of agricultural production needs to be improved and improved rapidly. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry rightly stated in its opinion that although the size and turnover of agriculture have increased rapidly since the beginning of the 21st century, the economic performance of agricultural and horticultural enterprises has remained weak. The profitability of enterprises has deteriorated throughout the 21st century. Annual fluctuations have increased, but the trend has been decreasing. The targets for the return on wages and capital of own work have not been met. Entrepreneurial income per holding has decreased and no return on capital has been obtained. In 2016, the total entrepreneurial income from agriculture has been estimated at EUR 494 million. In the early 2000s, entrepreneurial income was still more than EUR 1 billion. If the impact of inflation is taken into account, entrepreneurial income currently accounts for only about one third of its level in the early 2000s. In addition to immediate measures to improve profitability, measures are needed to permanently improve the profitability of agriculture and to build confidence in the future. Mr President! I think it is clear that such measures can be found mainly in measures to strengthen the position of the farmer on the market so that the distribution of income throughout the food chain can be balanced, so that the long-running share of farmers in the price of final products is reversed and the long-growing share of trade is reduced. It is not, therefore, a question of the need for consumer food prices to rise, but it is a question of making the distribution of income within the food chain compulsory, absolutely necessary, quickly more balanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u236	Mr President! Here, Mr Hakanen and Mr Viljanen spoke very well on agriculture. I myself am concerned about the profitability of the farm and the attractiveness of the sector, although I am no longer so close to agriculture. In this speech I would like to raise the issue of compensation for the damage caused by predators from the natural resource economy. It is known that predatory animal damage will amount to EUR 10.4 million at 2016 level and Finland will be allowed to compensate for reindeer damage up to EUR 10 million, which is an appropriation for Finland under the Commission's compensation scheme, a payment authorisation. When the budget cannot exceed that of 10 million, the reindeer damage suffered in 2016 was cut by 4%, and the same will therefore have to be done in this budget. I think this is a little strange thinking that the damage is not to be compensated according to what has been decided. These costs are now borne by an individual reindeer owner, and this should not be the case. I think we should find a way to do this. Reindeermen will suffer the damage caused by the beasts, and if they do not receive compensation for it, the right of their own hand will gradually come and these beasts will be removed without permission. In other words, I think that this should be taken forward in a legal way so that compensation can be paid for the damage caused by the beasts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u237	Mr President! As far as the agricultural section is concerned, I should like to thank Mr Leppää for his excellent grip, the active grip, particularly during the year. We have had a wide range of events here, and the negotiations on the future of the EU are well under way. He has very consistently done good work for our farmers there. Thank you, the Committee on Finance. Once again, we received an additional EUR 600000 for the 4H organisation. In particular, the 4H organisation, if anything, is concerned with young people's entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial education and training — according to its name. This is important work, and the other side of the 4H funding is still a little thick if we look at the contribution from the municipalities. I would also like the municipalities to take the example of going out of their way to finance the necessary expenditure. There are different agreements here with different municipalities. It is very important that we involve young people in entrepreneurship and in doing things from the very beginning. The important thing is the generational changes on our farms. In seven years we have the number of farms and the number of farmers that have fallen by several tens of thousands. We need new farmers, and it is very important how, in our educational system together, different educational institutions and research institutes will then be able to obtain sufficient information for new farmers. It is excellent to say — in the Helsingin Sanomat on Sunday — that younger farmers and new farmers are more innovative and more resourceful and ready to take risks, but we really are at risk in rural areas at the moment. For example, I take the reduced collateral values for rural properties. These are partly influenced by what we in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy have also dealt with: crisis management mechanisms in the banking sector. In other words, I would see that we should further strengthen the state funding — the guarantee system we have, but we still need to move on to these generational exchanges — because the balance sheet values of these farms are quite high at the moment. It is not enough just to build a new barn if the livestock capital and the rest are still on top of it, i.e. they are large in balance sheet values. It requires guarantees, and then it also requires strong training and skills. The Care Farmer project is excellent. There was an additional EUR 1 million, and the relief money for this year was also reduced by EUR 1 million. That is an excellent thing, because in many farms this endurance is very tight. Representatives of Hakanen and Viljanen have also pointed out the plight of agriculture and the tight economy in the past. On the forest side, we should thank Minister Leppää as well as Minister Tiilika for getting the LULUCF decision for some kind of model, but the future will show us whether we are still a carbon sink in the finals or whether we are the source of emissions. I hope that Finland will be able to use it in such a way that our carbon sinks are growing and we can still cut down forests by the additional 15 million cubic metres proposed by the government, because we have good forest growth and we also have a good forest information system. But we still have things to do with this forest management. In RED 2, too, I hope that the ministers will be able to cope with the fact that we will get it well in the finish line. One more thing, Mr President, on top of that: the beasts. I am from the area where bears walk in the yard, wolves in the corners, there are also lynx and even new arrivals at the moment. It is wonderful that at least bear permits have come in sufficient quantities, and I also hope that, as far as wolves are concerned, a very clear statement to this wolf is made that they will be appropriately reduced, that they do not just roll around and learn the fear of man.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u238	Mr President! There have really been some excellent speeches here on the agricultural situation, and Mrs Parviainen and Mr Pirttilahti have raised a very important issue here, the future of this continuation. We all know that the system of waivers will end next year and that our Finnish agricultural support system has also been maligned in Europe, to a large extent, as regards the way in which this system of waivers has been compatible with the State aid guidelines, and now that it has been decided to end after next year, it has now been discovered in that European Union as a rather significant incentive system for those who continue. Hope is now hard in the direction of influencing Brussels, and it has often been said to Mr Levä that it may now be a place for this system of waivers to continue in some form during the next programming period and thus for us to safeguard the possibility of continuation. But of course everyone understands that that basic support in agriculture is everything a and o, and now there are worrying figures, too, in the way that since last year around a thousand farms have stopped production and less than 500 farms so far have taken over its production. In other words, about half of the farms that have left them have not yet been able to find a successor to this day, which means that we have a great deal to do here, that we can get this basic incentive in order and that these crisis packages will be removed, and in that way young producers will also see that there is a real chance of living for the family of the future. Let me comment on what Mr Pirttila has done and also on what Mrs Parviainen has done for the damage: Of course, we also have an important place in it to be able to pay those damages in the course of next year. For example, when claims for deer and deer damage are made at the end of the year, it is only then that compensation comes from the previous year. So we're living like a year late.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u239	Mr President! A few words on the profitability of agriculture. It is clear that the conditions for income and investment subsidies can contribute to the development of income and profitability in agriculture, but it is very important that they can have very limited impact. This is because even at high levels of aid production and investment cannot be maintained if the market outlook is poor for a long time. It is therefore necessary to improve the role of primary production in the food chain by means of measures that promote the role of primary production in the food chain. At the same time, the dominant role of processing, in particular trade, must be re-evaluated. The fall in producer prices must be stopped by improving the position of the farmer as part of the chain. There is a clear problem that farmers are currently in a position to play a subordinate role in the negotiations with the food industry and the grocery trade. Price competition in grocery trade has contributed to lower prices for agricultural products. This can be seen as a good thing for the consumer, but the income of farmers has been falling significantly at the same time. In this respect, food prices are being reduced by primary producers. The share of primary production in the consumer price of food has decreased even further. A more balanced and diversified competition between the retail chains would reduce the dominant position of trade vis-à-vis producers. The aim must be to achieve a more balanced functioning of the market in terms of primary production and consumer choice. All sectors of production must be offered new ways of managing the market and improving the bargaining power of farmers, e.g. through producer and industry organisations. It is therefore very important that this issue of balancing the food supply chain should move forward and move forward at a rapid pace. Here too, I have every confidence in Minister Leppa. It is also necessary to further clarify how the costs of agricultural production can be reduced and, at least, the costs must not be increased by state intervention. Moreover, bureaucracy must also be reduced for cost-saving reasons. Clean food and clean water play a special role in relation to other commodities. Consumers value clean food, such as local food or organic food. In order to enable consumers to influence the production of domestic food through their purchasing decisions, they need to be better informed about where the food is produced and what the price of food is made of. Transparency is needed to indicate the share of primary production, industry and trade. The labelling of the origin of the products should therefore be further improved. In this parliamentary term, they have already been improved on a number of occasions. It is also very important for the food chain as a whole that measures to promote the export of agricultural products are stepped up. It is therefore very good that the draft budget has proposed additional funding for the promotion of food exports. Mr President! Particular attention must also be paid to aspects that ensure the survival of the farmer. Farmers need concrete measures to help overcome the current difficult economic situation. I'm glad you're here. Funding for the intermediate farmer project was also continued for next year. The organisation of leave is also central to the survival of the entrepreneur as well as to the welfare of animals. Holiday services, substitute services and the possibility of a subsidised paid holiday must be secured for all holiday entitled persons. Finally, I would like to thank Minister Leppää, who has done an excellent job as Minister in these very difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u240	Mr President! The representative mentioned, among other things, the profitability of this agricultural sector, which is one of the things to be concerned about. One way to increase profitability is, of course, always specialisation, and that is where one good option is the transition to organic production, especially since we know that the demand for organic products is only growing all the time. It was therefore gratifying to see that the committee had also added a small amount of money to Pro Organic so that this information on organic production could be increased and more farmers could choose it as their method of production. Then I would like to remind you of this, when much has also been said about bioeconomy, about increasing fellings in forests, that if more fellings are added, then the plans that the government is now making for an increase of 15 million cubic metres are certainly untenable. I believe that there is little room for increase in felling today, because the forest is growing faster, but at the same time we must ensure that our diversity in forests is preserved. That is why it is regrettable that nature conservation, the protection of forests in particular, is not sufficiently resourced in this budget book, and secondly that our carbon stocks are not dwindling, because even though we all know that when the forest grows, coal is bound by the forest, the drastic logging plans that the government now has would mean that the stock will at first be significantly reduced before it begins to grow and reach the present level after years. When we look at the fight against climate change, it would be far too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u241	Mr President! In the case of animals, the position of Mr Parviainen and Mr Hakanen and also Mr Viljanen has been taken from here. There is also one species of non-humane animals, which has not yet been mentioned, but which we are working on, and hopefully the Minister will get results: the role of the birds of damage at the moment, especially in large herds in the fields of the south. It should be provided with sufficient resources to compensate for these damage. On the matter of the forest: Our forest farms will be fragmented and even more urbanised. It is very important how information can be obtained on the use of forests and how forest owners can also be activated to manage those forests, so that these felling estimates can also be reached in the future. There is one source of funding here, and I have also been grateful to see the report on finance in that it seeks money for Kemera funding for this year, but also, if there is no use for this year, it can be transferred as transfer appropriations for next year. It is very important that we continue to maintain this system of funding for the early management of seedlings, for the management of young forests, but also for road networks. Another thing that has been done during the government is a reduction in forest gifts. But then we have to give a little snoop in the sense that once we have done a good job as a government and even the whole of Parliament with regard to red tape, we have calculated in the centre that as many as 303 areas of red tape have been decommissioned — of which Mr Hakanen remembers better, there are probably more than fifty or so targets — I think there are sixty or so in agriculture — a little too much red tape in the direction of the Ministry of Finance. If it were to make bureaucracy easier, I would also believe that it would also make it a little easier for the generation of forest farms. It is important to do them precisely because of the fragmentation of this space.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u242	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It was also the turn of the kuttu speech this year, and it was so great that Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who is a bully, is listening to the speech of a colleague who is a bully. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the kutu is a useful animal, and the kuttu deserves to be mentioned again this year in the sectional debates of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the state budget for the coming year. In this Chamber, many do not realize the unimaginable impact that the spawns have had on the culture of the Northern Hemisphere. The origin of the spawn is so old that the first goat’s milk abusers are, according to stories, always found among the nomadic peoples of East Asia from prehistoric times, that is, quite a distance. From there the noble culture of spawning has gone first to Russia, then to Central Europe and finally to us here in the North and all the way to Tyrvai. The excellent world domination of the spawning is no surprise to me, because I know the true value of the animal with Mr President, who has its roots in the spawning bearer. The kuttu is loyal to its owner like a dog but much less food. The kuttu will accept even the lowest feed in the house, which may be contaminated. If the rains in the summer, like last summer, have been able to spoil the grass a little, it has certainly been delicious for the spawn. Mr President! My speech last year gave me some direct feedback from the originator, the veteran MP Timo Roos. According to the feedback, the modernized versions of the spawning speech have drifted too far from the original purpose. I took the feedback with respect and seriousness, admitting that the humor that had already been associated with the speech during his representative years is the most difficult species of verbalism, where even the less experienced can easily be misled. That's why I'm going to brighten up a little bit of the old man's idea: "It's okay to be funny, but there's got to be something to say." Mr. Speaker! That is why I am going directly to the point this year, because the spawns have something to offer us on the military front as well. For example, the highly secret studies of modern warfare methods by the U.S. Army have, according to the story, sought to find and test new kinds of psychic powers by staring at the mystical eyes of the spawn — and this is not a joke but a complete truth. The subject has even been made a reality-based film. In all its simplicity, it's called "Men Staring at the Years." It is said that this film has also been watched every year in the last few days in the headlines of journalists in a county newspaper at the basement Christmas party. So much power lies in the spawns whose soul life we think we know, but we certainly do not. Mr President! After all, it is said that if it is not evildoing, it is thinking about it. Therefore, spawning is the most important act of trust that only completely honest people can engage in fraud. That is precisely why Parliament could also take up spawning at the entrances to this house. At least there shouldn't be any confusion on the guest lists after that. Of course, in that winter in the cold, it would be a terrible sight for strangers. On the other hand, I also see that many ministers would have a great talent for spawning, that much honest people sitting in that box every week. Mr President! There are many other agricultural sectors which are very different in that they operate almost entirely on market conditions, i.e. without any subsidies — well, in the A, B region here in the south, without subsidies, in the C area they enjoy small subsidies. It is quite clear that the owners of the spawning stock are, in this sense, in an unequal position among other farmers and are consciously a little bitter about it. They certainly deserve the recognition of all of us and also this own speech, which will end this section debate this parliamentary year. At the time, the basis for speaking was the difficult situation of spawning farms, and it has not changed at all during these talks, any easier. Mr President! The old Satakunta region, from which we come with the President, which also included a large part of Pirkanmaa back in the day, is still a fairly regular spawning area. In the past, this area has been a country-famous spawner, where it is very likely that, during the summer, large herds of weavers, sometimes even tens, covering 70 to 80 individuals, have come across. Perhaps this is why the kuttu has nested faithful to its ways stubbornly in that very area. So the kuttu is a stubborn animal, even the chief, and it does not give up in its fight against time. There are still things made by the spawns in the present Sastamala area, such as coat of arms, club logos, and, for example, the fairy tales of Mauri Kunnas, a prominent figure of the Sastamala century. In addition, the sculptor Veikko Haukkavaara’s metal spawning sculpture may still run into the Sastamala Park Street while visiting the center of Vammala. Whether the horned horn is played by Töröttäjät and many proverbs in the area have been influenced by strong - willed spawns. One proverb is: Live like a goat in a hunky. That is exactly what has happened to the spawn in the culture of my hometown. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And we are not really staining it, are we, Mr President? This animal, which has also been praised as a poor man's cow, should be exploited, appreciated and praised, under no circumstances slandered or despised. In recent years, when I talk here about the health effects of spawning milk, I have not even joked about it. Indeed, spawning milk has been considered to have significant health effects. Many spawning shepherds resorted to the milk of the spawn if the snake got bit. It significantly delayed the effects of the poison in order to get to the doctor in time. Similarly, it was believed that when children are fed spawn’s milk, it guarantees a long and strong life. How do you know if one of our presidential candidates’ long - term genetics may be from this baby - drinking spawn’s milk? Who knows? Well, whatever it is, it's a modern-day superfood that's obviously not appreciated high enough. Mr President! Well, listen up, they've been talking a lot about spawning milk for men and women of old. There's the buzzards, there's the sips. Although it felt a little bad at first, it gradually got better, almost as it did with alcohol, which has not been discussed in recent days, but the outcome is much healthier. A Christmas party for parliamentary groups could be a good place to serve spawning milk next year. Might calm that situation down a little bit. [Laughter] Mr President! Kuttu deserves a 100-year-old Finland's honor mention, as it fits the Finnish mentality very well. The determined attitude of the animal and the characteristic scent of ammonia and even perspiration reflect the hard work that is done in the Finnish farmers' field every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u243	Presentation of Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The debate is about to begin. — Representative, President of the Chamber, Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u244	Mr President! Minister, next year the budget for the section will be EUR 3.38 billion, which will be around EUR 138 million more than this year. Most of the resources will be allocated to the maintenance and development of the transport network, and the correction debt programme will result in a higher level of funding for basic infrastructure management. The draft budget also includes measures based on the interim report of the Parliamentary Transport Network Working Group aimed at reducing emissions from transport. EUR 16 million will be allocated to the promotion of low-emission transport. Purchases for rail transport will also be increased by EUR 2 million. The aim is to renew the passenger car fleet to a lower level of emissions by continuing to pay the scrapping premium in a situation where the buyer receives compensation for buying a new low-emission or zero-emission car. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, it is proposed to set up a new equity acquisition item for which an increase of EUR 2 million is proposed. The proposal relates to two projects which will increase the number of companies in the Ministry’s field of activity: in the second project, the Finnish Transport Agency’s existing road, maritime and rail traffic management activities are to be incorporated into a state-owned special purpose company as of 1 January 2019 and in the second project rail passenger transport is to be opened up to competition. Basic infrastructure management, reduction of repair debt: The appropriation for this article is EUR 1.4 billion, of which more than half, EUR 763 million, is allocated to road maintenance, approximately EUR 540 million to the renovation of the network and EUR 96 million to the renovation of waterways. An exceptionally high level of funding is based on the so-called correction debt programme, the implementation of which will be allocated EUR 453 million next year. The growth of the repair debt has now been brought to a halt and many problems have been corrected and the traffic safety and smoothness of the transport network have been improved. However, the extent of the problems is explained by the fact that despite the correction debt programme, the number of road and rail bridges in poor condition is increasing, the infrastructure condition index is falling and the number of road bridges with limited weight is expected to remain unchanged. Additional resources allocated to the correction debt programme are still available in 2018 and 2019, but without new decisions, the level of funding will fall to the 2015 level in 2020. In order for the correction debt to continue to decrease, the basic funding for basic infrastructure maintenance must also be increased during the next parliamentary term. A steady and adequate level of funding will also contribute to decision-making in the field of civil engineering and investment. The committee adds EUR 11.8 million to this item and allocates it to smaller road safety and business environment projects with cost estimates ranging from EUR 200000 to EUR 1 million. The total number of these projects is 19 in the whole country. Rail network and level crossings: Rail network problems have weakened the punctuality of long-distance rail transport in particular, and the whole year has been weaker than last year in terms of punctuality, and August-September remains the weakest in this millennium. The committee stresses the need for infrastructure rehabilitation to improve the safety, smoothness and operational security of rail transport. The Committee also considers it important that the draft budget complements the draft budget with an increase of EUR 2 million to improve level crossings. Of course, there is a much greater need for additional appropriations, as there are a very large number of level crossings on the network. At the beginning of 2017, there were approximately 2100 level crossings without the Road Warning Agency. The draft budget includes six new transport investments, namely Ring One Broad Gulf, West Metro extension connections, Highway 4 Kirri-Tikkakoski, Kokkola Maritime Passage, Vuosaari Sea Passage and a fixed link to Hailuoto to be built as a life-cycle project. The Committee's expert consultation has also drawn attention to the budgeting of transport projects, which do not sufficiently support the implementation of profitable projects. One of the problems is that transport investments are treated as an item of expenditure in the budget, despite the fact that these investments produce social impact for decades to come and are essential for economic growth and exports. The Committee considers it important that the parliamentary transport network working group should find new solutions which will contribute to the appropriate, adequate and long-term financing and development of transport projects. They must also support the sustainability of public finances in the long term. Mr President! The draft budget includes an increase of EUR 2 million in the security of information security and in the verification and development of privacy. The need for funding is substantially increased by the ongoing rapid development of transport automation, robotics and the Internet of Things, among other things. The Committee stresses the need to re-assess the level of appropriations when drawing up the next budgetary plan and to take account of the objectives set out in the cybersecurity strategy. Mr President! It is also worth thanking the Minister for the decision announced today to increase the purchase services for rail transport by EUR 2 million for the whole kingdom. In particular, the representatives of Kainuu, North Karelia and North Savo here will thank the Minister for this good decision, which is based on the additions made by the Parliamentary Transport Network Group last summer to this item, so cooperation in this area will produce results.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u245	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u246	Mr President! The draft budget for 2018 by the Ministry of Transport and Communications is a well thought-out and balanced entity supporting Finland's economic growth. The proposal includes a number of new investments in the transport network. In addition, the proposal will continue to reduce the repair debt and will support the acceleration of transport and communication services. The total amount of the performance is approximately EUR 3.39 billion, of which the majority, approximately EUR 2 billion, is devoted to the maintenance and development of the corridors. The objective of basic bus maintenance is to maintain the state’s transport infrastructure assets in a state-owned condition throughout the country. This is essential for the mobility of citizens and for the needs of the business community. Basic bus maintenance includes additional funding to reduce the repair debt. The reduction of the repair debt is a strategic objective of the government, and its activities are targeted, among other things, at surfaces and structures, bridges and railway yards of high traffic sections. The Committee on Finance has proposed to add EUR 11.8 million to basic improvement projects. Although projects are partly small, actions are important in terms of road safety and business conditions for local residents. I thank the committee for this addition. An additional EUR 2 million will also be allocated next year to improve the safety of level crossings. That alone is not sufficient funding, but this will get us started. Funding for basic transport infrastructure management will amount to around EUR 1.4 billion next year. This is a record amount compared to previous years. Six new transport investments are starting, which is a major contribution to the development of the land waterway network. The conditions for public transport in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area will be improved by two projects, the Ring One transport arrangements for the implementation of the rail-joker and the West Metro extension of the connection transport project. These projects improve the flow of commuting for tens of thousands of people. These will contribute to the strengthening of the urban structure, i.e. the construction of new residential areas. The aim is to ensure that good public transport connections are built in the regions, and we will contribute to reducing emissions from transport by creating alternatives to the use of our own car. In the case of maritime routes, the deepening of the corridors leading to the ports of Vuosaari and Kokkola in Helsinki will begin. These projects will improve the conditions for our country's vital foreign trade. A major Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway project will be launched in Central Finland to improve traffic flow and safety on Highway 4. The allocation for the abovementioned investments for next year will be around EUR 31 million and the total amount of the mandate for the entire period of implementation will be EUR 223 million. In addition, it was decided to improve the transport connections of Hailuoto through a fixed link to the mainland. The project will be implemented by means of a life cycle model. Mr President! The objectives of national climate policy will be promoted by increasing rail transport purchases and by developing public transport in large cities. The latter aims at the digitalisation of transport and the promotion of new services. EUR 5.5 million has been earmarked for these actions. These contributions were generally decided by a working group assessing the financing of the parliamentary transport network. Finland’s emissions targets are also promoted in the transport sector. Vehicle scrapping premiums will continue. The buyer gets a refund when buying a new zero-emission or low-emission car. A government proposal has been submitted to Parliament on this subject, including support for the purchase of electric cars and the conversion of passenger cars into gas or ethanol. The aim is to reform the fleet of cars so that more and more cars run on alternative propulsion instead of non-renewable fuels. A total of EUR 14 million has been earmarked for support in the budget. For next year, the budget of FICORA has been increased by EUR 2 million to improve security of information and privacy. This will implement the Government’s cybersecurity strategy and develop information security even at a higher level than is currently the case. This is vital in an increasingly digital society. EUR 1 million will be allocated to the Finnish Meteorological Institute for the expansion of the regulatory radar network in Northern Finland and additional funding for participation in European research cooperation in the small particle, cloud and small gas research network. We have international excellence in this area, and the aim is to have the network's headquarters located in Finland. Mr President! These are the key withdrawals from our administration. We are a relatively small part of the state budget, but I dare say that the importance of action for the whole country and the national economy is even greater. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u247	It is now an opportunity to ask for a 1-minute reply, and they will begin with Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u248	Mr President! In fact, I would like to inversely thank the government for the fact that next summer you will have more and more angry people in Finland when they stand in line for road construction sites. So this is the peak year when the debt of repair is removed, and next summer will be a really intense time for construction. However, this maintenance is temporary and must somehow be made to continue. Is there any idea or way of getting enough funding, and also means of monitoring and precision improvements where there is a need for correction? Now milk trucks and other things like this are making a digital map. Is it possible to expand this digital monitoring in order to achieve more with less money in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u249	Mr President! The big picture of transport is in order, and it is thanks to Minister Berner for his capacity for reform and for his willingness and willingness to invest in transport and access. From the perspective of the fairway, next year will indeed be a super-year in terms of funding. We have nearly EUR 500 million in reparation money available for the repair and improvement of existing routes, i.e. roads, ports and railways. New investment projects are also being launched, the list is long, and I am sure we can all praise them in these speeches for our region. For the first time, the EUR 14 million will also be allocated to the emissions targets of the transport sector, which will support the purchase of electric and gas cars and also the construction of their charging and distribution infrastructure, and the scrapping premium will continue. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the urgent need to align the funding models for the future of transport projects with those of Parliament, and that is what we have a parliamentary opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u250	Mr President! Again, good new investments have been made and investments are being made to reduce the debt. Money is well spent at the moment. Thank you, Mr Berner, for your vigorous efforts in dealing with these issues. It might be said that things are going well in the kingdom at the moment, but how will it be in the future? It is currently being considered by the parliamentary task force on the transport network, which I hope will complete its work by the end of February and then come forward with the answers on how the costs of our transport infrastructure will be managed in the future. Work for this task force for the time being. In his speech, the Minister raised this issue of cybersecurity and I would like to express my concern about it. Some 2 million were granted for next year, but 5 million had been requested. I now appeal to the whole Parliament and the Committee on Budgets in particular to put this matter as far as possible into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u251	Mr President! I personally feel that the main problem with transport policy is its impromptuness and lack of a stable outlook, and this is where we all have a big task to do. Although funding is now being allocated to basic infrastructure management, it must be remembered that it is being carried out largely at the expense of new projects. It is the will of the parliamentary working party that has worked during the last parliamentary term that the debt-to-recovery process will be carried out, and the government will make the greatest effort to do so next year, but the level will collapse again the following year. In the worst case scenario, this means that it will raise prices and, as a result, will reduce the effectiveness of these investments over the next year. I too hope that the super-year mentioned by Mr Vehkaperä will remain to be seen. Then, with regard to our major climate objectives, which are also a major challenge for all of us, I would like to remind the government that this will not just be achieved by digitalisation, but we will need more investment in public transport and in a better physical transport network, simply not by rail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u252	Mr President! I will now focus on just one detail in the section, Mr Kopra, which has already raised the issue of security of information and the verification of privacy, i.e. the Finnish Communications Agency’s Cybersecurity Centre. The government is proposing an increase of EUR 2 million in its appropriations. Unfortunately, the need is at least 5 million. As a pioneer in preparedness for cyber threats from Finland, the cybersecurity strategy’s promises may have been nothing but fake news without a basis for reality. The inadequacy of the appropriations was demonstrated during the hearings of the Committee on Transport and Communications and the committee unanimously asked the Committee on Finance to propose an increase of EUR 5 million in the allocation for the Cybersecurity Centre. Unfortunately, the performance fell on deaf ears. The Committee on Finance added EUR 11.8 million to the section but sprinkled it as Christmas money on small transport projects across Finland — no matter about national cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u253	Mr President! Thank you very much for doing what we now have in the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. We're gonna need more action. Then we come to what the committee in its report refers to when it encourages the Transport Network Group to take decisions. We have an old-fashioned system: profitable transport investments and maintenance costs are together. No municipality budgets investments and operating expenditure for the same item. Now we need to find a solution to this long-term transport funding, and here I encourage all parties to be involved now in finding solutions. Of course it is possible, but if officials from the Treasury take a very old-fashioned attitude, then we will not be able to move, and that is simply not going to happen anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u254	Mr President! We cannot blame the fact that money has not been spent on the repair debt, but, as Mr Taimela said, expectations can be enormously high, but it can mean flops in the following years. When new projects are being prepared at the Ministry of Transport, I would have asked the Minister — without questioning Kokkola or Vuosaarta — when Satakunta is, for example, the second strongest exporting region in this country and we have a lot of transport projects that we would need for the export industry and industry, industry, infrastructure to work even better and bring more export revenues to the national economy. I would ask: would it be possible to at least start planning the introduction of the Pori-Haapamäki track, even if it were to be investigated? It would free up space for passenger traffic on the main track and bring the necessary tarpaulin traffic to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u255	Mr President! First of all, I should like to thank the President of the Section, Mr Eestilä, for the way in which he has worked and for the proper procedure and for what he has done in dealing with this budget. It is true that it is a fact during this term of government, thanks to the government, that it is based on the work of the previous working group. However, the condition of the lower tier road network in these weather conditions, which is now for the second year, has become very bad. There was news in Pohjalainen magazine about how the school bus was unable to pick up schoolchildren due to road conditions. I would like to ask the Minister: has the Finnish Transport Agency now been asked to explain the condition of our lower road network at the moment? It is not the government's fault, it is the lack of money, of course the Parliament's fault in part, but also these weather conditions, which are quite exceptional.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u256	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister, when more than 500 million are invested in reducing the amount of the correction debt, and there is a total of 2 billion: how much is that correction debt going to increase every year, and how much should be invested in it every year, that it will sometimes be put to an end?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u257	Mr President! Once again, I would like to thank you for the financing of the Southern Ring Road in Lahti, to which almost 200 million countries have pledged and EUR 65.8 million for next year. The money will come in handy and the project will proceed. But then a little criticism of this car wrecking fee. This is now removing the cars that all the poorest people will be using in the coming years. So this scrapping premium does not remove the oldest cars, but rather the newer cars at the moment, which is another great difference between people. In view of the fact that the poorest cannot afford to buy those low - emission new cars that are expensive, it would be nice to have some other form of this, such an intermediate form that there will be some kind of support for used, low - emission cars in the future. Then I would also remind you that when a person acquires a new car, it also drives much more, meaning that the emissions do not decrease as much as is thought. Even if the high-emission comes out of traffic and the low-emission comes in,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u258	A well-functioning infrastructure is the basic starting point for the development of the whole country. That is why it is historic that more than EUR 900 million will be allocated during this term of government to reduce the debt. It is an historic decision, let us look back many decades. At the same time, private road funding was increased and important investments are also being made. Several development projects are targeted across the country, which take the development of each province and the operating conditions of the business community forward and also improve Finland’s competitiveness. I, too, strongly appeal now to all the opposition parties, including the opposition parties, to find a common solution in this parliamentary work that will be able to permanently increase the funding for transport. It will also be needed in the future in the coming reigns. It is therefore desirable that the opposition should also give strong support to the proposals made by the Minister here in the working group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u260	Mr President! At the end of the last period, there was indeed a parliamentary corrective debt task force, and it is good that the government, in line with the wishes of that working party, has taken steps to improve the level of basic bus maintenance. But it was not decided in the parliamentary working group that there would be a development debt at the same time. Isn't it, Minister, that this period is historically low on new projects, only 0.7 billion, compared with 2.5 billion in previous years? I agree with that request from the Transport Section or with the call for future attention to be paid to the need to refurbish the network, because now there have been delays on many tracks. As you travel from here to Joensuu from Helsinki, you can get to Imatra at the same time by car as by train at the moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u261	Mr President! Transport plays a very important role in reducing emissions and achieving climate objectives, and now this future budget aims to accelerate it through various measures. One of these activities here is the scrapping premium that Mr Lehdo has already mentioned. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we also heard about this scrapping premium, and there was an interesting idea that scrapping premiums could also be used for the purchase of, for example, bicycles or electric bicycles or possibly public transport tickets. How does the Minister feel about this, and could this be an issue that could be promoted in the budget for the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u262	Mr President! In the field of transport, this parliamentary term has focused specifically on stopping the debt to repair the basic routes. It is a very good thing that it has been stopped. Thank you very much for this work to Mr Berner and also to the government. There has indeed been a historic change. There are renovation work everywhere in Finland — a good thing — and those work will continue next year. I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for the new additions that were made there, the 19 items. The Finnish road network is about three-quarters private roads, and the level of state aid for private roads must also be established on a permanent and sustainable basis, at least what it is at the moment. I find it increasingly difficult to launch major road projects through current budget funding. That is why I hope that all the parliamentary groups will be jointly behind new solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u263	Värderade Herr Talman! Först ett tack till minister Berner för att ni fördomsfritt försöker förnya våra trafiksystem, och också utnyttja de öjligheter som bland you give digitaliseringen för med sig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u264	Mr President! I'd like to bring up Highway 21. Thank you for your efforts there, but I must say that funding is still inadequate. There's a hell of a lot of stuff going on in the arm road, and there's no truck racing like that anywhere. Foreigners do not pay for the use of the road but cause damage, numerous incidents and delays in traffic. Last winter there were 140 trucks on the road from Muonio to Kolari, and the same pace is still going on. It's only a matter of time before more accidents happen than derailment. I hope that this message will not remain at the level of the debate. Action is needed to improve road safety on that road. My second question concerns the winter tyre requirement. It's been out from time to time. Yes, we have those foreigners out there who do not have these winter tires in use. I hope that the Minister will answer where this preparation is at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u265	Mr President! I welcome the fact that the government is proposing conversion aid for biogas cars, but there is still a need for support for the production of biogas in rural areas. From a climate point of view, it is important to get transport on track, and there is much more support in the green alternative budget for rail repair and construction. We have an increase of nearly EUR 60 million for the railway project, and we will also return the purchase of train services to full, the cuts you made in 2015. I would ask you to give an assessment of what is now in train traffic on the sections you cut off in 2015. In addition, I am also very interested in the railway project in Uusimaa. Representative Blomqvist raised the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track in a good way. I would also like to ask you about the refurbishment of the beach track, which is also important because both the Turku trains and the commuter trains are flexible enough for the tracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u266	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for having invested in catching up with the transport network's repair debts. My own view is that the more exports pull and goods go, the more we have tires on the road. I have stayed to think about the fact that if some of the traffic could be transferred to inland waterway transport, it is precisely when it comes to transporting wood from the forest to the factories and so on. What kind of measures has the Minister been thinking about, could it be possible to move the timber transport out of that road so that they can come down to water? At the same time, these 2030 environmental objectives would be pursued.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u267	Mr President! I think that the guidelines of this government are very well on track in the sense that the focus has been specifically on the renovation of the basic route and the maintenance of the repair debt, and it has been assessed how much that need is. Thank you for that policy to the Minister. It is important that this parliamentary working party now find an agreement which looks to the future 10 to 12 years from now and considers how this funding of transport and transport networks will be implemented in Finland in the future, because it seems that this current budget-based funding base does not allow for a sufficiently long-term plan. Vinjet fee is one single thing, which I would like the Minister to state: how will it work in Finland in the future? On the other hand, this amount of 2.2 million for level crossings, which has now been shown: what is the estimate if all of these
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u268	Mr President! I'd like to thank the Minister myself. He has brought a new hold on this whole review of the transport sector. New issues have been raised here, and they have also been patched up, because this parliamentary debt task force, which was set up over the last period, would not have been needed at all if the state had not failed to manage its own assets over the last 20 years. I am referring specifically to infrastructure. I personally admit to being completely infrasive, but I have other religions that I recognize. In my opinion, society works well if education is in order, the tax systems are in order and the infrastructure is working. These three conditions must be met. I have not seen a developing area anywhere in the world where transport connections have not been in good condition. People who read this article of Helsingin Sanomat about where the money has gone in recent years should not fight over whether it has been good or bad or whether someone has received more than another. Let's take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u269	Would the minister have three minutes to begin? Let's give it five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u270	Mr. Speaker! Thank you for these feedbacks. — I would like to stress that the parliamentary working party is working specifically on the basis of parliamentarianism. We have had about 17 meetings so far, and hopefully we can move forward in a good spirit, as we have done so far. The desired mode is now to seek continuity. In the Road Act we have presented a 12-year cycle to plan the transport system and the transport network in the future. Now, in this parliamentary group, we are looking for the solution of how to find a common financing method for such a 12-year cycle. The correction debt will increase by EUR 100 million per year. From now on, we would need 300 million per year to cover the correction debt to 2027 in order to complete it and then keep it even. From this point of view, this is extremely important work that is currently being done. Mr Kymäläinen, it is precisely as it is that at the moment we have been transferred from development funds to the management of the correction debt, and that is, of course, the continuity, that is, the decisions of the previous Government and Parliamentary term will be implemented during this period. Now it would be our job to see how we can move on from here to the next season. Although we have now managed to raise the level of development projects to about one billion with these last decisions, we are still at a low level. E-bikes are part of this future and the government is becoming a programme of walking and cycling to see if we can find a system of purchasing subsidies in this whole, which would then also support our climate objectives from this point of view. But then the many questions that have been raised about the needs of rail transport: We have now been able, through these decisions that we have taken, both by raising the burden traffic and now by increasing the purchase volume by 2 million, to reach about the level which was perhaps slightly higher in 2015, in the sections of public transport. But, of course, this is not enough, and solutions are still needed. In addition to this, our main objectives are to ensure that the share of rail transport in passenger traffic is increased. This would require electrification of many tracks, speeding up many sections of the line, so that, of course, investment in both housing and business in those areas would also increase, employment areas would increase and, consequently, rail traffic would also increase. This requires long-term visibility and I hope that we will find solutions in the parliamentary debate. It is true at the moment that there have been challenges with regard to road maintenance in relation to this very challenging winter. Weather conditions have varied rapidly, and we have also had plenty of water. All in all, the living have now made estimates of how our roads have been carried out during this autumn. As such, the measures have been technically maintained, with the exception of Pirkanmaa in some respects. Otherwise, we have been able to keep the level we have been promised. But it is now considered whether, on certain roads, the treatment class can be increased and, if so, how much, for how many kilometres. All in all, 16 and 17 have increased the road maintenance category for some 900 km and have sought to improve road safety and also the maintenance level for roads. In addition, we have legislation on winter tyres and it is already binding on heavy traffic in this winter, that is to say, we have moved forward. Then, with regard to the vignette, we are going to have to complete the legislation during this reign, and let us hope that it will also come into force next year. As far as level crossings are concerned, it is well known that 2 million million will not yet go very far, and I would like to see a fund-type thinking that would then commit itself to dismantling the level crossings as far as they are dangerous in Finland. I'm well aware of Highway 21. It is very challenging for us at the moment and we are trying to see how we can find solutions to it. There are many other projects that should be promoted,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u271	Mr President! Indeed, this long-term planning is needed, so that it includes all modes of transport together. We have always justified these various bus projects by working better with jobs and exports and others, but now, at least in our own region, the concentration of emergency services has become new. That is why it would be necessary to receive the 15th, because there are thousands of ambulance rides coming there solely in relation to the centralisation of emergency services. It is a good thing that today — perhaps for those who go to work — there was additional funding on VR’s side, but it should be made available for ambulances. Here reference was made to the Helsingin Sanomat article on these projects and their calculation very well, and I was proud of Kymenlaakso, but the reality is a little harsher: the cost of life-cycle projects had been calculated, not the third, which is the real cost of investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u272	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for those answers. — In fact, well-functioning routes are a prerequisite for society’s service to the road user and also for the functioning of the business community and for people’s services. Indeed, this continuing period of failure has increased maintenance costs by around 10%, and the budget for the Ely Centres is also limited. I myself sincerely hope that the requirements that are being laid down for the contractors will now also be reviewed and that the ongoing chaining of those contractors has also been a matter of concern. Minister, I would also like to ask about the fact that these special permits for special lorries, the HCT, are about to end in part next year, and now the contractors, the truck owners, are concerned: will they continue with these permits or will there be permanent legislation, that these heavy-duty vehicles will be allowed to drive those routes permanently?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u273	Mr President! I would like to ask about the government's efforts to support electric motoring. In fact, we Greens have a five-year exemption from vehicle tax for electric cars in order to make them available to more people, and also an investment of EUR 3 million in the charging infrastructure. What plans does the government have to promote the charge infra for electric cars, and what schedule do you expect them to move forward? The idea that you have an obligation to mix is also a major driver of the climate objectives of transport, which leads a large part of biomass to combustion. On the other hand, I would like to know how you have combined with other policies in order to obtain more and more new, sustainable, time-consuming wood products, so that not all wood being cut into biofuels alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u274	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for this very proactive approach. You have made an active effort to seek different financing models, both for our transport arrangements and for tax arrangements in their entirety. This catching up of the debt is a hard task, and I really hope that the next governments will be fully involved. Among other things, in our direction, in Pirkanmaa, at least Kolmostie and Ysitie, which head towards Jyväskylä, are very stuffy in terms of industry and other activities. As regards this digitalisation, thank you for the fact that fibre optic networks have been developed and brought closer to buildings with a lower share of ownership. But with regard to the role of the telephone companies and others, who would be involved in these companies, I hope that they will also be able to become more active in it. As far as rail transport is concerned, thank you for the information today that EUR 2 million has been allocated to purchasing. In particular, thank you on behalf of Mr Savola and his representative for the fact that the train is moving between Seinäjoki and Vilppula.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u275	Mr President! We have a very large number of road sections where the problems are the lack of traffic, insecurity and the disadvantages for the surrounding population and land use development, but fortunately we are now partially improving these. On behalf of the whole province of South Savo, I would therefore like to thank you for finally getting the money and the work started next year after 30 years of lobbying to improve the Mikkeli-Juva base. We should only be driving more of these 120 million euro projects here, because the feedback of all those companies from our province is that their success will be helped by good transport connections and a skilled workforce in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u276	Mr President! In recent years, tourism in Lapland has developed very much, and this year, again, it has developed by 27% in the beginning of the year, which means that growth is truly spectacular and staggering. The first thing about tourism is the connections, the fact that transport connections are playing is everything a and o. Now, first of all, thank you for today's news that we will be able to improve traffic in Kolari again by train. I wish we could get that electrification on that track sometime. But what is important about tourism in Lapland is now this law on transport services and how we can connect transport and tourism services there in a new way. That's where we've got a big challenge. On the intelligent transport side, I would like to thank you very much for once again providing more funding for the activities of the Meteorological Institute in Sodankylä, where there are really big plans for the development of intelligent transport, and it is important for both tourism and mining. Now I would like to ask the Minister: what should we Laplanders do?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u277	The answer, the representative... Jaha, Congressman Myllykoski and Congressman Semi are gone. - I'm sorry. She's not gone. You have the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u278	Thank you, Chairman. If Mr. Kari were a little lower, he'd see better. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u279	And the reply, now, Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u280	Thank you, Mr President! Minister! Transport policy is under the sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and transport safety under the sector of the Ministry of the Interior. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I have long followed this section of traffic control from the tip of the Administrative Committee. Traffic flow is also a safety issue, at least when it comes to vehicle traffic. On the vehicle side, traffic regulation, traffic control is one part of the management of road safety. Of course, it is also one part, at least one part of this government seems to be dealing with the state's treasury deficit. One tool has now been harnessed to do so by the tin police, which have a record number. After the previous government, this line was started, and this government has continued this line. I would like to ask how you see this as a minister: should we look at this part of transport policy and traffic control together with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Transport and Communications?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u281	Mr President! Minister! Also Kainuu thanks for today's decision to buy trains. It was an important decision. I have to say that EUR 2 million today appears to be a considerable source of purchasing traffic, but Mrs Rantakangas raised the issue of balanced development of the country. Balanced development requires, of course, rapid transport infrastructure. One example of this is the development of growth centres in the rest of the country. One of the prerequisites for their development has been the rapid transport infrastructure. The development of Eastern Finland also requires significantly faster transport infrastructure, significant investments in the development of the transport infrastructure in this region, the whole Eastern Finland region, within a short period of time. Minister, what ideas do you have for the development of this large-scale transport infrastructure in Eastern Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u282	Mr President! I would now move the eyes of this traffic debate to south-east Finland and the Saimaa Canal and its flanks. There is a project on the renewal of the closure gates on the Saimaa Canal, and it has been found that there would also be a need to extend the closure tanks of the Saimaa Canal, but this extension has not yet been authorised or a decision taken to implement it. I would also like to ask the Minister: would it be possible to combine these two development or repair projects so that the catch time of the Saimaa Canal during the sailing season would be as short as possible when two such maintenance measures were taken at one time? Still, now that I'm out of the Saimaa Canal, let's move to the highway, the Saimaa Canal service road. Last week the Russian Ministry of Transport banned buses from Vyborg to the Nuijamaa border station, both directions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u283	Mr President! There have been considerable corrections to road safety during this term of government, as has been said here in many speeches. Thank you for that. But during the winter speed limit period, I saw a 50-mile-an-hour limit on flexible traffic. The wheels run society, but during winter restrictions, people are blocked when driving at speeds of less than 80 km due to an instrument error. This leads to considerable safety risks as trucks pass slower. Minister, are there any new ideas about this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u284	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks for the Kirri-Tikkakoski funding once again. In that section of transport, I said that we should have the principle that when we acquire a certain wealth on a given day, when we hand it over to the next one, it should be at least as good as it is. You, Mr Berner, should be congratulated on the fact that, in the field of transport, correction funding may now be able to achieve this objective. This is the goal of a good master. Winter maintenance is currently the problem where feedback comes from in the province, and that is what was already asked about, but I would really ask that solutions be sought. And I will continue to support what we saw in the section and what Mr Ala-Nissilä raised — this funding, the financing model for large projects. At least we personally support it and our group strongly supports it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u285	Mr President! I too agree with these thanks. This is probably one of the few areas of government where the opposition also experiences many moments of joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u288	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for moving forward with the debt relief projects, it has been very exemplary, but, as we have heard, there will continue to be a lot of work to be done there. A week ago, the Finnish Trucks Association expressed its concern about the maintenance of a lower-level road network. It is beginning to be a constraint for both wood and agricultural transport and even for school rides. In other words, it would be important to improve these classifications. And, of course, this exceptional winter has been an obstacle to the improvement of many roads this year. Mr President! Low-traffic railways are one of the target groups in our country, and they also have a major impact on industrial production. I would like to ask you now that there are threats that are being voiced that low traffic lines will be closed down, and then, Minister, what kind of view do you have?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u289	Mr President! The Government has taken on the opportunities offered by digitalisation for the future. It is therefore particularly regrettable that the condition of a digitalising society, sufficient cybersecurity, has been sub-budgeted. This is what the representative of the plant made a very good speech in this debate. We also drew attention to this fact as a committee as a whole, and I really hope that the government will be able to react in some way in the future. I would like to point out that the other half of this opportunity, in contrast to this digitalisation, is how we are able to take into account in the decision-making process those groups of people who are not prepared for this development. We have those, especially in the elderly and in special groups, who are unable to buy, do not want to buy and are not able to manage their basics solely through the possibilities of digitalisation, and this face-to-face service is still needed. I believe that this is a problem on which politicians talk too little, and we also need to take policy action on this issue. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u290	Mr President! As chairman of the committee I sign that that the committee has considered a lot of such accessibility issues that the services are available to everyone. As chairman of the committee, I also underline the fact that during the hearing we found out what the need for funding and the situation of FICORA are and I hope that there will be additional money for this in the future in addition to what has now been allocated. As a fire officer, and why not also as chairman of the committee, I would like to thank you instead for this level crossing money. Security projects, such small details and precision projects — whether it is a junction, where two roads meet, or a junction, where the road and railway meet — need to be done more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u291	Mr President! I would have liked to ask the Minister: has the Ministry considered how to invest in rail transport under the PPP model, in which case business and municipalities would be the financiers of investment and then, in the future, this reimbursement would take place through lower rail charges? In this case, only maintenance costs would be borne by the State and thus would not be the same investment as on the roads, but it would be possible to do so in such a way that PPP funding would not make a debt to the State, but would be paid in the form of a reduction in rail transport charges, which would allow investments to be made. Secondly, as regards heavy goods transport, could LNG be the instrument by which we open up that possibility?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u292	Mr President! If we go back to these investments when Mr Paatero pointed out that the high share of Kymenlaakso is explained by them, then I understood why it is high, but I think it is very good. I read it so that it is quite right that: The E18 has been made as fine a motorway as it has been made, and thanks to the first and second governments of Vanhanen. It cost more than 2 billion, so that, of course, it can be seen in the share. The same thanks I give to Kirri-Tikkakoski not to make a nervous three-band solution that runs, but to build 14 kilometres of four-band, because that is a prerequisite for driving in the future in a row, and perhaps when intelligent traffic goes there, we must not build a three-band, a nervous solution. But one such thing for this funding: that is why we need to look for new funding, because we are likely to have to build intelligence along the road, even for the present roads. It costs a lot, and comes with double the need to finance, to build intelligence and to build a new infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u293	Mr President! Infra’s repair debt is constantly incurred on land, at sea, and in air, now also in space, as old satellites grow old there. But if we think about what the level of its correction debt should be every year, then — you will correct, Minister — it should probably be at a loss of EUR 300 million and should therefore continue to be at an annual level from now on. I'm sure this is the will mode we're all looking for. But the capacity for new investment is necessary because our competitiveness is largely on the shoulders of international trade. For example, large projects — ice-sea links or the Tallinn tunnel or other major railway projects — do not once fit into the structure of existing budgets as an item of expenditure, but must have an extra-budgetary financing model which would also involve international funding and extra-budgetary funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u294	At this stage, I will give the floor to the representatives of Krista Kiuru, Plant, Pakkanen and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs to speak briefly and then continue this debate for less than half an hour. — Now, Mr Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u295	Mr President! Transport policy should be stable and it would not be much of a tempo. The expression of the will of the parliamentary working party during the last parliamentary term was based on the fact that the debt of correction is being broken. In this regard, it is a good thing that, in this case, the government has taken the work seriously. Of course, the scale has not yet been sufficient. But this bill will then be paid on the side of new projects, and we all recognise here that there is too little money for new projects. Unfortunately, there is no good impression of the government either that new projects were suddenly added to this budget process. Then, Minister, in January of this year you yourself proposed to set up a rather significant company for the whole of transport, and the traffic management tasks are now being incorporated. Is the question different or the same?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u296	Mr President! Digitalisation is known to revolutionise traffic in particular. Even though fully automatic cars, trucks and ships do not arrive until about ten years from now, roads and passages to them are already being built. New vehicles are already increasingly communicating online with transport infrastructure, for example. Indeed, telecommunications is becoming an increasingly important part of transport and transport infrastructure. In a way, the circle closes. Telecommunications started to develop precisely in relation to the needs of rail transport, which is precisely why communication is still in the same ministry and in the same committee as transport. However, this development requires the development of transport infrastructure and telecommunications capacity and digital services. That is why I hope and trust that, when new bus projects and routes are being refurbished, telecommunications will also be remembered, because for future traffic, the optical fibre and 5G networks are at least as important as asphalt and rail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u297	And the reply, Mr Pakkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u298	Mr President! The weekend in Helsingin Sanomat was indeed an article about these major investments in south-eastern and eastern Finland. It should be borne in mind that this is the completion of the Turku-Vaalimaa motorway. That motorway has now been built in Finland for about 30 years and is about to be completed in the next year, when Hamina—Vaalimaa, the last stage, will be completed in the motorway phase. I would like to ask whether it might now be possible to determine the total price of this Turku-Vaalimaa motorway, how much it has actually cost the state with the current system. Then we could consider this future Infra Oy, or whatever it was, whether it would have been cheaper to make this one motorway from Turku to Vaalimaa with another financial system. We already know that the site has been interrupted many times, that it has always called for a new decision here in the house and that another 10 or 20 kilometres have been taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u299	And now for the minister 3 minutes and then at the end of the day the minister has at least 5 minutes, so you can divide the time available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u300	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join those who have said here that the Cyber Security Centre is under-resourced. I believe, and we have argued, that its basic annual resource should be EUR 5 million per year. We now have two, and I thank you for the support that we should have more resources for this. In the case of HCT trucks, permanent legislation is coming in the spring and the experiment that has now been under way will then be concluded. Now we have an evaluation and new legislation is on the way. To this issue of climate change and emission reduction: Yes, there is cooperation with other ministries, in particular the Ministry of the Environment, Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and efforts are being made to assess how to achieve diverse production solutions for renewable energies, raise demand and supply and develop this part of the economy more jointly. Similarly, as far as the parliamentary group is concerned, we have now decided that the electricity charging infrastructure will receive a certain amount of support. It is certainly still small, but it is now mobilising infrastructure investments. Mr Kari, I have already reached a conclusion from the last debate in this Chamber, and we will meet with Minister Risiko this week, and one of the issues is how we can really work more together between traffic control and transport policy. As far as Eastern Finland is concerned, it is true that when you look at the map, many of our growth areas, including people and the economy and so on, have been focused on the main track, but we also see that there are huge needs for speeding up the Savo and Karelian tracks and thus increasing the working areas just as much as in connection with the main track. That is what we are currently assessing and seeing how these can be done and how these investments can be financed and amortised over time. For the Saimaa Canal: Yes, we will assess and examine how we can keep the catch time as short as possible. In closing the service road and combating bus traffic in this connection, genuine challenges have been identified, and we have also transmitted these messages to the Russian Ministry of Transport. I hope that I will have telephone time with the Russian Minister of Transport either tomorrow or Thursday. With regard to speed limits: the road operator decides on speeds, and perhaps the best way, Mr Mölsä, is that we can keep the roads in the best possible condition, so that the road keeper dares to raise the limit. We do not regulate that speed, but it is the road manager's own whole. And to the rest of it, I'll take the next one. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u301	Mr President! I will continue with these new transport projects and, as we know, they are, in many respects, the engines of our economy. When a transport project is decided to start, it will generally lead to other investments in a slightly wider area. That is why it would be a good thing for more transport projects to be carried out in Finland now in cooperation, for example on these contractual bases — as we have these MAL agreements in place with larger urban centres, which are capable of linking these land-use objectives, housing construction and also these transport projects — and that this practice should be extended and made possible in it, too. This practice may also be able to apply for a few different types of funding than we have had in the past, so that we can also launch these new projects in the future, because to a large extent, if you think about economic growth and how it can be boosted, these are precisely the most important means to achieve more housing construction and to expand employment areas and to achieve a little better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u302	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a lively approach to the transport sector. My question relates mainly to these private roads. Finland is estimated to have a private road repair debt of EUR 500 million. In the draft budget for next year, EUR 13 million has been earmarked for private road grants, of which EUR 10 million is additional funding under the debt correction programme, and when this funding ends, the allocation for this purpose will be reduced to EUR 3 million. Is it realistic, according to the Minister, that the reform of the Private Road Act will provide a sustainable basis for the financing of private roads? However, the proper use of private roads is very important for rural activities, bioeconomy and rural activities, among other things. A well-functioning road network is also a basic requirement for wood production and wood procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u303	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank the Minister. The Ministry of Transport and Communications must represent the bravest and most open-minded thinking that can be found in the ministries, and the same attitude would like to be taken up by others. There is a parliamentary group on business support, and one subject that receives a lot of subsidies in Finland is maritime transport. Maritime transport receives crew support. It is exempt from VAT and excise duties. That's where they pay the seamen's pension fund. There are investment subsidies and environmental investment subsidies, a reduction in maritime labour income, fuel tax subsidies, tax-free staff supplies, halves of fairway charges, shipbuilding aid and tonnage tax. Maritime transport is full of subsidies and is largely justified by security of supply. The question really is whether this is the most effective way of ensuring security of supply. I would also like to stress that, at the moment, despite these subsidies, for example, there are no obligations in the flag, but that ships can be flagged to other countries if this is what is best for them. When the euro is scarce, we need to think about how to use it as efficiently as possible, and there might be one possibility here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u304	Mr President! It is good to move from that maritime transport to ports. The ports of Oulu and Kokkola have received their money during this parliamentary term, and that is a good thing. There's still an acute shortage on that backwater curve. It's Ajas and Kemi's harbor. It's our biggest port of export. 7 per cent Finnish exports go that way. It would have to be deepened from 10 to 12 meters. They're transporting mine minerals. It's a transport route. Then we have hopes that we will have this Kemi biodiesel plant, which will serve as a transport route for raw materials. Then, on the other hand, if these flows of goods go to Oulu, this growing truck traffic will lead to further congestion between highway 4 Kemi-Oulu. It would further burden both the national economy and the environment and undermine the safety of the road network. Lapland needs its own port, and all the facts are in favour of developing this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u305	Mr President! As has been said here, transport investment is important both for regional development and business and for housing. They have always been important, but today they are more important than ever. That is absolutely clear, and that is why it is important that we, together here, find solutions that can invest in the transport infrastructure. I think that important growth corridors are those that take account of growth centres, regional cities and so on. Here in southern Finland, the Turku-Tampere-Helsinki triangle is one of the locomotives of the country. I myself have often spoken of the Turku-Tampere, which is part of this growth triangle. There is a freeway at both ends, but there is no proper road connection in the middle: there are no fences, and the road is narrow. Important renovation investments are now being made, but it, together with the Toijala line, would make it possible for this Southern Finland Triangle to be fully operational. And now the Ely Center has been playing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u306	Värderade Herr Talman! Ledamot Vartia tog upp sjöfartspolitiken. Finlands sjöfartspolitik följer EU:s stated guidelines och är snarlik den politiken som Danmark, Norge och Sverige har med tonnageskatt och netlönesystem. De rau systemen är en hel förutsättning för att vi ska kunna kkonkurrera under finländsk flagg. Utan de raus systemen skulle vi inte ha någon sjöfart överhuvudtaget under finländsk flagg. För tilfället har vi ungefär 6200 finländska sjömän anställda omodor, men utan de raus stödsystemen skulle utflagningar genast ske både till Estland och till Sverige. Då skulle inga pengar komma in i de raus stödsystemen, för de fungerar så att rederierna enbart får tillbaka de sociala avgifterna man har betalat in för sina sjömän. Betalas ingenting in kommer inging tillbaka i stöd, och då har vi Heller inte sjöfart under finsk flagg, vilket skulle vara dåligt för vår försörjningsberedskap
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u307	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here today about the state of the roads. They are what they are, but we still have a section of the road in such good condition that there is a speed limit of 100 or even 120. There has now been a lot of feedback and I have also noted that heavy traffic by-passes on these roads are going to be a lot of dangerous situations. It is known that there are schedule problems in heavy traffic, that there are tight schedules and that we should get past another heavy-duty vehicle, but that is not happening — you cannot accelerate very quickly. There's gonna be a lot of danger. There are quick brakes when cars come from behind hard on motorways and busy sections of the road. Has there been any thought of improving road safety? Germany has probably had heavy traffic ban areas on busy sections, on the hill and on this point that there will be no danger. Have we thought of such things here, thought about safety?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u308	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister in particular for highlighting Finland's international role and for the fact that Finland has appeared as a white area in the so-called TEN-T funding for a long time. If we are thinking of the Mediterranean Corridor, the Baltic Corridor, the Eurasian connections, the North-East Passage, the north-east cable, then the problem is common, the challenge is common. If we now think about Finland's role in the future as a whole, you can say that Finland is in the middle of all these connections. We have now received new openings through Russia to China. In January, the Central Asia Group will be in Astana to discuss new openings. But I would have asked you how Nordic cooperation works when we hear, however, that Sweden, for example, would not support us with TEN-T funding in Brussels. However, the Swedes, if any, are the ones we deal with most. So what is the reason for this lack of common Nordic vision?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u309	I can see that Mrs Torniainen wants an answer to this very point. - You have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u310	Mr President! In fact, it is a follow-up question to Mr Skinner's question: We in Finland talk a great deal about these TEN-T funding and projects, but in practice, the money we receive from the EU for the implementation of projects is absolutely non-existent. Mostly they come in the design. How do you actually see, Minister, how we can get funding from the EU specifically for large projects? At the moment, it's very nonexistent. These road projects and large bus projects, railway projects in Finland would certainly need to be mobilised in the north-south direction, in the east-west direction and also in the direction of Russia. And here, of course, is one project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u311	Let's just stay right here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u312	Mr President! It was a good thing that maritime transport came up in this debate. I would have asked the Minister about that. We know that there is a desire to promote port projects throughout Finland. In that Satakunta, industry is, as I said before, the second largest in regional exports. We have a deep port there, which is the most ice-free port in Finland. The 100-year-old industry pays 1.7 times as bus fares for all other ports. When will the Finnish Transport Agency or the Ministry begin to consider the fact that, for the various export industries, there is an equal level of infrastructure charges for industry, so that the export industries are placed on an equal footing? It cannot be right for a 100-year-old industry, and the export industry in particular, to have to pay more with its own fairway charges than others on average.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u313	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Berner for his valuable work on the Finnish road network. Indeed, the debt of correction has been handled well. It's a good idea to continue along the same lines. You have just mentioned the Karelian track in your speech, and now there is quite a lot of opinion that it would end somewhere on Imatra's height. We have worked hard to get the Imatra—Chinese eight level crossings out of it and then the Kitee—Joensuu three level crossings out of it, so that it would be a high-speed line. Perhaps a couple of tracks will have to be straightened out, but the whole Karelian track would still be able to get a quick ride between Joensuu and Helsinki. In this context, Minister, I very much hope that the wish of the North Karelian Regional Union will be taken seriously. The second point is this promotion of the bioeconomy. In this country, it has moved very well. I really hope that there will continue to be strong investment in the management of the lower road network. This issue has been raised with you on many occasions. I hope that these projects will move forward, because every single shot that leaves the forest always goes on a rubber wheel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u314	Mr. Speaker! I, too, would ask about the situation in the Saimaa Canal. Because there — and I have not checked the situation for a week now — until a week ago there was a situation in which: The Finnish Transport Agency had not yet provided funding for next year's services. That is the problem, because there would be work there, but we cannot even open up the competition yet. I would like to ask if the Minister is aware of this. Similarly, the use of the restitution debt in connection with those closures: the question is whether it would be possible to split up that big project in such a way as to be better able to compete with local companies for this work. I too would like to thank you for the EUR 2 million that we received today for purchasing services in respect of rail transport. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that you have completed the projects that we started in the last period, even though we see that there is a correction debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u315	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as our accounts are correct, this debate has all received a reply, except for Mr Heikki, to whom I have reserved the following reply, and Mr Haka, who has just come to the Chamber after being away from here for a long time. These are the speeches that have been made and then the President of the Chamber, Mr Estilä, has the floor for a reply. After that, the minister will be left with that for five minutes. — Now for the reply, Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u316	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to add my thanks for today's news that Kajaani and Upper Savo will be better able to reach business and people from March onwards. Thank you very much for this purchase agreement with VR. But my real question is about broadband construction, which has been here in less debate. In fact, my concern, which I want to convey to the Minister, is that the citizens do not quite understand that, now that we have been building broadband as a will to get broadband everywhere by now, they are opening up roads, putting electric lines in it, but they are saying that it is not sensible to put broadband in that same hole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u317	And before the section president, I would like to give a reply to the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u318	Mr President! We've been asking for money for our own provinces. I agree with this choir. Mrs Myllykoski has raised these projects, and I hope that the Minister will have some time to familiarise himself with these projects. Almost half of the representatives of the Satakunta are present in the debate. But of these renewable energies, electricity, etc.: Biogas is something that is between many ministries, it is both a matter for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment. Is there now a consensus on the diversity, benefits, overall benefits of gas, for example in terms of self-sufficiency, energy and fertiliser?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u319	Mr President! It has been nice to listen to this debate because, if my interpretation is correct, the majority clearly see the importance of raising this general level of funding. The current budget makes it difficult to develop and maintain even the former assets. The second thing that has come up here is this long-term planning, which the Minister has raised here, for 12 years. It is important for the industry to know what it is worth investing in and where and what the state intends to do then to the infrastructure, which is one of the most important competitiveness factors for companies. But, Minister, I would like to ask a question of this kind, perhaps trivial, which is not, however, a trivial question for the company that has been targeted. It was that within two days two trucks went into a ditch on a forest road because no one was able to pull snow out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u320	And Minister — if it condensed for 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u321	Mr President! Last time, I was left with how we assessed digital readiness in different population groups. This is what we have been looking at in the accessibility programme of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when we create new digital services that genuinely support our efficiency and access to services, this does not mean that we exclude existing service systems, but the question is that we will be able to provide more services, especially in areas that are difficult to reach, but it also means that we usually have existing services alongside us. Mr Myllykoski, you asked about how we have thought about rail investments and whether we can think about PPP models. These are the issues that the parliamentary working group now has to consider: what are the different financial means and models that can be considered. As far as LNG and heavy transport are concerned, it is important that we can develop it and that it is a genuine alternative, and I hope that it will make it possible to exploit this diversity of gas, and that there will be cooperation between ministries. The Ministry is currently preparing a policy decision and strategy on digital infrastructure. It seeks to see how we can be more obliged to build together, what Mr Heikkinen raised, but also to see how we can ensure that digital services are truly realised. In addition, Mr Pakkanen presented the question of whether the projects were to be evaluated ex post. This has not been done, but we are now doing and trying to assess how our investments have come about and how de facto money has actually gone into them over the years. Hopefully this will also provide us with more information and lessons for future decisions. As far as the private sector is concerned, we need more funding for the repair debt so that we can find a sustainable basis for the private roads. This is one part of this whole which is now being considered by Parliament. Mr Vartia, you raised the issue of maritime transport and related support schemes. There is a large whole, and the discussions I myself have had with the shipping companies have been very open. Here we seek and are prepared to seek different solutions, for example through the net wage system, which can then be done again in such a way that business subsidies would not be needed in the same way. Maritime transport is important to us. We have the vast majority of our imports and exports by sea, and we are very dependent on it in terms of competitiveness, but it is also clear that time is evolving, and there is also agreement with Sweden on the need for new models and new systems. For the same reason, ports are very important to us, and I am pleased that we are now able to deepen three ports, Oulu, Kokkola and Vuosaarta, but I am equally aware that this programme must be continued. We still have key ports, such as the port of Pori in Satakunta, or the ports of Tornio, Kemi, which also require measures. A ban on heavy traffic is something I take with me and find out how it is about it. Congressman Skinner, you brought up the TEN-T network. It is true that cooperation in the Nordic countries has not been as good as I would have liked it to be. Perhaps it is because in Finland our main resources and needs are north of Helsinki, when Sweden seems to be all south of Stockholm. Perhaps our needs and perspectives have been different, but that does not mean that we can now give up on this, but work is being done to ensure that the TEN-T network in Finland extends across the whole country and, therefore, from a European perspective, covers our country as a whole. The debt to repair the locks will be passed on and I will see how it can be implemented in such a way that the Saimaa Canal will be open as long as possible. And lastly, I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u322	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u323	The general debate on section 31 of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u324	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Mr Berner for his ambitious work on the reform of transport throughout this parliamentary term and also for the projects that are still under way. They have also broadly supported the urban-rural debate in such a way that projects have taken into account these interfaces between urban and rural areas in a significant way, both in terms of economic activity and entrepreneurship and in terms of housing efficiency. As such a representative of Parliament in Pirkanmaa, of course, I must admit that last weekend, with a little disapproval, I looked at the paper, when we were evaluating the euro volumes of transport projects in the various provinces and the Pirkanmaa region is a little behind, but we still have the parliamentary term and these projects. We must hope that we will also get more to Pirkanmaa. Of course, this purchase agreement decision, which was made public today, is now also having a major impact on the urban, labour, livelihoods, the mobility of people in general and the accessibility of cultural provision. And it is with joy that even the Pirkanmaa rail kilometres will be received, which will then also be able to increase traffic between Pori and Tampere. It's the right thing to do, the right thing to do, the right thing to do, it's actually getting people to move around with a fast train connection, all the way to the capital.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u325	Mr President! We need a boost to the transition in transport, and the government can be grateful for some of the good proposals it has made to steer transport towards a sustainable career. However, the Greens feel that even greater ambition is needed, and the proposals are not yet sufficient to meet the emission reduction targets set for transport. There is still too little support for public transport and too much support for private cars. On the other hand, too much emphasis is placed on liquid biofuels and too few electric cars. That is why we want to encourage the government to take an even more ambitious leap towards a sustainable time of movement. Biofuels should be saved primarily for heavy traffic, air and shipping where there are no alternatives, and the electrification of passenger transport will be accelerated much faster than planned. We should therefore exempt electric cars from the car and vehicle tax for a five-year period, so that the car fleet can be replaced more quickly, while at the same time expanding the charging network to encourage people to buy electric cars. We also want to shift traffic from roads to rail, which requires improvements in the rail network and investments in rail transport. Promoting rail transport is one of the most important measures in the transport sector to curb climate change. Rapid and undisturbed connections between cities should be built and investments in the development of local rail transport in large urban areas should be made. Building additional tracks between Helsinki and Tampere is one of the most urgent issues, as the main railway line between Tampere and Helsinki is a very central part of the Finnish railway network and the railway section connects north, central and western Finland to the capital region. The Government will provide additional funding for the development of sustainable forms of mobility in large urban areas, which is very welcome, but a similar type of development money is also needed by medium-sized cities whose population and urban structure do not allow heavy public transport solutions but where it is possible to develop transport through digitalisation, the development of services and the promotion of light transport. For the purchase of public transport services: The news today about the purchase of train services is very welcome, and thank you for that, but it would be good if we could have a long-term view of these. After all, now these purchases are made for a year at a time and in these tracks, even though in North Karelia between Joensuu and Nurmes, each year they are tense as to whether the purchases continue and work to ensure that this happens. It is good that we have purchased that section of the track again, but unfortunately they will only be in force until the end of next year and there is no information on what will happen next. It would therefore be extremely important for these to be sustained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u326	Mr President! Many good and good projects have been made forward this period, thanks to the Government and Minister Berner. Unfortunately, however, the situation is that both the repair debt and the investment debt had already been created to such an extent that it is difficult to deal with it in one period. The correction debt has already been patched up in several budgets, large investments have been mobilised, and that is a good thing. But we still have an innumerable number of smaller, important investments that have not progressed. One example of such a small but important investment is the First Road game fence, which is still partially missing from Kirkkonummi and Vihti. So the fence has not been built when the motorway was built. It has also not been built in this respect, when the road has been renovated and its safety has been improved, for example, by building game fences. Now the situation is that the road from Palojärvi to Turku is the second most dangerous in Finland as measured by deer and deer colliders. Thank you to the Minister for taking up this issue too, but the world has changed for decades now so that it is no longer possible to do that. So construction is not even a matter of funding, but of ensuring that animals are able to move naturally from one area to another, i.e. from one pasture to another. Now a report has been commissioned on the possibility of natural movement, which makes it impossible to build a game fence without the construction of specific game bridges between them for the safe crossing of the road for cloven-hoofed animals. In fact, those game bridges raise the cost of the planned game fence to a million-dollar level so that the fence has not yet been accommodated on the Ely Centre's investment lists. In other words, in addition to the game fence, a larger investment is now required in that area to enable the free passage of elk. So ask him if he's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u327	Mr President! We must thank the Minister for Transport, Anne Berner, for her very proactive approach and active approach in the overall reflection on the way in which our mobility and our tax funding will be resolved and the way in which investment funding will be resolved in the future, such as car tax movements and other things that have been done during the year, and hopefully we will also be able to get to these new financing models, where business and the state together then, in some future, will make major projects with similar base funding. But the road repair debt, as mentioned above, is quite high, EUR 2.7 billion, and it is needed every year, if it is caught, to finance nearly 300 million repairs every year. In fact, the government has very well insisted that we have had around 900 million available on top of our standard funding, and this has been seen by the fact that these regions and elsewhere have been using asphalt machines well during the summer. I hope that this debt correction funding will also continue after 2019 and look beyond one parliamentary term on these projects. The Committee on Budgets had also taken a position on this in its own report that there should be at least 10 to 12 years in the run-up to the reduction in these debt corrections and other investments. We have important projects, as Mr Mikkonen has pointed out here, the way in which we start moving from Helsinki and how we achieve the provinces, and one direction is precisely in the direction of Tampere. As Tampere and Pirkanmaa's wish, we have many things that start on three. We want Third Road to be all right and we can get this third track in order, and then, in the previous point, we talked about Tampere 3, which is our university cooperation. So we have such a good acceleration gear on the top of Pirkanmaa, and we hope for funding especially for this third track, that we will have an hour's train connection from Helsinki to Tampere, and also vice versa, and there, the school trip and everything else, would be very quick. The need for ninetie is also evident from us, when we also go towards Jyväskylä, another strong growth centre. In view of these investments in the forest industry in Äänekoski and elsewhere, truck traffic and others have increased and this road is very crowded and dangerous at the moment. There have been many accidents in the summer. To this digitalisation: I like the Minister's approach to the way digitalisation and transport have been combined, but also to the fact that we have invested in and funded fibre networks in rural areas. I can see that fibre networks are as important as telephone networks were more than 100 years ago when the first ones were built in Finland. They bring to the countryside its contacts, business opportunities and contacts with the rest of the world, and it is possible to do telework and, among other things, to look at the wider world market. As far as rail transport is concerned, I would like to thank you for today's decision on the purchase of EUR 2 million, particularly between the Seinäjoki River and Vilppula. We're going to get a purchase service shift for it. But it has also been very important for VR that these passenger train services from Tampere to Mänttä-Vilppula have been carried out as an obligation. There the trains have been quite full. It is very important, precisely as regards the periphery of the provinces, how we link ourselves to these capitals of the provinces. One of our concerns is the way in which private roads will be financed in the future. At the moment we have EUR 13 million in private road funding, but there are about 10 million of this road renovation debt, that is, if it falls back to the level of 3 million, the los takes 2 million out of it and only one million remain on private roads. It is also very important that this funding is maintained. And a few words about the wider arc of the Nordic region: I see that this joint application for TEN-T funding from Europe is also a big deal. During this year we had to decide, or perhaps next year, where the railway network is headed for the Arctic Ocean. And one thing that is still important, which has not come to the fore, is regional airports and their activities at the Nordic level as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u328	Mr President! It is a pleasure to join in these thanks to Mr Berner. From the perspective of the fairways, next year will be a real super-year of funding, i.e. this will employ infrastructure entrepreneurs and improve Finland's competitiveness and road safety throughout Finland. Of course, from that point of view of Northern Finland, I look a little at what is coming for us there, and of course I am happy to note that decision already taken in the amending budget to deepen the corridors of the port of Oulu. Of course, this is a very important issue for the whole of Northern Finland. But now it is coming to an end for the long-term yapping about the construction of the Hailuoto bridge, that is, the municipality of Hailuoto and It has been decided to build a bridge between the City of Oulu, and this bridge will be implemented with a life cycle model. It will change the future of this small island community fairly now, so it will certainly become attractive both for those working in Oulu to live as well as for leisure time. But then we also have a lot of small projects in this budget. They are not small, they then always bring joy and security in their own region. Here I would like to mention the money for Liikanenvaarantie, which was an additional financial project. This Liikanenvaarantie, the road towards the Russian border to the park, is currently in the planning phase, i.e. there is a hearing on what is being said about these plans. For example, it has been a challenge for very rare plants near the park. It has now needed special attention in the process of drawing up plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u329	Mr President! That speech by the section came so quickly after the spawning speech that we still need to get back to the same subject. Here, Mr Pirttilatti also made a very good point about the repair programme for the road, which was specifically granted to the poor roads, the eternity project. That's incredibly important, and we're catching up with it now. But here is a concern that we should also see over the parliamentary term, budgeted for more than four years in order to actually secure the condition of the roads in the longer term. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to a point in this budget debate which, in Pirkanmaa, has at least been a cause of great concern to people in recent years and even this year. That is precisely what Mr Viljanen took from Vihti, a fence for deer and game, a fence for deer, whatever name they want to call it. Of course, our state game is a safety risk today in traffic. Even there in Pirkanmaa, on highway 12, and why not on highway 9 between Urjala and Tampere, they are a very significant security risk. It could be said that this year too has been almost catastrophic with accidents. There may even occur on highway 12 a few miles [12 km], as many accidents a week and even on the same day may not occur on one end. Of course, it must be remembered that it is also a question of the safety of the roader, and what can safeguard it is a fence of game. In this regard, I would therefore like to see this matter, in the light of road safety, promoted with Minister Berner during the course of next year, so that it can also be carried out during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u330	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, considerable efforts have been made to reduce the repair debt on the transport network, but unfortunately little attention has been paid to the development of the network. The development of the rail network would provide excellent opportunities for Finland to have a major railway hub in northern Europe and then improve the conditions for our business life. But safety is an essential part of the development of the network. Unfortunately, level crossing accidents are quite common in Finland. There have been unfortunate examples of them this autumn and there should be zero tolerance for them. It can be achieved by removing dangerous level crossings and marking places that are considered dangerous with proper safety devices. And in order to make the most of the network, the Government should draw up an infrastructure development programme and include the need to improve the capacity of important rail links, the renewal of safety equipment and the elimination of level crossings. Mr President! In this debate, the additional line raised by the representatives Mikkonen and Pirttilahti between Helsinki and Tampere should also be very much needed and supported for the future development of our country. It would improve the opportunities and benefits offered to the whole country by the Helsinki-Hämeenlinna—Tampere—Säinäjoki growth corridor and, in particular, business life in its territory, and I therefore encourage the government to take action in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u331	Mr President! First of all, I would like to raise the important issue raised by Mr Pirttila in his previous speech, namely these electronic connections and the related infrastructure. Indeed, today it is just as important a mode of transport in its own way, and that is how information passes, and that is why it is extremely important for us to be able to guarantee functional connections everywhere in the country, because it makes it possible for business to operate, it makes it possible to live, it makes it possible to bring services to everyone. That is why it is extremely important that we take care of it. It starts to be really this kind of every Finnish fundamental right that needs to be well connected, because more and more we also transfer services through it to work. Then I want to take over from this train traffic. Although it is wonderful that, for example, the Joensuu-Nurmes area now has this purchase traffic, the transversal rail connections in this country are in a terrible, absolutely shameful situation and have been weakened. Even during this government, this cross-link from Joensuu to Jyväskylä has been substantially weakened in the direction of Tampere. When you think of Joensuu as a major study city, the connections to Tampere, Jyväskylä and Oulu are really significant. It is truly regrettable that, for example, this Joensuu-Storage connection is not included in this purchase traffic, although it is also mentioned here that it is precisely in terms of work and study trips that we have wanted to increase these purchases. The Joensuu-Frozen contacts take only one shift every day in their direction, and that is far too little.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u332	Mr President! The planning of an hour train, i.e. the planning of a fast train connection from Helsinki to Turku, will continue next year, which is a great thing. The planning of a fast connection has already increased economic activity along its future route very significantly. And now that the economy is on the move, let's hope that the hour train can be realized with a faster schedule than planned. In fact, the first stage, i.e. the extension of the urban track to the west from Espoo, could be started very quickly — plans and plans already exist for this section. Mr President! It is also appropriate to hope that the urban railway for commuter traffic will be built at least at the same speed as the actual high-speed train connection. In this way we would also avoid the constant twist of the high-speed train stations and would already be able to develop the entire area along the rail line, such as the Western New World, its urban structure and infra, on a fast schedule when the first stages of the train take place. In such a case, planning and development would not be limited to one or two planned high-speed train lines, but development and positive energy would radiate to a wider area along the entire planned line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u333	Mr President! Mr Savio raised a very important issue, these level crossings, and here, fortunately, is a small sum now. The Committee on Finance proposes that EUR 2 million should be allocated to improving level crossings, but when we still have more than 2,000 of these items, we really should have a long-term programme to either get those who are on the level crossings or get them removed from the warning devices. These problematic level crossings are precisely along these quiet passenger train routes, for example in our home region of Pirkanmaa, Tampere-Haapamäki, where there have been several accidents between these two routes. In this big picture of this low-emission share of transport, we have the goal of the government and our programme, with all the domestic energy programme, to have 250,000 electric cars and 60,000 gas cars by 2030. I am delighted to see that some progress is being made towards this objective and that funding is now being made available to promote low-emission transport, especially now for the conversion of gas and ethanol cars. Then there is also this building of electric charging points all over Finland. These gas companies are also making these refuelling stations with their own funding. I very much hope that these low-emission cars will be reached on a faster schedule and on a larger scale, such as in neighbouring countries. And as far as this Nordic pattern is concerned, I would see what the Prime Minister has to say. Sipilä has also suggested that we should also have common Nordic distribution obligations, for example, it would be the same ratio to mix this ethanol with petrol,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u334	Presentation of the section on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Finance. — First, the President of the Chamber, Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u335	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the section, thank you for your work, and the Minister for good cooperation, too, when we went through this work. The budget was discussed by the Section for Local Government and Health with regard to chapter 28.90 on the finances of the Ministry of Finance. Central government grants to municipalities and joint municipal authorities amount to EUR 10.6 billion next year. The central government share of basic services is EUR 8.6 billion and the imputed central government shares of the Ministry of Education and Culture are EUR 933 million, while the central government subsidies of other administrative sectors are EUR 1.2 billion. The central government share of basic services is EUR 21 million less than in the actual budget of the current year. There will be no index increase. The central government share is increased by compensation for lower early childhood education fees and the number of students covered by student care. This will be reduced by, for example, a competitiveness pact, a reduction in administrative tasks related to the payment of basic income and the improvement of regional specialised medical care. Based on the revised findings for 2015, the supplementary draft budget corrected the distribution of costs between central government and municipalities in favour of municipalities by EUR 119 million. Thereafter, next year’s budget as a whole will weaken the local government finances by around EUR 70 million. This is contrary to the objective of the Government Programme and differs from the previous two budgets. The reduction in customer fees for early childhood education was to be compensated for for EUR 25 million for municipalities by raising the lower limit for real estate tax. This didn't happen. The Committee considers it important that the adequacy of compensation be clarified and, where appropriate, taken into account in the spring budgetary plan. Mr President! The condition of local government finances was quite good last year. The combined annual margin was EUR 3.4 billion, which is over EUR 700 million more than in the previous year. There were many reasons for this, including the municipal measures and the Kikiy agreement. The loan stock of municipalities continued to grow but slowed down. Investments in basic municipalities decreased, but investments in joint municipal authorities increased by over EUR 90 million. The local government finances will be further strengthened this year. The combined result and financial position of local government finances are becoming even record strong. The budgetary position target set in the budgetary plan, i.e. local government net lending, shall not exceed minus 0.5% of GDP in 2019. This seems to be happening. However, the Committee draws attention, among other things, to the expenditure pressures arising from the unemployment rate and age structure. In addition, there is a risk of diversity and differentiation in the municipal field. The result for the financial year was negative in every third municipality last year. The target of reducing municipalities' tasks by EUR 700 million by 2019 will not be achieved. Savings and revenue increases amount to only around EUR 220 million. The committee stresses the importance of preparing for regional and social reform. Municipalities should focus on promoting well-being, vitality, entrepreneurship and employment. The committee focused in particular on the serious problems of Savonlinna and similar municipalities losing their inhabitants. The end of teacher training in Savonlinna has a significant impact on the economy of the city and region. The committee stresses that the situation of empty rental houses requires specific measures, which have been proposed by a working group set up by the Ministry of the Environment. Mr President! Limited but sufficient funding will be allocated to the preparation of regional and social reform. The largest investment of EUR 180.5 million in the VM section will be allocated to support ict projects. The adequacy shall be monitored and evaluated for the following years. The Committee notes that the success of the social welfare reform depends essentially on the functioning of the information systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u336	Chairman of the Administrative and Security Section, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u337	Mr President! Section for Administration and Security on Taxation and Customs: Customs' operating expenditure is set at EUR 163 million, which is EUR 3 million more than in 2017. Of this, EUR 1 million is intended to be devoted to securing customs clearance and the protection of society. Appropriations submitted to the Committee by way of a report In the future, Customs will be able to stabilise the number of employees at the end of 2017. At that time it was about 1850 person-years. However, this is not sufficient at the same time for the necessary technological reform. The environment in which customs operates has changed. For example, online commerce has grown rapidly and new technologies are being used for illegal purposes. This also requires the authorities to be competent and to reform their operating models and control equipment. The committee considers it necessary to implement a programme for the development of customs control technology and, in particular, to automate the customs control of the postal line as quickly as possible in order to carry out a credible customs control of the growing online trade and about 40 million postal consignments. Customs' work is almost entirely to combat the shadow economy. Effective customs controls will increase tax revenue and the effectiveness of crime prevention. The committee adds EUR 1500000 to the item for the automation of customs control of the postal line. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u338	Mr President! First of all, thank you for your cooperation with the Section for Local Government and Health and the President in particular. In this speech, I raise quite a lot of the same issues as the President-in-Office. The Kankaanniemi spoke in his own speech. In its report, the Committee on Finance has well recognised the fact that the combined result of local government finances and the budgetary position for the current year are becoming record strong. Last year was record-breaking in terms of local government finances. The annual margin of municipalities rose to EUR 3.4 billion, which is the highest in the whole of this millennium. Municipalities have implemented varyingly the savings measures of EUR 700 million that the Government Programme allows. As the committee states, savings of approximately EUR 220 million will be generated by 2019, according to estimates made by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. However, it should be noted that local authorities have taken their own alternative adjustment measures at the same time. Many of you are the municipal decision-makers, and you know that your municipalities have also made responsible decisions on how to keep expenditure and income in good balance. The growth in operating expenditure of municipalities has been very moderate. In addition to adjustment measures, this has also been influenced by the Competitiveness Pact. In this speech by President Kankaanniemi, it was also pointed out that the supplementary budget proposal was quite significant in correcting these state subsidies for the benefit of the municipalities. I can say that when we made the budget proposal there at the end of August, we were all amazed, both at the level of the office and on the political side, at how it seemed that much too much state aid had been paid to the municipalities in 2015. That was almost EUR 180 million, but now, during this autumn, it became clear that there was a huge error and it was possible to correct it in this supplementary draft budget. In fact, this budget now under discussion looks a little better than what was the budget proposal at the beginning of the autumn for Parliament. However, the overall positive trend in the local government finances masks the fact that not all municipalities are still doing well. We must be aware of this, as Mr Kankaanniemi said. The process of separation is true. However, the strengthening of the economic and employment situation in Finland as a whole is also of enormous importance for local government finances. Fortunately, according to the regional development prospects of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the situation of business and business in almost all sub-regions is expected to improve and the number of unemployed people is reduced. This is a very important issue. In its report, the committee highlights the need to monitor the adequacy of compensation for early childhood education costs. The Government suggested that compensation would be partly through real estate taxation, but Parliament decided to keep the lower limit of real estate tax unchanged. However, the municipalities themselves still have the possibility to increase property tax if they consider it necessary. The fact that Savonlinna has been given a particular position in the report has also been mentioned here, and I have read them carefully. In this context, I would like to say that a couple of weeks ago the government stated that, in line with the proposal made by the City Counsellor Antti Rantakoto, we will be doing a separate regional town programme, and that work will hopefully be put on the foot already this week. Mr President! The year 2018 will be the year of preparation for the establishment of the provinces. The preparations are already well underway throughout the country until the coming summer. The legislation on reform is expected to enter into force in June 2018, after which the temporary statutory administrations of the provinces will begin. I share the committee's view that the resources for preparing for regional and social reform are sufficient to continue the preparation. The Ministry of Finance’s item is approximately EUR 180 million for the preparation and implementation of the reform. Of this, EUR 40 million has been earmarked for the preparatory work of the provinces and for the interim institutions and EUR 130 million for the preparation of the ict. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of buildings and buildings. The committee is right to say that the success of the regional and social reform is crucially dependent on the success of the information system projects and how they can achieve cost savings and improve the quality and availability of services. The legislation will therefore create a framework, but implementation will determine how more than 200,000 people will be able to operate in their new positions. With these words I would like to thank you again for this cooperation. Let's start talking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u339	I would now ask those representatives who wish to use the reply in this debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u340	Mr President! Savonlinna was also an example of a municipality or city where problems have been rapidly exacerbated by the abolition of this teacher training unit. There are rental dwellings that are emptying or emptying, and their fate is, of course, difficult and creates great difficulties for the city and the owners of rental dwellings. These are certainly found elsewhere, and in many small and more remote municipalities there are empty rental dwellings. In the view of the section and the committee, the Savonlinna case would therefore be very important indeed to clarify, and it would be important to look for solutions that will bring this situation forward and, at the same time, to take into account the fact that we have a lot of these municipalities where the situation is similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u341	Mr President! I also drew attention to this same housing situation in Savonlinna, where 500 apartments are left empty and wondering how expensive it is to demolish those houses, while we are experiencing a shortage of housing here in the capital region. I would have asked the Minister why these similar cases cannot be exploited by housing in houses such as Savonlinna's houses with people who are short of housing here, for example in Vantaa, let's say asylum seekers. When we do not find housing for those who come through Vantaa, why not be inhabited in such places? The second question is that, at the same time, when the local government finances are getting stronger, attention has been drawn to the fact that the forecast for local government finances remains difficult, because unemployment continues to be a structural problem in many places and the population is ageing, and at the same time the committee calls on municipalities to prepare carefully for regional and social reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u342	Mr President! Indeed, as the Minister has said, there is good reason to thank those municipal decision-makers for the way in which they have managed the finances of their municipalities and have been able to react, for example, to the local government policy of the last period. As you have said, the municipal level has been strongly unequaled, above all by the very strong cuts in the state's share of the last period, but also by the fact that the property tax was abolished from the system of compensation for state transfers and also the tax compensation system was changed quite substantially by political decisions. So the municipal court is unequal. The section has also assessed the overall condition of the municipal court. The question to the Minister, now that we are in the process of major regional and social reform: how do you estimate that these major reforms will affect this inequality of municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u343	Mr President! I am looking at the summary of the Federation of Local and Regional Authorities' central government shares from 2000 to 2017. It has been so often said here that, during the last term of government, there has been a particularly large reduction in state subsidies, and then, on the other hand, it has been said that this government has not cut at all. This study by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities — that is, this is a fact sheet and the Ministry of Finance — states that in 2017, the central government shares are, for a moment, EUR 5 billion, EUR 632 million, compared to 2015, when the previous government made the last budget, EUR 5 billion, EUR 953 million. Is this true now, Minister of Local Government, that in this parliamentary term, compared with the last year of the last parliamentary term, the central government shares have fallen by EUR 300 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u344	Mr President! I'm dealing with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities a lot. I do not have those figures here, but we all know what happened during the last parliamentary term. Read the book of Raimo Sailas, for example, about state contributions, he says in what happened. He wondered what was going on last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u347	Mr President! In 2012, when the previous government made its first budget, EUR 5.9 billion were central government shares. In 2013, central government shares amounted to EUR 6.1 billion, in 2014 central government shares were EUR 6.0 billion, in 2015 central government shares were EUR 5.9 billion, and this year central government shares were EUR 5.6 billion. These are the figures of the Ministry of Finance, of which the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has made such a table. The question is still: what is the basis for the argument that the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut during this parliamentary term? Central government cuts since 2015 amount to EUR 300 million — EUR 300 million, quite a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u348	Mr President! Minister Vehviläinen has, in a commendable way, taken up this worsening situation in the region. The state's jobs have been stopped there, the hospital issue is running low all the time, and we remember the fate of the district courts. After all, the report on the size of the beach is leading to the creation of this regional urban programme, to which the Minister referred just now. It gives a little promising prospects for a brisk 50-region town. Yes, in those areas, the issues of vocational training and transport accessibility are of the utmost importance. My question, Minister, is this: when regional cities are concerned with the simultaneous management of many things, how does the government intend to organise this cross-administrative approach in relation to the future of regional cities in order to ensure that no such bad decisions, decisions already seen, reduction decisions, closure decisions are taken by fire, by sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u349	Mr President! As a result of the informal economy and tax avoidance, EU countries are estimated to lose as much as 1000 billion a year, which is more than the combined health budgets of these countries. In Finland, the scope is about EUR 10 to 14 billion. This represents more than 5% of GDP, and I assume that there is a strong desire to intervene in this state administration, and the Greens have felt that it should be done more effectively than the government has done. If the right direction is to be taken, the resources for tax avoidance and the fight against financial crime must be secured. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you see whether they are now sufficiently secured? We have proposed that EUR 2 million be added to the budget to combat the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u350	Mr President! The social and regional reform will significantly change the role of municipalities. There are opportunities for every change, and one possibility from the point of view of municipalities is that social and health care costs are no longer on the shoulders of municipalities. When municipalities want to attract returnees, for example, from retired people, this desire has been very reserved until now. I understand that this situation is changing in a very central way. It is possible to attract the former residents of the municipality who have worked in the capital region, for example, back to the regions, because for the municipality these expenses are no longer relevant. I ask Minister Vehviläinen: is such a structural change possible from the point of view of municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u351	Mr President! The Minister of Local Government referred to this future in the case of regional reform that more than 200,000 workers will be transferred from the service of municipalities to the service of the provinces. What worries and interests us is how to ensure that these more than 200,000 employees continue to pay municipal pension insurance, so that municipalities do not then, if they move to other pension insurance policies, become so large pension contributions and pension contribution debts then to be taken care of for the rest of those workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u352	Mr President! Indeed, the municipalities have done good work and adapted their own economy, even by saving the primary school, according to the evaluation council. Index freezes in the form of central government cuts, kiky cuts and advance cuts, such as early childhood education, special medical care, morning and afternoon activities, family and family care, etc., are the real cuts that have not been realised by municipalities, even though it has been thought that they would do some good for the municipalities. This is not how these things can be taken forward by the municipalities. It was honest to me that the section president said that the state transfers are now being cut off and that they are even being carried out in violation of the government programme. That is probably the government's answer to its own voters if we go against the government programme. But it is good to say that our decision-makers will know in the future that it really is less than 300 million less now than at the end of the previous government term has come for it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u353	Mr President! It is true, however, that the previous government cumulatively cut the central government's shares by nearly EUR 7 billion and this year's cuts are largely due to the kiky agreement, which is concluded by the social partners, and it becomes this minus. Municipalities then had to adjust to the economy by cutting basic education, early childhood education, all municipal services, including social services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u356	Mr President! Indeed, the municipalities have done a good job, and for that they thank them very much. This regional report, which the Minister mentioned, is certainly very interesting. In my own hometown, where I was born, in Savonlinna, I visited, and yes, this end of teacher training there has almost made the city a ghost town. There the business stops and the apartments are emptying, and this is a good indication that in a way these things are done like office table decisions, where you do not really know the structure of the area, and allow it to happen. This was the decision of the University of Joensuu, but the fact that the government did not intervene will be fatal for this city. Now that the district court and the Chamber and all the related activities were taken away by the government, it may be that even all the legal, legal and other matters that are involved will be removed, only burial activities will remain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u357	At this stage in the debate, I will give the answers to the representatives of Kari, Hoskonen and Myllykoski, and then the minister will have three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u358	Mr President! The historic regional and social reform is still waiting for daylight. The head is already chopping, but things are still running out. There has been a lot of talk in this Chamber about the autonomy of municipalities, about 100 years in the Republic and 150 years ago on a wider scale in the Parliament. In the course of this government, a restriction law has had to be passed just because the municipalities are protected from themselves. I understand the pressure on the government which the Minister is under, but what do you think of this reform, as it were, on the journey? After all, we share many objectives among ourselves, and here at the government-opposition border quite widely: better services, better treatment, faster access to care and sooner catch of people. But if this legislative process has to be protected, as it were, by new legislation, how strong are we on the basis, especially when, as the Minister said, we also have a lot of disadvantaged municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u359	Mr President! The finances of the municipalities, indeed, have recently improved at a ferocious pace. As Mr Kankaanniemi said in his own speech, it was about EUR 400 million plus last year as an overall figure, that is to say, the question of development has been very positive. It's a good direction. I am a little surprised by these statements from the opposition. There is a desire to highlight the negative effects of the Competitiveness Pact and to make various claims in this context. The fact is, however, that the social partners have agreed and this has been a good result. The State has then compensated for these own decisions by sound tax decisions. So this background is done properly and that's all it takes. In his own speech, Mr Hautala described very well this relationship between the local government and the state of the last parliamentary term, and these figures are quite correct. I would have asked the Minister: how do you see the finances of the municipalities developing during the next parliamentary term, because that is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u360	And before the minister, Mr Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u361	Mr President! I shall now focus on Customs in my speech. The Audit Committee has already drawn attention to Customs' resources and stated that the focus should be on monitoring both the grey economy and the increasing flow of mail order sales. I am very pleased that the committee has reached an increase of EUR 1500000 for one investment which will enable the automation system to be brought into Customs' service. We have now been told on the Customs side that we have very dangerous substances that are being imported, that human contact is already life-threatening. We need this kind of new automation, and it is not a bad thing that when I made this amount of budget initiative that it is now happening. That's really great. The Parliament is awake. I would like to ask the Minister whether the increase in the resources made by the Committee on Audit and now by this committee will have the effect of allowing the government to take these into account when preparing the budget for the next period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u362	And Minister Vehviläinen. How about three minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u363	Mr President! Unfortunately, I have to say that I am not responsible for Customs. In the current division of labour, it is Minister Orpon, so that I am not going to do so now. But a few comments: First of all, there were a number of questions here about how this reform of the social welfare system will affect the inequality of municipalities. At least it does not add to the inequality when we all know that it is precisely because small municipalities, which do not have sufficient resources, also have the opportunity to secure social services there. This is particularly true for older, remote municipalities with low tax revenues. So this is a good thing in that direction. Then, Mr Rinne, I would like to say that anyone who knows the system of state subsidies in the municipalities knows that there are a lot of different items and those items move every year. There may be a place where there's a plus and somewhere where there's a minus. I don't mean to be mean, but even this year's government shares show the tails of the last government cuts. That's the way it is. It could go a long way. Everyone admits and knows that this government has made a huge adjustment of EUR 4 billion, but we have not made cuts in the central government's share of municipalities in the way that was done directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u366	Mr President! With reference to that table of figures from the Ministry of Finance, in 2012, central government shares increased by EUR 66 million compared to the previous year, in 2013 they increased by EUR 200 million compared to the previous year, in 2014 they decreased by EUR 100 million and in 2015 they decreased by EUR 100 million compared to the previous year. The starting point was EUR 5.83 billion and the final result was EUR 5.95 billion, which is EUR 100 million over these four years. These are absolute figures, state participations without compensation for tax losses. And now — is this, Minister Vehviläinen, true? — this year EUR 5,632 billion is the sum of central government contributions without any use of tax compensation. Mr Hautala, these are absolute figures from the figures of the Ministry of Finance so that I do not understand what figures you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u367	Mr President! The Association of Local and Regional Authorities, led by Mr Paatero here, notes that in 2012, the imputed central government share, the central government share of basic services decreased by EUR 631 million, in the following year by EUR 756 million, in 2014 by EUR 2 billion, and in 2015 the central government share of basic services at the annual level is approximately 1.5 billion. In other words, these figures are rather harsh, and I believe in the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, when it is stated that the local government finances have been stabilised during this parliamentary term and the capacity of municipalities has been restored in many ways. For next year's central government share cut: a significant proportion of this is due to a revision of the distribution of costs between the state and municipalities, i.e. once the costs have fallen, the central government share will also fall in legislative terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u368	Mr President! If you read this same chart as Mr Korhonen here, there are indeed these figures here, and cumulatively when you look, the 631, which was then 12 years ago, has been 1496 this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u371	Mr President! After Mr Myllykoski's speech, I made a reservation for a reply, but then Minister Vehviläinen said that this matter of Customs was not on his property. But that is what I am talking about when I have the floor. It is great that EUR 1500000 has been added to the automation of customs control in the postal line. According to both studies, 40 per cent of Finns buy online every month and the sum is EUR 5 billion. Online shopping is growing and increasing all the time, and online shops are expanding and becoming new, and yet there are some shady online shops that sell a shady product that is easy to add to it. That is why customs control is a very important part of it, and then it will be revised anyway. In view of the fact that ten packages per household are purchased in Finland per year and 30 packages already in the USA, and many of those Prime users already buy 70 packages per year, it will inevitably increase in Finland too, and young people will start buying more and more, and there will also be some vague products, which will not be accepted here in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u372	Mr President! I will return to this regional urban programme. First of all, thank you very much to Mr Vehviläinen and to the Government for having decided to implement this programme. This is indeed the background to this regional town survey by the City Councillor Rantako, and then the few regional city representatives. There has been a great deal of appeal to the government within the network, and thank you now that this is really moving forward. In that way, this question of the regional city is an essential issue, that these fifty cities form the industrial backbone of Finland. A significant part of Finland's foreign exports and industry is located in these regional centres, and in this way the development of the functionality and vitality of these localities is about the vitality of Finland as a whole. It is extremely good that it is now being carried forward with this programme, and it is good that this need for intersectoralism has also been identified here. In the previous debate, when we talked about education, some of us asked about this vocational training, specific training,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u373	Mr President! Yes, the municipal section has many times discussed whether or not the central government shares have been cut. It is great that when we make a third budget for next year during this term of government, we are still discussing here whether or not it has been cut. I can tell you that last year, after the debate, we were forced to find that the state's shares are being cut during this term of government. It is now known to the representatives of the government who still think that the state will not be cut. Then, Minister, when you have just given a powerful witness in that toilet that there is no cutting-off of state shares, that this government does not cut the state shares, I wonder how it can be that you have such an idea. I would like to ask once again: do you believe that there have been no index freezes during this term of government, that no kiky cuts have been made during this term of government, that there have been no new cuts in the state's share of the services after the basic benefits, when those index freezes did not come? Yes, all of this has been done during this reign, and for the first time in this decade there is less money spent than ever.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u374	Mr. Speaker! In fact, these Customs needs amounted to EUR 5.5 million. In its draft budget, Customs initially presented additional money for the development of control technology. There were truck scanning devices and so on, but the section considered and among the government parties it was considered that there was no chance of going into such extensive investment support for this time, but it was considered that this automation of the postal line was a measure that would have a significant impact on the challenges of increasing online commerce now, and that in practice is largely both the fight against the shadow economy and the fight against crime. But in the coming years more and more attention will then have to be paid to the acquisition of these translucent devices and the construction of a registration plate recognition system, because they will also be measures to combat the shadow economy and crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u375	Mr President! Minister, although this tax duty is not directly your territory, it is in this section 28. When the Minister of Finance is not here, it is probably a good idea to take up the role of the messenger if you cannot answer them. But still on this request for investment in Customs equipment: According to the committee's consultation, their need would have been EUR 5.5 million, and now, in a sense, the committee's section was left to try to correct this big gap and to be able to correct only the automation of the 1.5 million mail-custom control equipment. This was seen as necessary because the postal duty is changing and it is now cheaper to implement it at this stage than after it has moved. This is the kind of economic, rational thinking we would like to see done at the Ministry, when the need is now for the technology to be renewed, because this online store has grown so strongly and all the imports here to Finland that Customs will not be able to handle these things unless it gets the necessary tools for the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u376	Mr President! It is good to have another clarifying speech on the state transfers of municipalities. With regard to the savings made last season, it is good to remember that not even the euro has been repaid by this government, but the savings that this government will make will then come on top of it. After all, this is a different line from the one adopted in previous years, i.e. when the state makes some decisions that can have savings in the local government economy, the state will make those savings in advance and not only when it has been considered in terms of cost-sharing whether they have been achieved or not. With regard to next year, it is worth noting that the government's savings targets are well over 760 million, when the municipal survey shows that only 220 million of them have been realised in the local government economy, but the central government shares have been cut. This would at least be something that should be changed so that we do not go ahead and cut the state's share.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u377	Mr President! The most important thing in the local economy in Uusimaa, like many other regions, is that the economy and employment have finally been put on a path of growth. Fortunately, the economy has now been put on a growth path during this parliamentary term. The growth in employment and the growth in local government tax revenues combined with accurate economic management has helped to balance the finances of several municipalities after a long transition. Many municipalities have finally moved from a constant cost-hunt to development, and this is very good. Mr President! There have been many preparations for future social and regional reform in the budget, and that is a good thing, but I would like to ask the Minister what coverage has now been set aside to cover the costs of the preparatory and over-expenditure phase. At least from the point of view of Uusimaa, the millions earmarked for the budget seem a little modest, at least in comparison with the costs of moving to and from new social and regional government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u378	Mr President! In order to close this ambitious ten-billion-dollar sustainability gap for the government, there are a few really important elements that belong to Minister Vehviläinen. First of all, this SoteDigi. What is going on with SoteDig at the moment, because now we have quite a significant allocation for next year? Is that all on schedule? The second question would actually be the question of this qualifier of municipal tasks, and now the next step is the qualifier of regional tasks. There, too, was a billion-dollar goal. Are we on schedule now, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u379	Mr President! Without any disparaging local government finances, and in particular regional reform, which is a hugely important issue, we must pay attention to what has been shown here when more than one representative wanted to discuss customs matters, that the minister in charge is not here on the stand. Now, for the third time, for the third year in a row, I would like to recall that, when we deal with Section 28 of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance would also be here to answer questions relating to Customs and the Tax Administration, because these are extremely specific issues. The importance of both institutions, in particular in the fight against the shadow economy and in curbing aggressive tax planning is central. We are talking about great and solemn words in general terms about how everyone is opposed to aggressive tax planning, but when, in practice, we could talk about appropriations, measures and policies in this particular context, the Minister will shine with his absence. Can we get this fixed again for next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u380	Mr President! To this total central government share of the last period. In other words, the central government share is the most relevant for municipalities, which determines the distribution of costs in the municipality-state ratio, and in 2011 it was 34.11 % and in 2015 it was around 25.5%. In other words, the financial responsibility of municipalities was significantly increased. Why, then, did central government shares increase during the last parliamentary term? This was essentially influenced by the imposition of new obligations on municipalities and by the compensation of tax policies by municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u381	Mr. Speaker! I would like to add my voice to the problem raised earlier by Mrs Haraka in a clever way, which in this budget debate is in the section of the Ministry of the Interior. We are discussing crime prevention, including the fight against the shadow economy and other cooperation between the police, Customs, the Border Guard and the PTR, but one major part is missing: the collection of customs taxes, the fight against the shadow economy. Fortunately, in this debate: However, customs is not limited because the Minister of Responsibility is not present, but it is true that the debate on the fight against tax evasion in the shadow economy remains very, very thin. Not only from the point of view of resources, but also from the point of view of the angle where we are talking about extensive cooperation and financing between the police, Customs and the Border Guard and the Customs Tax Department. In this debate, the threat is that internal security and the grey economy will be cut apart. We do not need slices, we need more, more effective tax control.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u382	Mr President! Local government finances are important and I can say at least for myself that in my municipality, Kouvola, the kiky agreement has been very important for local government finances. It is unquestionably the fact that it affects it. Of course, it has been awkward for those who have been targeted. This has had a significant improvement in local government finances, at least in Kouvola. The situation with regard to customs: it is true that there should certainly be a minister's presence here, but now that it is part of that section, it should also be possible, for my part, to get this translucent device to customs as soon as possible, because there is a clear need for customs to do so. At least there is heavy use of truck lighting equipment at Vaalimaa customs, and when traffic there is increasing, there would be a significant and great need for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u383	Mr President! It is important that we now understand what we are talking about in the debate on state participation. 631 million had a negative impact on the central government share of the basic service in 2012, EUR 756 million in the following year, then EUR 1118 million, or EUR 1.1 billion in 2014 and EUR 1.3 billion in 2015. But in 2016, it is EUR 1.47 billion, 2017, that is, this year, EUR 1.9 billion negative. Next year EUR 2.1 billion and in 2019 EUR 2.2 billion will be the effects of cuts in central government shares, cuts in basic services. So this government almost doubles the effect of cuts on the central share of basic services of what was at the end of the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u384	Mr President! The municipalities and the state have not only euro-denominated debt but also large amounts of repair debt, and the problems of moisture and mould damage are rampant in Finnish municipalities, which affect up to 300,000 people. In addition, they are mainly children and young people in Finnish schools and day-care centres. In that respect, the situation is rather unreasonable. We recently received the Prime Minister's announcement of a Decade of Health Modes Action Programme and we also had a rather comprehensive debate here on this subject, but we still do not know whether these extension years and this decade will be a year for healthy or sick farms, namely the budget and resources for any measure I have not seen. What action, Minister, is the government going to take to speed up municipal renovation projects in order to allow our children, young people and local and public workers to stay in healthier places in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u385	Mr President! Indeed, this discussion about the central government shares of municipalities is rather confusing as the figures clearly show what the situation was in the last period and it was visible in the municipalities. My friends, it was clearly visible in the municipalities. I do not remember exactly how many municipalities were on the brink of a crisis, so to speak, that they were going into liquidation. There were too many of them, and really this situation has improved at the moment. I understand the pain of these demars. Now we are trying to feed people with these huge percentages and these different little details. In all this time during the budget debate, you want to reset the good deeds of the government with individual, small details. Employment will improve, local government finances will improve and this will provide new intensity. Investment in this country is going to be better than ever, and we are Europe's most growing economy at the moment. And you're the ones who's trying to spray people. Is there not even a space in your conscience so close to Christmas that you would acknowledge that this is the case? They're not on them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u386	With regard to several requests for reply from the representatives of the SDP, which have just been asked to do so, I would like to give the President-in-Office, Mrs Rinte.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u387	Thank you, Mr President. There was already talk of cuts of EUR 7 billion in the state reserves of the last parliamentary term. That's a lot went wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u388	And now the section president, Mr Kankaanniemi, and then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u389	Mr President! Indeed, this relationship is made up of a very large number of parts of the municipality and may not quite be read like Mr Rinne reads in absolute euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u398	Secretary of State, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u399	Mr President! I have to say that if the state of the municipal economy in Finland had completely collapsed, then I would understand this debate, but when there is no such thing, I now feel that this is an attempt to stimulate this debate in a rather unusual way from the SDP side. First of all, let's take the criteria for where those contributions consist: If tasks are increased, then central government shares will also be increased. If tasks are taken away, then the State's contributions will also be taken out in the same way. Furthermore, the policy of this government in the Government Programme is that if there are tax losses for municipalities, they will be fully compensated. It seems that, at least, I have assumed, we all still have the impression that the checks on the distribution of costs between the state and the municipalities must be adhered to, and this is very important now in view of next year. That's why I feel a little weird about this conversation. If we start looking closely, there's a plus and a minus. Actually, I found the paper with these pluses and minuses. As regards the central government share percentage of municipalities, next year it will be 25.34, while this year it was 0.11 percentage points lower. This is how my papers tell. Well, then, to Mrs Viljanen, there are a few other aspects that have also been considered in relation to Uusimaa, other than the fact that it is a single province. There are 1.6 million people living in Uusimaa, and it is quite clear that the success of Uusimaa in the social welfare reform is absolutely essential for the success of the reform as a whole. We have a good dialogue with the preparations for Uusimaa, and these can be seen together. As far as the question by Mr Sinuhe Wallinheimo about SoteDig is concerned, decisions have been made about it and it is in good shape: it has been transferred to the Ministry of Finance, there has been a board of directors, and there is a CEO search underway. I would stress that it is the task of SoteDigi to seek national development solutions so that this common data integration can actually work with this reform. It is extremely important for all regions. It has EUR 90 million of capitalised money and it will allow investment of between EUR 500 million and EUR 600 million in total. As far as JTS is concerned, we are on schedule. It has a municipal side, and then it has this state-related digitalization, productivity side, and there are more decisions being made about them during this winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u400	Reply, Congressman Kiuru, for a change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u401	Mr President! I thank you for this opportunity, because in the municipal section we have been very busy with this debate on what is actually going on. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this theme of debate has not been brought into this Chamber by the SDP, but precisely by the centre, which reads the same note in every single debate, and now we have just proved here that the figures you are dealing with are wrong. We have the latest information on the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. What's it gonna be? Who was right? Now the revision of the facts is of the kind that you are also responsible, Minister, to tell us: was this the case that state subsidies have been cut during this term of government? You have just told me in that toilet, in the first speech, that there has been no surgery, and then there is the accusation that there has been no surgery during this term of government, but last season, yes. It became clear that in the last period less central government shares were cut in euros than has been cut in the whole of this decade! This government will cut the government's share in this decade the most and dare to come here and tell you,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u403	Madam President! A representative of the Magpies took it. Customs issues are raised, and Mr Kiuru has also talked a lot about the grey economy, which means that this is what flying bird power is used for. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u404	Mr President! I now have direct state aids from municipalities and joint municipal boards from the calculation of the Ministry of Finance. In 2015, imputed central government shares amounted to EUR 9 billion 955 million and other central government grants by administrative sector to EUR 1.1 billion, totalling EUR 11 billion 75 million. In 2017, this year, the total number will be 10 billion 573 million, and at the end of this parliamentary term, 2019, before the social welfare impact is calculated, the sum of central government contributions will be 10 billion 241 million euros. So, in other words, you have cut the state's shares by nearly EUR 800 million during this parliamentary term,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u405	Mr President! There is now a slight difference of opinion about the figures, about what has happened over the past few years, about the last six or seven years. But such an interpretation that when the Kiki agreement reduces the cost of the municipalities — i.e. we know where they will decrease, among other things, they will also decrease as a result of index cuts — and when the state reduces the central government's share, this could not happen... It is not a cut, because, in fact, if the State were to pay those costs, there would actually be no justification for the payment by the State. When the criteria for state transfers are eliminated by those solutions under the kiky agreement, the State cannot send money to those tasks after the municipalities. There are many other details here, but this is like a fundamental issue, and this is something that this House must agree on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u406	Mr President! I fully agree with these arguments, but the fact is that, in relation to basic services, as I have just described, the central government shares will be reduced. These are the Treasury's own calculations of what's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u407	Mr President! Today it has become clear that about 70% of municipalities have introduced a restriction on subjective day care rights. Thus, children are unequal depending on the municipality in which they live. This issue has been raised here before and you have promised, Minister, to monitor the situation in child care and to take action if necessary. Today's report suggests that your decision has led to chaos. The number of children has increased and the turnover has been high. I would ask you to reply: what are you going to do now to improve the situation? But about this customs conversation. This has been an extremely good debate. The Audit Committee has also heard about Customs' new needs. After all, customs is very important in the fight against the shadow economy, but its resources have been much lower than in any other sector of the shadow economy. Now, especially with the increase in online commerce, it is becoming more and more important for them to get these information systems in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u408	Mr President! I want to talk about that subjective day care right. At the Hyvinkää Council a week ago, on a proposal from the Social Democrats, they wanted it back for us in the municipality again. It is a good thing that the municipality has the right to self-determination, even though it criticised the fact that the municipalities are protected from themselves. We had elected delegates in municipal elections this year who decided by a large majority that we would not return it. It has worked very well for us in this way. Based on the municipal elections, the local authorities knew who was driving what, so it is not always so that we would have to order from here. This bothers me when, among other things, Mr Kari asked why the restriction law protects municipalities from themselves. There is a little contradiction in another matter and there is no contradiction in the other. But with regard to the war, I would ask the Minister: why did the government programme, first the regional reform, then the financing base and then gradually freedom of choice? Now that we're trying to do all these things at once, I feel like this is never gonna get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u409	Madam President! Mr Meri, this position is also the position of the Administrative Committee. It was also noted in the Committee on Administration that, when legislation is created that causes problems or leaves gaps, it will be filled with new legislation. A situation arises in which, in practice, municipalities themselves, with good intentions, go out to build a model that is not in the interests of the Republic and therefore is not an equal course of action in Finland. True, it is possible under the current law, but the government itself went out to bake new legislation to block this loophole in the law. But it is a sign of poor lawmaking, it is not an indication that the municipalities are not protecting themselves and the self-determination of the citizens, which is at least a sacred thing for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u410	Mr President! I just wanted to point this out because it seems contradictory to me first of all to think that municipalities should not decide on subjective day care rights and that it should be restricted from here on in, and then criticise the fact that there is a law on social protection. There should be a consistent view that municipalities are allowed to decide for themselves or that municipalities are not allowed to decide for themselves. I was merely critical that we should not always ride the wheels that seem appropriate in that regard, but that we should also consider, with myself, whether I am consistent in the policy that I am pursuing and in the reasoning that I am using. In other words, either the municipality has extensive autonomy or they do not. You can't pick one thing at a time that feels good. This is what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u411	Mr President! Perhaps it is a good idea to go a little further on this state-owned sword, since many of us have already intervened here, that although we have a positive momentum on the municipal level in itself, we see the long-standing development in which the differences between municipalities have increased, and that is already reflected, for example, in the way in which the various municipalities have adopted these savings decisions on customer charges that are made possible by the government of the country or, for example, in the limitation of this subjective right to day care. Of course, this will then lead us to have unequal access to services, depending on the municipality in which they live. In fact, this is because we have the population packed into certain parts of the country and it is then removed from certain parts of the country. This is also reflected in the fact that future provinces, if they are to be established now, are also in such an unequal position, which is seen as being more difficult on the other side of Finland than on the other side. It would be a good thing if the Minister were to open up this trend a little at the end, but how can we ensure that this whole country's development is balanced, so that this inequality does not grow too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u412	Mr President! It is nice to pay attention to this situation in all the municipalities in the whole country, which is an important issue. Of course, when you look at the local government economy, you can not only look at the central government shares but also, of course, it is influenced by many other factors: the number of tasks, tax revenue, payments, compensation system, quite a few other factors, as the practitioners in the sector are well aware. But when you look at this whole, it is my opinion that the conclusion is that during the last term of the government the local government finances deteriorated and are now getting stronger during this period. Why is this important? This is important because it determines the conditions for municipalities to carry out their basic tasks from there from child day care to school, health care, and the rest of the game to the safety of older people. But it's great that the municipalities have a lot of friends in this room, I guess that's a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u413	Madam President! I'll take it from where, Mr. Kaikonen, you quit: the elderly. The cutting of central government shares inevitably affects the care of the elderly and affects their basic services. They're saving up for the care of the elderly all the time. One of the ways in which savings are made is through changes in the size of care providers, so that even unskilled people without training in social welfare and health care can participate in care for the elderly. I see this as a risk in some way. I would say that if you want something from social and health care reform and freedom of choice, then freedom of choice will also be achieved by receiving good care and service. Even today, I got a phone call in which the family in distress said that the mother is over 80 and that there is no place to take care of her, even if her feet are not carrying it. In what way will we solve this equation in the future that a person will receive its treatment when the time comes? Well, that's a big question in the middle of a mess, isn't it? On the other hand, we want savings, but we also have an ageing population. I would ask the Minister to make sure that there will continue to be a sufficient number of these care facilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u414	Madam President! Representative, President Pekkarinen on the Competitiveness Pact: It is true that it is understandable to want to be cut out of it, but we know that the 190 million that had to be cut out of it because of the mere extension of working time, i.e. 6 minutes, is about to come to 60 million, i.e. 130 million is going to be left behind. This is what municipalities have been able to do because municipalities were unable to terminate at 1.1. so many people that the extension of working time would have come through it. Is everything all right at home? This morning, however, the headline was: 'The escalating policy and savings caused chaos in day-care centres'. The second title was that municipalities have saved comprehensive school by adding money from their own other profits to that part of the comprehensive school because of savings. These are still the realistic headlines and the councilmen of local government finances in front of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u415	Mr President! I think Mr Pekkarinen made a good point of saying that we should stick to the cost-sharing amendment, and so do we. That is why we also call for this principle, which has now been introduced by the government as a new practice during this term of government, to be unfair, first to cut the central government shares of the municipalities and then to see what kind of savings have been made — that is not good as a principle. Now that we have a fundamental debate, I think we should wait for these savings to be broken down, and then, in the cost-sharing review, we should see how this is going. This practice is now new
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u416	Mr President! I am a little afraid to take part in this debate in the role of Vice-President, but when the current system of state aids is, I think, from the time when I was in charge of preparing it and presented it at the time — although some changes have been made to it, the basic structure is from that time —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u417	Mr President! I have to say that during the last parliamentary term the system of central government shares was substantially reformed, that there have been changes. [MauriPekkienkäytä]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u418	Madam Speaker! At this stage, I should like to thank the members of the Section for Administration and Security for their good cooperation in this area of taxation and in the case of Customs, as in the case of all others. We have had a very united perspective on a number of issues. At this point, I would like to remind the Minister that the Customs Control Technology Development Programme and its implementation are important to the committee. There is a great consensus that, if at all possible, the amending budget could still take account of this 4 million Gäpläp, which is what we have here, in the procurement of technology. In that sense, I believe that it is understood that, when customs's technology control is developed in an extremely good and up-to-date manner, we will also be able, through tax revenue, to recover its invested money. Finally, I would like to remind you, although this is not the minister's area of competence, of this case in Savonlinna. The committee has also written in this way that 'the Committee considers it important that the situation such as Savonlinna be taken into account in further work', so that these empty dwellings do not need to be dismantled after such removals, but taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u419	Mr President! As Mr Rinne said, during the last parliamentary term the system of central government transfers was substantially reformed. That's right. Unfortunately, this only led to local authorities becoming rather unequal in terms of the economy and, above all, rural municipalities. The financial position of municipalities weakened. Well, there has been a clear difference in this municipal policy, no matter what they say. First of all, there has been little increase in the role of municipalities, and what Mr Rinne points out is that this parliamentary term has seen a reduction in the share of the state, mainly because the functions of the municipalities have been reduced. So we need to know what's behind all the numbers. Then we must also remember that the losses suffered by municipalities in government tax policy have now been fully compensated for during this parliamentary term. The minor new tasks assigned to the municipality have been fully financed by the State.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u420	Now is only time for a few comments. Minister Vehviläinen, I have promised five minutes to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u421	Mr President! I am glad that we are talking about the big elephant that may be turning out recklessly here at the glass store so that even his own representative does not always know how to hold on to that elephant. It is now the case that it has been acknowledged that state subsidies will be cut during this term of government, and that is, of course, great news. [Timo V. Korhonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u423	Before the minister, still representatives Mika Kari and Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u424	Madam President! Since 2011, I have been sitting on the Administrative Committee and Mr Korhonen for an even longer time, and both of us remember that time — it may be that Mr Korhonen now has better company — must obviously talk to others — when, last season too, we were in pain, quite rightly, because of the austerity measures that the then government, for example, did in the municipal economy, but I do not think it is fair to give a picture of the actions of this government so that the municipalities had been somehow overly aided, the state would have financed through the state-owned system the functions of municipalities as if without problems. I think it would be fair to say that, during this government, the municipalities have borne its greatest burden by managing their own finances. There has been a bit of such a whip model, which the government has now had more of a rule than an exception, and this is also borne in mind by the unanimous position of the large cities of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u425	Madam President! Indeed, this huge number war, which the demars have now gone to visit, hides all the truth that during the last parliamentary term, the proportion of joint spending in the municipalities was increased, that is, the state withdrew from the municipalities and that was the problem I said in my previous speeches, that so many municipalities were on the verge of a crisis. If I remember the figure — I may be wrong — I remember that about 40 municipalities were on the verge of a crisis. Fortunately, the situation has improved and we all know it. And the second point, Madam President, is that now that the state has reduced the role of municipalities, as Mr Pekkarinen rightly said...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u428	At the end of the debate, then Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u429	Mr President! Here, Mr Hoskonen gave a powerful witness to what is at stake here, and I really repeat that I would understand this debate if there were to be messages coming here all the time from different communities, hundreds of municipalities, that they are on the brink of disaster, and that is certainly not the case. The most important thing in this situation is that we can look well at the local government finances as a whole. As far as this VOS system is concerned, it has already been said several times here that if tasks are increased, then money will be increased, and if tasks are reduced, then money will be reduced. And now that this parliamentary term, which is already quite advanced, I say that, for example, issues such as the transfer of income support to Kela are big things that appear there in the state shares for this year. Yes, it is worth being honest that this is what happens there. That system of state subsidies is not completely faceless, so to speak. [AnttiRinteenkäytä-KristaKuruinkäytä] As regards the last parliamentary term and, for example, the reform that took place with regard to this tax system, I think it is very bad that the property tax was taken out of it, and now we are returning it. There is a proposal in the Administrative Committee for a state participation system from 2020, which halves this property tax in this respect. Then I will say a few more things here: First of all, Mr Juvonen raised the issue of the elderly. I note that there is an increase of EUR 75 million in state contributions to the development of family and family care. But at the same time, I would like to say about this broader social reform: When many of us remember the kind of debate we have had over the years on the objectives of social welfare reform, it is not the first objective of EUR 3 billion, but the fact that we are able to secure good and appropriate services for people both on the social side and there on the basic health care side throughout Finland, equal services. I think it's very important. That's the point now. Well, then on this question by Mr Räsänen, also on the subject of social security reform, and so did Mr Meri. What is happening at the moment and why these restrictions are needed is due to the fact that our current legislation contains a lot of gaps. Here, too, each of us can look in the mirror that our legislation at this time is like this. In my province, both Rääkkylä and Tohmajärvi outsourced their entire war a long time ago, and we currently have a few ten municipalities with total outsourcing. And that is what I understood on Friday when I listened to the debate that there is, as it were, support for this restriction law from this Parliament, and that must be the case. But then I would like to say that there are 40 laws on social welfare reform already under discussion here, and I repeat that reform must be carried out. If we cannot make this reform now, it is my opinion that Finland's social and health services and this market will be divided in such a way that we risk having a private statute and a public statute, and I do not think it can be that way. We need to find the bodies that are going to be controlled all in all. That is at least my sincere aim in this respect. And I know that this is such a huge reform that everyone will find it in their own corner to start opposing. That's how it is with the big reform. Comprehensive school reform would not be the case if unanimity and consensus had been sought. That would not have been done in this country. And now I am sure we all agree that comprehensive school reform is one of the most important things in our country over the last few decades, that we have an education and that children all get to school and that there is a free schoolway. The same applies to the university network throughout the country. We must have the courage to make reforms. It is known that there may be something to fix there, but I want to believe that this Chamber will be able to take the reform forward next spring and be able to come into force in such a way that the 2020 mission transfers will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u430	And now the time for this debate has come to an end, so the general debate and the section debate will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u431	The general debate on Section 28 of the Ministry of Finance, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u432	Mr President! As a result of the shadow economy and tax avoidance, EU countries are estimated to lose up to EUR 1000 billion per year. That is more than the combined health budgets of the countries. In Finland, the size of the informal economy ranges from 10 billion to 14 billion. This represents more than 5% of GDP. This needs to be tackled more effectively than the government has proposed. In the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime, cooperation between the authorities plays a key role. It can be substantially enhanced by improving coordination and exchange of information in real time. Parliament has also called for action to strengthen the fight against the shadow economy, and it also requires resources. If the right direction is to be taken, the level of resources must be secured. The Greens therefore proposed an increase of EUR 8 million in the budget to combat the shadow economy in its various chains: the court, the prosecutor, the police and the tax authorities. Mr President! Another noteworthy aspect of the Ministry of Finance's administrative branch is the extensive problem of mold and moisture damage that is rampant throughout Finland's municipalities. According to studies, the indoor air problem is clearly in over half of schools and day care centres. Up to 300,000 people, a large number of children and young people, are present in homes and humidity-damaged areas. For years, exposure to bad indoor air can endanger the health of these people for the rest of their lives. The indoor air problems have been known for 25 years. Instead of getting things right, the amount of public debt has doubled over that period and is already around EUR 4.65 billion. Now those problem buildings should be repaired or dismantled when interest rates are down and jobs are needed. The Greens have suggested that the State will support municipal mold renovation projects for a period of 3 years with EUR 100 million per year. We expect the government to make more of an effort. New studies and new operational programmes alone will not help anyone who is sick from the indoor air quickly. We also need the resources to correct the problems. Mr President! Thirdly, energy tax subsidies. There are 11 tax subsidies for energy tax revenue alone, i.e. tax relief, which exceeds 2 billion in total. One of the most important is lower taxation of fuel used in machinery. In 2018, this tax subsidy is estimated at EUR 454 million. The Greens have argued that less than a quarter of this tax aid will be cut. Technically, this can be done, for example, by transferring taxable light fuel oil users to the taxation of diesel, but, in a reasonable way, some of this savings will be returned to them in the context of taxation. A similar return system has been created for farms, for example. However, the government has not taken steps to cut tax subsidies for light fuel oil. Mr President! Tax refunds for energy-intensive companies are targeted at large industrial enterprises and support for the fossil economy. These tax reductions are in flagrant conflict with Finland’s climate objectives, as they water down companies’ incentives to find low-emission solutions and improve energy efficiency. The Central Government Research Centre (VATT) has stated that due to energy tax returns, the State loses around EUR 200 million in tax revenue each year without obtaining the desired value for its money, as nothing indicates that the aid has improved the competitiveness of these companies. Dear government, why is this polluting form of tax subsidies not already abolished? Mr President! Last year the government transferred the mines to the lower electricity tax category of energy-intensive industrial companies. You might ask, why? The Greens have suggested that mining should be transferred back to a higher electricity tax category, which would generate an additional revenue of almost EUR 20 million for the State. The same amount has been estimated to accrue from the introduction of the mining tax we have proposed, which would compensate for the disadvantages and costs incurred by mining sites, among other things. Most of this tax revenue would come from large multinational companies that exploit our national bedrock at an excessively low price. However, neither of these proposals to improve the accountability and acceptability of mining has been acceptable to the Government. These tax revenue increases could, if desired, have been used to implement a fixed-term tax exemption for electric cars and thus steer our fleet towards a more clean, renewable mobility path more strongly than some of the government's good proposals in themselves are seeking. All in all, Mr President, in order to reform the structures and working methods of society and reduce problematic emissions and other environmental impacts, there would be much more to be done with tax solutions than what the government has done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u433	Mr President! The clock is approaching at four o'clock in the morning, and the plenary session is quite long. This branch of the Ministry of Finance is, of course, an important topic. Perhaps a few words have to be said about this when these last speeches are about to start. In recent weeks, views have been expressed, and also from the Finnish Government, that the integration of monetary union should be increased. However, the euro area includes countries with very significant differences in price competitiveness and productivity and these differences have led, or at least lead to, the emergence and deepening of permanent differences in living standards in the euro area. At the same time, the euro area has been artificially held together by the European Central Bank. In my view, it is clear that without the ECB's massive purchase programmes and stimulus measures, market interest rates would be at a different level than they are today. These chosen policies have created a link between banks and host countries, increased the responsibility of governments, and there has been virtually no investor responsibility at all. This artificially low interest rate and almost free money have led to frivolous debt, while, in the name of solidarity, someone else and, in this case, essentially the Central Bank and, of course, the countries of the euro area are supposed to bear the risks. The maintenance of such structures unfortunately leads to solidarity, and since solidarity is not in Finland's national interest, Finland and, of course, the government must prepare for the break-up of the euro area in the form of a concrete contingency plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u434	Mr President! On this point in the case of state resources, in the case of municipalities: It is great to see that the government has given good support to the municipalities, and it seems that next year there will be almost the same level of government support for the municipalities. And it is hoped that this improvement in the local government finances, which has now taken place, will continue. One point in the government's programme has been that it has been recorded that the aim would be to reduce municipalities' tasks and obligations by around 700 million, but this has not been achieved at the 2019 level. Here, too, is what the municipalities themselves have wanted to decide, and different types of decisions have been taken in different municipalities from different points of view. Let us hope, however, that the municipalities understand their own good role and then make adequate savings decisions. The big thing is ahead of us, Mr President: this regional and social reform and the preparatory resources in it. For example, we have about 500 people in Pirkanmaa currently working hard on this regional and social reform. It is also very important that the resources for this are sufficient for the whole of Finland, and around EUR 180 million will be allocated here to prepare the reform. And here the big question is, how are we going to get these information systems projects going in these municipalities and how are we going to do that, because we are going to have to combine several different information systems. We must also thank the state that the SoteDigi project also aims to promote this and other projects, thereby supporting this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u435	Mr President! Mr Pirttilahti referred above to the economic situation of the municipalities, and it is worth mentioning that during this term of government the situation in the municipalities has changed substantially in the better direction compared to the very difficult situation of the last period. But there is a record in the Government Programme that the government will fully reimburse the municipalities for the expenses incurred if and when additional obligations are imposed on the municipalities. Well, I believe that this entry also applies to those situations where the revenue from payments under municipal law is reduced by statutory measures. After all, the government has now submitted a proposal, and it has in fact already been discussed in Parliament this autumn: this reduction in customer fees for early childhood education. The proposal itself has been very good and worthy of support, but then, of course, this funding from the municipalities suffers a little from it, because the deductions of EUR 110 million in payments are not fully compensated for by the municipalities. By increasing the central government share of basic services and increasing the share of corporation tax, approximately EUR 85 million will be reimbursed, but the missing EUR 25 million will have to come from raising the thresholds for real estate taxes. Fortunately, that decision was withdrawn by the government. It was not taken forward here in Parliament. But, indeed, the municipalities are now missing EUR 25 million, and I believe that the government must urgently take measures to fully compensate the municipalities for the loss of income resulting from the reduction in early childhood education contributions and thus ensure that this government programme is recorded and also the spirit of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u436	Mr President! Excuse me, it is not intended to prolong this long evening in itself, but Mr Savio's attention to this compensation for early childhood education fees: Of course, it is also worth remembering the way the government calculated how it compensates the municipalities. It only decreased the overall local government finances, although there are huge differences within municipalities as to what this decision means in their economy. The decision is therefore quite excellent, reducing early childhood education fees, but of course it is the principle which the government itself has recorded, that all such government decisions are compensated for by municipalities and that additional tasks are fully compensated for. (a) If this objective is even pursued with regard to the total amount, which is not now being achieved because the idea of raising the lower limit of real estate tax was withdrawn, and (b) if it is thought that compensation is actually directed at the municipalities where the costs will be incurred, then it should be taken care of in some way other than by looking at the municipal court as a whole and giving it to the municipal authority as a whole, because then it is not at all directed towards the way in which the costs are borne by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u437	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u438	Madam President! There are long-term and accurate research data on the effects of alcohol policy in Finland. The legislative changes to increase the availability of alcohol have, without exception, increased the overall consumption of alcohol and, as a result, caused many adverse effects and additional costs. It is incomprehensible that the narrow majority of the Parliament was prepared to ignore the views of a large group of experts and also of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Research data and the views of many experts were left unemphasised in this legislative reform. The passages and arguments of the adopted draft law are incomprehensiblely contradictory. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs both made clear statements in which this was expressed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also imposed an obligation to eliminate the conflict or, if not, to justify it. However, this was not the case. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we heard a large number of experts from whom views were received on all other points except those concerning distance selling, unless the written opinion of Alko, which was specifically requested at the end, is taken into account. When the draft law was submitted for consultation, it contained a clear section on distance sales of alcoholic beverages across borders and on the prohibition of cross-border distance sales to Finland. However, the government had dropped that section from the actual proposal and now risking Alko’s monopoly by gambling. The Group of the Christian Democrats has supported the consolidation of alcohol law and the regulations adopted along with it into a more coherent whole. We have considered it necessary to correct obsolete regulations and to simplify standard jungles. Unfortunately, however, the government proposal has left the needs of the business community, not the welfare of citizens and society. The purpose of the Alcohol Act is to reduce alcohol consumption and harm by limiting and controlling business activities. These obligations and objectives are not reflected in the regulatory solutions of the law. The reform is also in serious conflict with the objectives of Juha Sipilä's Government Programme. The legislative reform includes a series of changes that will result in many harmful effects on public health, family relations, children’s well-being, economy, government activities and so on. The damage is well known to the government. On the other hand, the possible positive effects on economic issues are very uncertain. Any additional revenue will completely lose its meaning in view of the increasing direct and indirect costs. Mr President! Although the legislative proposals also contain the necessary changes, the reform will cause so many disadvantages and scrap the work that has been done over the last ten years to reduce alcohol harm that the Christian Democratic Parliament cannot support the proposal. I am therefore proposing to reject the legislative proposals. I would also like to make five statements for approval by Parliament, as they have been distributed to the table of representatives. There are already resource shortages and excessive workload in a number of administrative sectors where the increase in alcohol harm will be visible. These changes should have very serious consequences for public health, the well-being of families and children and internal security, among other things. That is why I would like to make my first statement: 'The Commission requires the government to allocate additional resources to the police, rescue services, emergency services, child protection and other social work, outreach youth work, substance abuse and mental health care, expansion of shelters and prevention of substance abuse, so that the above-mentioned industries can address the various disadvantages and the ever-increasing workload which the reform of the alcohol law has created.' Since the government's proposal is based on: The status of the alko is maintained as it stands, the ban on distance selling must be clearly enshrined in the law. It is for the legislator to legislate in such a way as to be precise and to leave nothing deliberately to the Court of Justice to interpret. Such a procedure would also be contrary to the tripartite doctrine of power. An interpretative situation raises problems, for example, with the control of tax payments and sales controls. To allow distance selling would mean a parallel retail channel for monopoly products, the dismantling of Alko's monopoly and the privatisation of the alcohol trade in Finland. As a second statement, I would like to say that the Parliament requires that the government prepare and bring before Parliament as soon as possible a draft law banning distance sales of alcohol, which also guarantees Alko's monopoly in accordance with the purpose of the reform of alcohol law. The reform will give effect to the provision that a person aged 16 or over should be allowed to sell and give under the supervision of a manager responsible for alcoholic beverages or another designated person. The proposed amendment is an irresponsible and contradictory measure in view of the fact that a 16-year-old is a minor and that the buying and surrender of alcoholic beverages must be punishable as an alcohol offence. As regards the provision, no assessment has been made of the aspects of child protection and the work of the underage worker. Working in a liquor restaurant and the service of potentially intoxicated customers is not even for the benefit of a minor under supervision. In different ways, it can also hinder his development. As a third statement, I would therefore like to say: "The government requires that, within a year from the point of view of child protection, a report be drawn up by the government on the conditions under which minors have worked and the potential sexual harassment they have been exposed to, since a 16-year-old person can work in the licensed retailing of alcoholic beverages and alcoholic beverages after the reform, and the government has not carried out child protection assessments in connection with the preparation of the legislative reform." At the moment, the supply of non-alcoholic beverages at the liquor shops is still too often limited to soft drinks and coffee. However, high-quality non-alcoholic beverages sold at the place of issue would enable a larger proportion of customers to choose the non-alcoholic option instead of alcohol. Investing in and increasing non-alcoholic products could also reduce alcohol consumption in social situations. The provision of high-quality non-alcoholic products would contribute to the intended purpose of the alcohol law. As a fourth statement, therefore, I would like to say: "The government requires that a draft law be prepared to ensure that a sufficient quantity of non-alcoholic products are available from the product groups of the alcoholic beverage range at the place of issue." The aim of the Government proposal is to increase self-monitoring. However, even during the current law, the main supervisory authorities have identified shortcomings in the tax payment or accounting of a significant number of companies audited. The expert hearings have strongly pointed out that the government's proposal weakens the ability of licensing authorities to combat the shadow economy and financial crime in the housing and nutrition sector, which is central to the fight against the shadow economy. Similarly, the Alcohol Act weakens the exchange of information between authorities and the supervision of the sector through cooperation between the authorities. The impact of the proposal is therefore at odds with the government's anti-gravity measures. In the fifth statement, I would like to say: "The government requires that, within a year, the government carry out an analysis of whether the alcohol law reform has led to an increase in self-control in the black economy, and that, on the basis of the report, the government prepares and brings to Parliament the necessary legislative changes to remove the grey economy."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u439	Madam President! Last Friday was a black Friday. The government brought in a very contradictory proposal about the alcoholic. The processing process of the Alcohol Act has been completely incomprehensible in its hasty and vagueness. The government has given no value to the experts in the field or to the researchers in the field. The government has agreed on the guidelines for the alcohol law in the government negotiations, and on this basis a reform of the alcohol law has been prepared. This was confirmed to us several times during the committee debate, which resulted in the consultation of experts being only a mandatory event. The lobbying of business and the Federation of the Brewing Federation has passed by public health and industry experts. Again, the views of the various committees were completely ignored, such as, for example, the concerns of the Committee on Administrative Affairs about the inadequacy of police officers, as the increase in alcohol consumption will lead to an increase in violence, unrest, public and road safety. In addition, the Administrative Law and the Constitutional Committees all unanimously stated that confusion about distance selling should be clarified in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. This was not to be taken into account in the report, but rather the opposition's representatives were silenced by force in the committee without thorough consultation and discussion. In other words, it may be said that once again, an absolutely incredible and truly contradictory parliamentary process. Madam President! By a majority decision, Parliament has accepted a government proposal which left a number of unclear issues and shortcomings in the bill. Last Friday I raised a joint protest from the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the RKP and the Greens. There were also five statements in our objection. The first relates to the concern I have just mentioned by the Administrative Committee, which is to say: 'The government requires that the additional resources required by the police, customs and emergency services for the reform of the alcohol law be secured by the government.' Unfortunately, at least no additional funding will be available for next year's budget. Mr President! As I said, the Constitutional Committee of Parliament, the Legal Affairs Committee and the Economic Committee have all clearly stated in their statements that there is a contradiction between the section and the explanatory statement relating to distance selling, which is why the section was required to be clarified by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. However, the majority of the committee, or the government parties, concluded that distance selling was not specified by a section, but was still left unclear so that, if necessary, it could come back to this. We believe that the provisions on distance selling should be clarified as required by the Constitutional Committee. That is why we are making a statement on this matter: "The government requires that clear rules on distance selling be drawn up as soon as possible to secure Alko's exclusive retail position in Finland." In addition, two complementary statements. Much has been said during the expert hearings of the law about protecting children from alcohol harm. We consider it very important that children are also taken into account responsibly in the product placement of alcoholic beverages in grocery stores. For this reason, on these grounds, we are making two statements to the House: "The Parliament requires the Government to seek new effective and clear means of limiting alcohol advertising for children and young people and for more effective monitoring of alcohol advertising rules. The aim must be to reform alcohol advertising so that the starting point is to restrict the advertising of all alcoholic beverages only to the provision of product information." We also propose: 'The government requires that provisions on the display of alcoholic beverages in grocery stores be prepared by the government, particularly in order to prevent the consumption of alcohol by children and young people.' The following statement relates to the shadow economy. The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health left very little of the grey economy. A business model has been developed for alcohol-advertising activities in which business is carried out in such a way that taxes and other obligations are not intended to be paid. As many as 70% of the 650 restaurants inspected in the Tax Administration’s control project 2015-2016 found shortcomings in tax payments or accounts. One characteristic of this type of activity is its indifference to the provisions of the Alcohol Act. This will contribute to the growth of the informal economy, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for example, drew attention. That is why we are proposing the fifth statement: 'The government expects the government to safeguard the additional resources required by the reform of the alcohol law in order to combat the black economy. In addition, in order to combat the shadow economy, the government is preparing a regulation requiring the use of a type-approved cash register to be subject to a licence. " Mr President! According to the Constitution, public authorities must promote the health of the population. Public authorities must strive to safeguard everyone's right to a healthy environment. We have a duty, among other things, to support families’ opportunities to safeguard their child’s well-being and individual growth. The government proposal will increase alcohol consumption, general insecurity, crime, violence, the informal economy, absenteeism from work, nausea and costs for social and health services. The aim should be to reduce, not increase, the consumption of alcohol and the nausea and human suffering it causes. If we adopt the bill, we will accept the rise in total alcohol consumption and the increase in health damage. There are no grounds for this. That is why I support the motion to reject this bill. Mr President! Next, I would like to express the common view of all opposition parties except the Finns of Peru: "In the case of alcohol law in the Due to the government's great rush, the report of the Alcohol Act was brought from the committee to the plenary session at approximately an hour's notice. The legislative representatives did not have time to look into the report or its arguments. The Government ignored the proposals made by the committees for improvements in legislation by pushing through legislation that was qualitatively inferior and contradictory in substance. In its opinion on the alcohol law, the Constitutional Committee stated that in the case of distance sales of alcohol, legislation needs to be corrected to ensure that it meets the legal clarity required. When the government itself was unable to decide what it wanted to do, it put a stamp on Parliament's legislation on distance selling, promising that the government would subsequently set up a working group to determine the exact content of the legislation. The result now is that no one really knows what the legislation will lead to when it comes to distance selling. This is a risk of legal security for both citizens and businesses and a disgrace for the whole of democracy. The question of whether, contrary to its declarations, the government is actually seeking to dismantle Alko's monopoly is raised by the unclear legal situation. The government has shown a deep lack of respect for the parliament and democratic principles that exercise the highest legislative power in Finland. That is why we propose that the government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u440	Madam President! Although there are some positive aspects to this government proposal, the overall picture, especially after the parliamentary vote, remains so bad and problematic that it is necessary to reject this proposal as a whole, and I therefore also support Mr Tanus's proposal to reject it. At the same time, Mr President, I also support the statements made by Mr Tanus, the five statements which he made and which are joint statements by the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament. I also support Mr Kiljune's motion of censure. In my opinion, all of these are indeed justified for a number of reasons. First of all, the procedure for moving this bill forward: This was carried through as an urgent motion, although we do not have any social need which would require this law to be in force at the beginning of the year. Parliament was not even given the opportunity to look into it, to read through the report, the 200-page report, which at least I myself only received at 5 p.m. when the sitting was going on and at 7.30 p.m. the hearing began. Now that I have carefully read through this presentation during the weekend, I can see that there are many points that remain completely outside the discussion. I believe that this has happened to many others. I do not think that this procedure deserves this proposal to be adopted at this second reading. We must be able to deal with this in the light of day and discuss it carefully, because it is a question of the future, it is a question of public health, it is also a question of the national economy. Yes, the main disappointment with this proposal is that Parliament ended up selling stronger alcohol products from grocery stores and kiosks in the future. During the debate, the reason why this 0.8 percentage points was alarmed was raised many times. Firstly, we are talking about 17 % stronger beer or cocktails, and on the other hand, the same question can be thrown in the other direction. What was the need — the brewery industry sometimes lobbyed us parliamentarians very aggressively, as well as the Trade Union — to get that 0.8 percentage points up? There were no public health or public welfare reasons for this, but there was a purely industrial competition. As a result, we know that Alko's output will be transferred to the grocery trade of around EUR 100 million, and this was a key reason for bringing this change through. During the debate, there was also talk of possible positive effects on employment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committee's report describes how the OECD has estimated in its 2015 report that the impact of alcohol on the workplace in terms of production losses is about 1% of gross domestic product. And when Finland’s gross domestic product is EUR 204 billion, 1% of Finland’s annual production loss is about EUR 2 billion, at present. So this is a major economic issue. When, according to the government’s proposal, the indirect costs of alcohol would be at least EUR 1 billion a year on the basis of a more detailed estimate, a few percent increase in these alcohol losses will mean loss of production of several tens of millions of euros. Such costs are ready to be accepted with this proposal. Mr President! A major problem, both substantive and procedural, relates to this missing item on distance selling. At the time of the presentation of the alcohol bill, the section was still in that draft and the authors gave their opinion on it. In the course of the debate, at least not a word was said about this ban on distance selling, as I have heard. It was only one week before the committee's report was drawn up that the matter arose in committee and was not even allowed to go through it in committee, not to mention here in the Chamber. It is, however, even about the preservation of Alko's monopoly and the future of a public health-driven alcohol policy. Mr President! There are indeed many reasons to reject this proposal, and I believe that there are very strong arguments here, too, for Parliament's lack of confidence in the government, both because of this procedure and because of its content.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u441	Madam President! There is an alcohol law in the proceedings, and this has been discussed here for a long time and discussed during the night hours. I have to say, I've never been lobbyed by anyone. So here, when it was mentioned that the Commerce Federation and the brewing industry have been lobbying hard, I was just checking my e-mail and saying how I have only received a Christmas card from the Commerce Federation today. I don't know if I've passed the mail since then. On the other hand, there may be a message that it may be thought that I am a hopeless case, or there may be a message that it is not worth lobating, that it certainly makes its own decision, and I have passed it. I only met Alko's representation in connection with this law. So I'm a former member of Alko's board of directors, and I'm happy to meet Alko's people as well. Mr President! Yes, distance selling was discussed in committee. I remember that when the alcohol law began to be discussed and we had Ismo Tuominen to present, distance sales were being discussed, and at least at the end of the meeting I confirmed and asked whether this is really the case, that there are gaps in distance selling, we do not know what it is going to mean. And yes, he did so to suggest that there is. It is to be criticised that this has not gone quite as it did in Strömsö and not in accordance with all the good rules of the game. On the other hand, in this decision-making process, you can already see that decisions are made on the municipal level by fatigue or delay — that is, we sit here nightly, with our eyes crossed — or quickly jerks, that is to say, we do not have time to focus on these issues and get into them. Maybe this is where both chips are going. It is true that we did not have time to read the report — or you who did not deal with it in committee. Of course, I was there so that I knew what the content of that law was, and I have always kept the group informed. Mr President! Alcohol is the kind of thing that evokes feelings. In Finland, half the people are opposed, half the people are in favour. That democracy also appears here in Parliament. What would we have without Alko? We would lack a huge amount of tax money if people did not drink, buy beer, or use wine. Everyone chooses the way in which alcohol is used, it comes from us. And I personally think that we are in the EU, that we are open and that we should gradually also have the ability to decide for ourselves what we drink and when we drink, and we should go out and raise our society in such a way that we teach our children and young people to use that alcohol properly by holding that sobriety education. At least I'm not tired of it. I've been asked questions about that when it Juvonen is such a social worker, but he supported this 5.5 for why I did. That is because I am also thinking extensively about these issues. We have responsibilities, we have responsibilities, we can each do our own thing to help us move forward, but we can also raise people alongside them. And it is raising young people and that young people, from a very young age, and when they come to teenage age and then move on to their own, understand what alcohol is and what it means to drink alcohol. We cannot be the guardians of our brothers: everyone uses what he uses. But when you're sick, you're sick, you're sick, you're sick, you're sick, you're sick, you're responsible. If we decide here about the alcoholic, we are also responsible for providing help, we provide health services, we provide resources there. I have made three statements in committee, and I am extremely sorry that, when I am the only Finnish-based citizen there at the moment, no matter how much you twist good things from iron, they will of course not get support, because you are there alone. I supported the two statements made by the Social Democrats and I consider them to be very good, but I also made my own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u450	Madam President! Social and health policy involves the real purpose of alcohol policy in terms of its spirit in order to reduce the harm and problems caused by alcohol. This is therefore the starting point for all our legislation on social and health policy. Those disadvantages should be reduced for users, for their loved ones and for society, and that is why we are also taking different decisions here, not just with regard to the alcohol law, but with regard to many other laws. We are trying to reduce human suffering, and therefore various laws are very often made on the basis of expert consultations and on the basis of their costs and adverse effects, above all, and not on the basis of what we want, for example, to present to other people in order to meet a demand. The reform of the Alcohol Act was carried through as a political decision. Experts, committees and concerns of the authorities were ignored. Political decision-making actually progressed in such a way that government parties, including the Finns of Finland, were auctioning on the content of the alcohol law at their own group meetings, and the auction progressed so that we also had options 4.7 per cent, 5.5 per cent and 8.5 per cent. They were first traded and voted on. Then we also traded on this possible sale of wine, and in our group it went so that by one vote, according to my point of view, it was won that we Finns did not go out and drive wines to shops. This is what the coalition was driving, if you remember, more than a year ago. In my opinion, auctioning is in itself a good symbol of how these were actually dealt with. Before that, there was hardly any real discussion of the drawbacks that this is going to cause, but only a simple and clear desire to seek favor for the bad policy of the government, a counterweight. This is my point of view, why it was taken forward. And the sad thing about this decision-making process is that Rehula, then Minister for Family and Basic Services of the Government, strongly opposed the fact that strong beers, let alone wines, would enter the stores, and he was brave enough to fight him for about a year but found himself losing the game because the Coalition Party and the Finns did not give up at all that strong beers would come to the store. However, I do not understand that if someone has principles in their own political decision-making or wisdom that has been drawn from something in the past, why should it be sold out of a few rock plates or a few applauses, because, for example, then the Minister for Basic Service, Mr Rehula, was very right to object, but, nevertheless, voted in favour of this increase in percentage here on Friday. So, in itself, political decision-making is quite a trade in cows. I do not know what happened there when, after all, the so-called freedom of conscience in this vote was not kept in the centre. We each saw for ourselves that this negotiation was still going on here on Friday because it was feared that this motion would fall, and as a result the sitting was suspended, so that the government parties could negotiate outside this Chamber when everything was mixed up, no one knew what to vote for and when. Well, that confusion may have been caused by the last night's discussions and those Christmas parties that had such an atmosphere that, not only now because of our conversations, it was just sitting next to someone who was intoxicated. So it was in itself so ironic this whole process and this situation, which was between Thursday and Friday. The delegates were drunk and decided on a new alcoholic and voted one more and the other less drunk,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u453	Mr President! At the outset, I have to tell Mr Niiko that they were probably not intoxicated in this Chamber, just because the audience did not have that impression. [MikaNiikkoarvo] But to the point. First of all, I support Mr Niiko's statement on that age limit. I think it would be appropriate for the young people to end at 22 hours this, if we are in educational situations, and certainly after that there is no need for the under 18-year-old to be in this kind of job anymore. I would have supported these excellent statements made by Mr Juvonen here too. As I recall, the first speech by the SDP contained this motion of censure on this preparation. We discussed this in the Group of the Finns Party, and we did have a very unpleasant feeling of being a member of the Constitutional Committee myself, which is why the ban on distance selling was left so unclear. In our view, it should definitely have been provided for, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, but the text of the motion of censure seemed to us as if we had not understood what we voted on here last Friday, especially when we listened to it. At least our group understood what we were voting on. Of course, it was unreasonable for this report to come so quickly, but this subject has been under discussion for years, so that we, the percentages, in particular, understood very well, each of us here, and I think it would be unreasonable to express mistrust to the government as if we did not know what we decided. This was the central reason why we, at least the whole group, have not been able to support this, because it would seem a little unintelligent to vote first and have a strong point of view and then, in a few days' time, to announce that I am going to pass a motion of censure when there was such a confusing text that I did not know what I was deciding. I hope that those who are now tabling a motion of censure will understand what they decided on Friday. I think it was a good idea for Mr Juvosen to think that there could be both chips on the move, are these rushers and then are also the delayers of this issue. Of course, it is the case that everyone can have different views and fears about this. I've been thinking about that moderate percentage increase for a long time. This was asked, among other things, in the parliamentary elections in the parliamentary election machine, and I already announced there that I am more liberal about this and I am willing to believe and trust Finns and release them and move forward in this life. I have never been such that I believe in the guardianship of people, but I believe more in what Mrs Juvonen was talking about, that education, that education. Somehow I always feel that the forbidden and hidden fruit is somehow more interesting. I talked about this with more people this weekend, and someone actually told me very well that what would it do if it wasn't raised: when you buy just a little more of that three beer, you can get the same kind of drunk. I thought it was a pretty good example. He thought it was a very good decision. I also checked whether Friday or Saturday night, on TV, was the president of the Small Brewery Federation, and he told me that 20 years have been waiting for this decision that small breweries can sell their products. He said that over the years he had been talking to officials from the ministries who had said that this would never come, and he was really happy about it for the small breweries. There's a lot of different things here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u458	Madam President! I was now surprised by what Mr Mere said when you spoke about the assessment made by experts and by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that this change in legislation will lead to more than 150 deaths a year. Even now we have alcohol-induced deaths between 2000 and 3000, depending on the estimate. I hope I misinterpreted it when you said in that connection that you do not understand why there has been such a big deal about this. Yes, I must make a big deal out of it if it is known that 150 people are in danger of dying. When the alcohol tax was reduced by 30% in 2003, it was estimated that there would be 600 more deaths, and that was the case. It came about just as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health estimates it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u459	Mr President! I said that I do not in itself question expert opinions, that I have no competence, but I personally do not believe that about 100 to 150 people will die immediately. And then at a later stage, I said that I do not understand why this alcohol has been made such a big issue. This is what I'm talking about. You asked me what I meant, now I told you, and now you're rolling your eyes. Well, what am I supposed to say now? Do you want me to say the same thing again? I still have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u460	Mr President! I still wonder about this comment you made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u463	Mr President! It seems that things have just been added by Mr Räsänen. Now you bring up the harm of alcohol. I didn't deny the harm of alcohol. I said that I do not believe that people rush into drinking and become alcoholics. I just don't believe it. I don't believe it. I didn't say there were no health problems, but I don't really believe it. I see a lot of people now, too. I don't have any expert opinions. I'm the one who told you what I think.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u464	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u465	Mr President! We must take up this speech by Mrs Meren just now. It's a little strange that he's really starting his own decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u468	Madam President! I would like to pick up on what Mr Pekonen said very strongly: the possibility for Parliament to hold a debate on the draft law, the fact that the committee was passed. As I myself am now a Member of Parliament, the expert consultations I have presented in committee, either in writing or in consultation with the expert, have been respected, as a general rule. At no time has my expert opinion, even at an urgent stage, been ignored. This is indeed sad that Parliament is being turned into a government rubber stamp, i.e. a rubber stamp, on urgent grounds. This legislation would not have been urgent, it could have come into force from the beginning of July, or it could have been postponed for a few months. Although I may disagree with my group on this proposal, this legislative work is incomprehensible. It deprives us of the opportunity to consult experts and to form our own position on the basis of expert statements. If Parliament is denied the opportunity to consult experts, this is quite incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u471	Madam President! Indeed, this matter has deeply violated my parliamentary rights. That is something that we are not getting anywhere at the moment when it is a procedure of this kind for getting a 200-page presentation in your hand and then demanding and assuming that you have been familiar with it and then making your own decision as to whether something is good or bad. In a way, the ethical, internal code and thinking of the MP is that we have agreed together — and Parliament's Rules of Procedure confirm that — that this work is being carried out, this legislative work, through expert consultations, but now it was not possible to get to know them. I do not know which truth committee should be set up around this debate, but something should be learned from this, Madam President. Something should be done about this. I would say that on 16 December 2017 was such a great day for weighing. Every once in a while in the Parliament during the parliamentary term, this kind of thing bigger than life becomes a decision to make. It is also such a public day of weighing of the MPs, which measures the values of the MPs, their sense of reality, their ability to control the overall view and their ability to think for the best of the people. That is where the individual’s freedom and these political world images, whose tangles this hall is, are at odds. I wonder whether it is right for individual freedom to be raised above all decision-making at the expense of others, the idea that let individual freedom live, now no one can interfere with what I do, this ideal idea, which, among other things, is guaranteed by the Constitution and our constitutions, that individual freedom is what a person must experience. But what about a congressman, who is not a representative of one person, but a representative of the entire people, who must be able to set and evaluate his decision through what kind of economic, people’s mental and even people’s spiritual state our legislation produces? Someone once made a claim that the legislator did not dictate morality. Well, someone else answered that the legislator always regulates morality, but for whom, it is the key issue. After this vote, I was left wondering what kind of parliamentary vote was represented by these results. At least one thing was a great surprise to me. I did not understand why the police and medical representatives, who are absolutely absolute experts, voted in favour of this. Was there something so great about this that without any expert opinion and experience and listening, it was simply decided that we would now change this alcohol law? I don't think that's a good motive. Weighed and found wanting, that kind of feeling was left to me by this process. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to vote again. Yes, I am in favour of this whole proposal being rejected because of this process. Although we also see in the Christian Democrats that there were many good things in this proposal, there are some things that deserved to be changed, because of this process I am tempted to press against this proposal again, in favour of its rejection, and even if it were possible to reopen the matter next week on the basis of the good things which are, as it were, being overshadowed here. We increase the availability from 350 to 5500 stores for strong beers and cider and others. No one can claim that it would not increase alcohol consumption. Now that we have heard that the price of four cells is going to fall significantly, it is not necessary to be equipped with a great stream of reason to understand which drink will increase. Well, the stronger, of course, and the problems rise and grow with it I believe that everything has to be said on this point. This is actually the replay of the words that have been spoken in a different order, but I felt it was important to say that the job of a Member of Parliament is a valuable job and that it should be something that interprets and understands the whole and the overall view, controls it, controls the ability to think for the best of the people. I do not think that this was the case with the majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u472	Mr President! If the bill had been adopted at first reading in the form proposed by the committee, I would be prepared to vote in favour of the law at final reading, but when the law took its form as it was received, I would support the rejection proposal. The speeches at first and second readings have already addressed this issue from the point of view of public health and from the human perspective of people's lives. I would like to emphasise the economic arguments in this speech. Mr Räsänen has already pointed out the OECD's assessment of the costs of alcohol-related deaths and illnesses and reduced working capacity for the national economy. The committee's report also states that the increase in alcohol consumption, which the government's proposal means, will increase the number of alcohol-related deaths. In the debate at first reading, Mr Puska pointed out that additional deaths are from 150 to 500, depending on what is involved, whether deaths caused by alcohol are taken immediately or those diseases for which the increase in alcohol consumption increases the risk. In fact, the committee's report states that these diseases include not only actual alcohol diseases but also neurological diseases, cancers, blood diseases, brain bleeds, degeneration of the heart muscle. There are then many more cases of human health loss and loss of ability to work and early retirement for each death caused by these diseases. In other words, all this costs social and health services and also reduces the number of financiers, the number of those who, through their work and taxes, pay for the welfare state. In particular, I am surprised that the coalition, which is the first to talk about the sustainability gap in a very many contexts, is calling for a responsible fiscal policy in this particular area, has been very strongly calling for a solution that we know will weaken public finances. Well, then the other half of the matter will have an impact on the business world. In politics, there is quite a general illusion that the interests of a business sector or a few industries are the same as the interests of the entire economy or the national economy as a whole. This solution, which the Parliament, by a narrow majority at first reading, has certainly been sought by the retail sector and desired by the Federation of the Brewing Party, particularly by the supranational brewing industry, but, as was pointed out in the debate at first reading, it could well cause economic harm to the restaurant industry. However, it is estimated that 60% of alcohol-related jobs are currently in the restaurant sector, and this change is now expected to shift alcohol consumption to homes and park benches, away from restaurants. Of course, the economy as a whole suffers from a reduction in the number of people capable of working and a deterioration in their working condition. But if we are thinking specifically of the brewing industry, then the situation that we have now, that is, that there is this 4.7 per cent limit in retail stores, has in a certain way favoured domestic manufacturers. Foreign manufacturers have many beers whose alcohol content is caught between these concepts known in Finland, middle beer and four cells. They now enter the grocery store and export shelf space from domestic breweries, including small breweries. In itself, it is very welcome that small breweries are allowed to be sold out. That is something I myself have supported, but, as a whole, this law, as it was adopted at first reading, may, however, weaken the competitive position of the domestic small brewing industry. In other words, if the overall economic impact is considered to be wider, even if it is viewed only from the point of view of the industry, the impact is likely to be negative. I would like to draw attention to one inconsistency, Mr President. It is that we have developed tobacco legislation throughout the EU and also in Finland in the direction that we have wanted to prevent new young age groups from becoming addicted to nicotine addiction by prohibiting the marketing of tobacco by means that are known to be particularly addictive to young people. Now, in the reform of the alcohol law, we are doing exactly the opposite when we relax the way so-called soda wines are produced and allow even stronger liquors to be sold to grocery stores. This is precisely what attracts young people to be users, and unfortunately not all these young people will remain moderate users, but for some of them alcohol will at some point be a problem in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u473	Madam President! I must have used enough time on the night between Thursday and Friday to justify my position on this alcohol law. So I am in favour of the alcohol law as a whole, but, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I did not want the percentage of alcohol sold in the store to be raised. But I feel that when the will of the majority of Parliament has been expressed in clear but meagre numbers, the chatter will be removed and we will move on. I hope that, if I were wrong about this, there will be nothing to assume that the percentage increase will not lead to alcohol harm and we will have to react to it in future governments. In this speech, I would just like to make a proposal for a statement on this report, which has been distributed to the tables and which concerns the necessary direction for distance selling. However, in a somewhat humorous way, I would like to say at the end of that annoyance that I think there are other skills that deprive the decision-making power of the decision-making authority, for example, in alcohol policy: if you have a higher university degree in public health science, it does not weigh anything when you are able to milk, that skill takes away the decision-making ability. What other skills do you think they are? This is the message from the citizens. It is unfortunate that in such matters, which are serious, it is the judgment of the citizens that can be very mean and ugly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u474	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a debate once all the groups have been able to take part in the actual speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u475	Madam Speaker! Indeed, the amendment to the alcohol law has been confusing and, first of all, so that I do not forget it: I support Mr Kiljune's statements, the motion of rejection and also this motion of censure. A motion of censure would not have been put to the vote if this House were to have a proper hearing. During my own career, I do not remember such a bill which was controversial when I came here but whose reading in the Parliamentary Committee was not respected enough to have even heard in writing the experts presented by the Members of Parliament. So far I had imagined that the MPs had the right to have the experts they consider necessary. Another strange point was that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, but in particular the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were not included in this law. Third, that this will be brought here late in the evening so that no one has been able to study it and will be dealt with here at three o'clock in the morning. And the fourth point is that it has been brought back to this Chamber as a report as a matter of urgency without any proper justification for binding it on the tax law to which it is now intended. So none of this kind of proper urgency for this alcohol law was there. The aim of the Alcohol Act is to reduce consumption, and it is a little sad that the government justifies this law by increasing consumption. This has also, of course, not been influenced by expert opinions, which agree that consumption will increase and be accompanied by disadvantages. We have probably all received feedback that they do not believe in these things, and I have tried to write my own contributions to at least some people, that I could not believe if I was just looking at my own neighborhoods or my neighborhoods where I am walking or something else. But when we have Finland As a Nordic country, a regular alcohol survey has started in the 40s — not for a hundred years — and we have information that, when decisions have been made that access has been facilitated or the price has been reduced, it is always — not ‘blackened’, but — consumption hasincreased. It may be that now overnight Finnish culture and Finnish people have changed so much that this will not happen, but almost a hundred years of history will prove this. That is why I find it a little sad to underestimate all that knowledge from the experts. And even the experts have gathered the knowledge and did not suspect, but, after the decisions that have been made, the consequences have been established. As noted just now, when the price of alcohol was lowered, the feeling that it could produce 600 more deaths came true. And now it is written that there are supposed to be 150 more alcohol - related deaths and 1,500 more health - care days. There is also a need for those police officers and child welfare workers. And the fact that, despite some interest in passing these facts, it is still difficult to understand, because the feedback that I have received so far is so far that all those who want to enjoy these stronger products will be able to find them even now in the shops where they are available for sale. It hasn't been overwhelming. I understand and know that there are many good things in this law, as was the case with the Administrative Committee, but this point is quite incomprehensible. The impact on employment will come true, but not for the business community, as it is expected that jobs will be reduced on the part of restaurants as people move home or on the street to drink because it is available at the market and at the kiosk. On the other hand, that increase comes on the side of the police, child welfare workers, nurses and other workers. Another comment in the feedback was that it has not been taken into account that older people are drinking more and more. Unfortunately, it has been taken into account, and it is also visible in the everyday lives of home service workers as an almost daily increase in accidents, accidents in homes, increased confusion due to the combined use of alcohol and medicines, and so on. This is true, for which I am very sorry, but it is also something we want to add. I just hope that the Finnish alcohol culture will change, but since it has not changed much in the first 100 years, I doubt it will happen overnight.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u476	At this point, we will take Mr Kiuru and Mr Henriksson's speeches, and then we will have the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u477	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Mr Heikkinen's statement, which has been distributed to the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u478	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi ricksdagsledamoter är valda för att stifta lagar, inte för att fly ansvar. Vi är också valda för att vi ska reda på tillräckligt, så att vi får en lagstiftning som är tydlig och klar. Vi är inte valda för att Hindra andra ledamöter från att få all den relevant information man behöver. Värderade Talman! Jag är mycket bekymrad över läget med lagstiftningsproceduren och nivån just nu rui i riksdage. För det vi har sett den Senaste veckan är inte värdigt Finlands ricksdag.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u479	Mr President! That is where Mr Niikko made a rather special speech a moment ago, in which he accused the whole of Parliament of being intoxicated. That's a pretty big accusation. You should have just talked about your own condition and let others talk about their own condition. Personally, I have not enjoyed a hint of this important task of the people. Then tell me the names if you have any information that some drunk people are working. I voted in that vote in accordance with conscience, which has also been called into question here. I had the opportunity to say whether I wanted to vote in favour of 5.5 or 4.7, and I personally concluded that this proposal by the central ministers of the government of Juha Sipilä is a good and worthy whole which I supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u480	Mr President! Let us now, Mr Heinonen, finish this debate right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u487	Now let's focus on the alcohol issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u488	Mr President! Here earlier in the evening, a representative, whether it was now the group chairman of the Finns of Peru, said on two occasions that he did not believe the experts — he did not believe the experts. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of faith. If this were the case, we would not believe the experts, then why do we even use the experts in committee hearings? Why do we use them, and why did the government parties not want to hear more experts at the end? Is it because they did not want to hear the truth? After last week's vote, it has also begun to contest the scientific competence and expertise of an internationally important research institute on the public health effects of alcohol. We've heard it tonight. I very much wonder what this new culture is being brought to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u489	Mr President! Of course, I was annoyed by this appreciation of the experts or by the lack of appreciation of the experts, but also by the lack of appreciation of the Parliament. The matter was brought in in such a hurry, and when it was widely discussed, it was also noted that there were runaway defects inside, which then mainly related to this question of distance selling. The bill itself contains a number of points on which one can agree, and things that have been happy to promote along the way. It is a good thing that they are now in the law, but the bill itself as a whole would certainly not have gone through Parliament after proper consultation of experts. I can't believe it. However, when I heard from the representative of the Assembly that there were so-called free hands in the assembly, those hands were not very quick, because two of your representatives did not have time to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u490	Mr President! As this debate follows, we cannot escape the idea that this law has not gone very far. Sometimes I feel that this law has been passed by the Panimoliitto or something like that. In this regard, I would like to point out, in particular, the inappropriate way in which the Federation of the Brewing Party approach us parliamentarians, to whom I also gave my own feedback and defended the Christian Democrats, even though I do not support your initiative on this percentage of alcohol. But I am always in favour of a proper debate and a proper speech. I see now that we are trying to fix a problem that does not exist. At least in my own political career, no Finn has come to open up about not getting alcohol or having problems with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u493	Mr President! We must agree with those who believe that there is extremely bad legislation that this issue of distance selling was left open.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u496	Mr President! I would have liked to have heard the answer to it now — in fact, there is a type of dog buried — whether they have the aim of breaking the Alko monopoly. Is that the goal that's on top of this? Why can't this be regulated? Mr Zyskowicz, you know as well as I that what is not in the law is not in the law,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u499	Mr President! I take particular care about two things. The first point is that of dealing with this issue and how to deal with experts. It seems that in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health it had already been decided in the first place how to pass this bill. The experts were heard by dozens, they were heard by us, but their opinions and expertise were of no relevance. It was like a play, farce. The second point on which I have a great deal of concern, which relates to this debate, is how we deal with the Constitutional Committee at the moment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is a special committee in many respects, in which case the committees should in particular be able to respond to the comments of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No position has been taken on them. Thirdly, in relation to this content, the content of this alcohol law: we have not taken a clear position precisely because of its lack of expert consultation. They're all for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u500	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I shall now address this question of the Constitutional Committee. This is a major concern if, time and again, Parliament ignores the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on a matter. It has happened over the past two and a half years, which I have already represented, several times already, and it is a really relevant question of what the value of the Constitutional Committee is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u501	Mr President! Briefly, the argument for an increase in the percentage of alcohol that rural areas benefit from the fact that support for the vitality of rural areas is an ulterior motive, among other things. It is rather sad and short-sighted and narrow-sighted to think that this is the case, because the big reason for the depopulation of the countryside is the bachelors who play a much too big role in life. There's a partner who hasn't got a partner, life control goes away. Well, that's more deserting the countryside than getting booze there. Then there is the second point about the cultivation of barley. I think it is the Polish farmers who will benefit from it. Many real small breweries have found that when this change comes, foreign companies are the ones with the products and huge shelves. I'm afraid I do. And then, Mr Järvinen: where were you on Friday when this was voted on?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u502	Mr President! Actually, that's the reason I'm not here on Friday. That's the reason why I showed up today. I was here when the vote was supposed to be, but unfortunately I had agreed several weeks earlier to go to an event that had been advertised in the paper, and I was forced to leave here when suddenly the government wanted a 20-minute think-out when it had to vote. I was prepared to vote, but I didn't get the chance. Why did the government do this? I hope for an answer, Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u503	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here about committee experts, and they are making predictions about how many people can die if four cells enter stores. But when you think of the fact that the percentage of alcohol is going to rise by 17% today, that the price difference between beer number three and four will be quite a lot, 50 cents, which means that there can be a difference of about 50%, then those problem users will still drink where the price-promille ratio is better for them. But if the stick is much, much cheaper than the four cells, then those problem users will continue to drink the stick. But I do believe that those problem users drink them pretty strong. Let us take an example from us in Lahti: yes, these problem users, who are such people on the edge of the shops where the Alko — where they pick up the best way to get your head mixed up. I don't think there's any way that this four-cell thing, with a 0.8 percentage point increase,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u504	Mr President! This is precisely one of the most misunderstood points of this law. The health effects are not only for those who consume much alcohol but for those who already use it. This is the biggest distortion of image that has been attempted to drive through this all the time. And if you read the expert reviews — I hope, Members of Parliament, you have read, we have heard experts for many months — then you can find out there that these images that we have been fed have nothing to do with the facts and the facts. Then it must be said that Mr Heinonen said that he had the freedom to vote according to his conscience. Mr Heinonen, you are in a very special position in your own group, congratulations on that, because last week we were told here at the mouth of several Members of Parliament that there are no free hands on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u507	Mr President! Mr Kari said earlier that there were two representatives who did not have time to vote. One I do not know, but I know of myself: I was in the Chamber and did not vote. So I abstained from voting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u508	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u510	Mr President! Sustainable development, sustainable well-being, policy coherence, care for the well-being of children, decisions based on research knowledge. How many times have we heard such speeches in this Chamber? Where are the talks, where are the works when this is to be done? Indeed, things have happened in this house that I never, just as Mr Henriksson said, would have liked to see or know what is happening in the Finnish Parliament House in a legislative situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u511	Mr President! Among other things, there has been talk here that alcoholics can get their alcohol and medium beer can drink more. It is true, but it is also about the process by which some people then become alcoholics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u513	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u515	Mr President! To begin with, it is rare for you to really drink until three in the morning just to talk about it. [Laughter] Here, too, I was beginning to get confused again by this conscience debate, when last Thursday here, with a very loud voice, for example, the group leader of the Coalition Party, Jokinen, felt that there was no free hand here and that there was nodling about the assembly box, and now Mr Heinonen here says that everyone had the freedom to vote just how he wanted to vote. And then, when Mr Kiuru here very well opened up that everyone had the freedom to vote, but still it seems that some people were forced to abstain, it does seem to me that this has now been kept quite strict as to how the group works there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u516	Mr President! It has been said in this Chamber today that it is not believed in the comments and statements of experts on these increasing diseases and deaths, especially those resulting from this consumption. The question is: who should be consulted here and where should decision-making be based? The country's leadership itself has stated that Finland should be guided by information and that decision-making must be based on transparency in addition to information, but there seems to be no room for information, transparency or expertise in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u517	Mr President! There were questions about the consistency of the government. After all, the government has been extremely consistent in this very dismantling of standards. In this Chamber, everyone will certainly agree that standards have also been abolished in connection with this alcohol law. The only question that seems to be causing the conflict here is this increase in the percentage limit, an ultra-moderate increase. On the other hand, when we have a situation in which we will then increase the alcohol tax by 100 million, it will be the first time in Finland’s history that total consumption would rise after the alcohol tax has been raised, so we will be interested to see how it will turn out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u518	At this point, I would like to add the following to the debate: Mrs Huovinen, Mr Henriksson, Mr Heinonen and Mr Östman, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u519	Mr President! This previous speech referred to the fact that the government has been consistent in this proposal with regard to deregulation. It may be that progress has been made in this proposal, just as progress has been made in the presentations on the table last season, many of which, fortunately, have ended up in this proposal. But the reason why the alcohol law is being enacted here is precisely to reduce the harm caused by alcohol — it reads in this bill as the very first line — and it must be mirrored against that background. When we look at it this way and listen to a wide range of experts, which have, of course, been submitted to the committee for consultation, their opinions have not been appreciated. And this is what we have wanted in this debate to draw attention to and hope for answers as to why this kept us here for the dark hours of the night at all — as we are again late this evening —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u520	Mr President! For the RKP, transparency, democracy and the rule of law are important principles. We live in the rule of law, and then it is important that when laws are enacted, we know the consequences they will have. I have still not received an answer to this question on Alko's monopoly position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u521	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u522	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u523	Mr President! It is certainly not the Alko Monopoly that is being dismantled; that is not the issue here. We have been in favour of a more European alcohol policy, and we in the party's line have been prepared to increase the alcohol limit in trade, and we have acted accordingly. At least I have always had the knowledge that I had the opportunity to tell you if you are not prepared to support this percentage, as suggested by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government. This is the kind of information I had, and I acted accordingly. It was not difficult for me to act on this proposal, as I considered this to be a very balanced whole. But I would have liked to know, as Mr Zyskowicz asked, which expert was in favour of the removal, when the government argued that the papers of the wrong person should not be used to deceive people when buying in a restaurant or in a shop.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u524	Mr. Speaker! There are still those in favour of this increase in the percentage that does not believe in experts. The direct cost of alcohol to society is already around EUR 1.1 billion per year, and these calculations do not take into account indirect costs caused by alcohol, such as absence from work or falling productivity on hangover days. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe the statistics? Do you believe these statistics, which can also be found on the THL website when you do not believe in these THL scenarios? One scenario for THL is that consumption of alcohol would increase by 6 % with this decision, and an increase of 6 % in alcohol mortality would mean 145 more alcohol-related deaths per year. Ladies and gentlemen, do you still not believe the experts of the THL?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u525	There were so many targeted questions here that I would like to give two more replies to the representatives of Mr Kiljunen and Mrs Wallinheimo, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u526	Mr President! I'm not in charge of the government party proposal. You can ask them yourself. It's a government proposal. But I answer Mrs Wallinheim’s concern when she wondered how alcohol alone could lead to an increase in alcohol consumption. It's not just about raising the percentage of alcohol... [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u529	Mr President! First of all, the representative It should be pointed out to the screamer that these are not strong alcohols, we are talking about mild alcohols. Yes, the increase in spirits is also significant in Alko, they receive 90,000 extra hours of sales time. No one seems to be criticizing it. That's when they actually sell more booze and liquor. Secondly, for Mr Östman: THL has not actually assessed the shift in consumption between different sales channels — Alko, grocery trade, passenger imports, etc. — has at least not been able to provide quantified estimates of the so-called cross-relationships of distribution channels when asked. The following extract from the message received from THL, now comes the quote: "There are several reasons why we have not left. Firstly, all research literature, the price of intermediate mechanisms, physical availability and so on, is a net effect and does not concern the transitions between sales channels. In view of cross-flexibility, the economic survey estimated a significantly smaller increase in total consumption
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u530	And now we return to the list of speakers. I would point out that this matter has already been dealt with for 8 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u531	Mr President! The increase in the percentage limit of alcohol sold in the store has now been increasing for a long time, and now that the reform of the alcohol law has been brought into this Chamber, the ‘ban law covenant’ has since presented a rejection of the reform. I do not want to continue with the soft prohibition law, and I am in favour of raising the percentage limits. At the same time, I also support the statements made by Mrs Juvose, which she made in her excellent speech. It is good to have more special beers in the store now. In recent years special beers have increased a lot on shelves there — you can see, there are meters of them — and now we have more of them. Many beers require fermentation so that they are something 5%, and thus the moderates who want to enjoy them have more options now to taste them. At the same time, this also puts trades on the same line, equal. In the past, those with Alko in their corner have been better off. Many have chosen to go to the store according to what is next to Alko, that we go to the same gig when we buy the food, that wine from there. Now you can at least get a little bit to go that way. Those A-beers, special beers, they're in the store.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u533	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u534	Mr President! Alcohol clearly shares opinions here in Parliament, and even more so it distributes in fact in the public feedback which I am sure each of us has received in favour of regulation or a liberalised system as well as against it. The percentages of alcohol sold in the store and the government's proposal for an alcohol law or a reform of it can be justified either way. Some of us stress the reduction of the human harm caused by public health and alcohol and the increase in social costs, including police and child protection costs. That is why this group wants to emphasise a reduction in consumption, and it has traditionally been influenced most by two factors: price and availability. There is a considerable increase in access to this law. [of the Socialist Group :Jahtina! ] Others rightly and rightly emphasise individual freedom, freedom to choose things that are harmful to themselves. Another priority may be trade or industrial policy, and a more liberal alcohol policy benefits part of the business community, not all. Both policies are fully justified by representatives and are called democracy. But it would be honest to take into account the cost of decisions. Both the Minister for the Interior here in the Chamber and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, who presented the law, have clearly said that if this legislative reform is implemented, more money will be needed for the police, health care, child protection and many other things. But this cost impact has been forgotten in this debate in the context of the liberal debate, and I hope that next year, when we get the first amending budget, if this is now adopted tomorrow in the vote, we will also have an amending budget that fills these gaps, which will result in both the social side and the public sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u535	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u536	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u537	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u538	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u539	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u540	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u541	Mr President! There are many vague points in this process. What's back there? One, of course, is the desire of adult people to be comfortable. It is true that it is more convenient to buy a stronger one in a nearby shop or kiosk, but a lot more than 90 per cent of all Finns are very close, within a few kilometres of Alko, so there is no problem in Finland that every Finn does not get the drink he wants. European drinking culture has been mentioned and referred to. I understand that quite a few European countries are looking at the Nordic countries, and they are also looking at Finland as to how it has been regulated here. And Sweden, our neighbouring country, has in fact been very concerned about the decision of the Finns if this bill on alcohol is progressing, and rather have been suggesting to us that a mild beer for shops, the others for Alkoo. You can't drink enough mild beers to get drunk the way you get drunk from a four - cell. It's a fact that's been studied. There is another European issue relating to drinking culture that I would really like to see landed here: it is very reprehensible to appear in public at public events. That is one reason why they also see to it that no matter how many drinks there are, even strong ones, there are no drunks there because it is reprehensible. But then I would say to the citizens who are following me that I think it would be good for the citizens now to look closely at what their representatives are doing, how they are doing. We have had a clear majority of experts who were of the opinion that this legislative package should not be taken forward. We now have a large number of parliamentarians who reject the opinion of experts, not just opinions, but research results, and vote quite differently. I really wish the delegates would think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u542	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi behandlar som bast ett lagförslag som flera ka utskotsutsutlåtanden har förhållit sig kritiskt till. De i och för sig goda målen med lagen har i beredningen helt glömts bort eller negligerats. De flesta sakkunniga har befarat en stor negativ inverkan på folkhälsan om volymprocenten höjs till 5.5 i dagligvaruhandeln.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u543	Mr President! Indeed, this whole alcohol law has been under discussion for probably ten hours, and many things have been said. But to one detail, I will take a position on these police resources. We in the Administrative Committee, during the hearing on the matter, raised the fact that, as a result of the amendment to the Alcohol Act, the police felt that they needed 170 man-years of work to carry out an increasing number of tasks. The cost for these 170 person-years is around EUR 10 to 15 million. And when I say that 170 police years go by with this change in the situation brought about by the alcohol law, I would remind you that we have 7200 police officers at the moment, and it has also been said several times in this Parliament that this amount is far too little in relation to the security situation and the proper performance of police duties. Now, however, we can afford, to say, to waste 170 man-years of work on the fact that police officers are on duty and are doing drunken work at the ends of the restaurants between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The police statement specifically marked this time as the amount of extra work that this reform of the alcohol law will create. In the same context, the police pointed out the growth of the grey economy and the risk that this amendment to the law will have to do with the growth of this grey economy, and the fact that, in Sweden, for example, similar experiences with the informal economy and organised crime in the tasks carried out around the restaurant industry have been examples that have already been realised in Sweden. I hope that the government will now, even after the entry into force of this legislation, give serious concern to monitor police resources, the increase in police duties. This situation is not a desirable situation for the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u544	Mr President! First of all, I must share Mrs Kari's concern about the adequacy of the police after this alcohol legislation, because this, which has been the cause of concern, is entirely true of what was said in the Administrative and Security Section in the past that we will not be able to complete all the study places, because there are not enough students who meet the criteria for police training. The last time I saw 400 people, they were about 70. Now, after this legislation on alcohol, they should also have 70 more police officers trained in order to keep up with the standard, and this will not happen for many years. This is an honest confession. This is one example of where alcohol law leads. I think it is a little dishonest for voters to make such speeches here that they say that there is no effect on practically any of this 0.7% increase. Not only does it make it a problem, but all the other legislation that comes alongside it — not to forget that, with this government proposal, we have also continued to extend the time allowed for the drinks of restaurants until 4 p.m., and in the future the restaurants will be open for 24 hours, but the drinks will stop at 4 p.m. . Mr President! Alcohol Disadvantages: Human suffering and increased health damage did not weigh much on that side of the horizontal cup, when you have been opposite this kind of populism, wooing voters. I say this because this is a manna for people who do not recognize the content of this side effects: everyone likes it when they talk about getting alcohol more easily and getting it more cheaply and preferably unlimitedly. However, a welfare society has been built and built in such a way that the weak are cared for and lived up to what is known as a weaker link. It certainly does not make it hard for me or for many of us to have to limit our own comfort zone in our own lives so that we can improve the overall benefit for others. Alcohol law is precisely about the welfare of children and the well-being of families, and about the adverse effects on families where the high consumption of alcohol is fully true. At present there are about 600,000 people who have a serious problem with alcohol consumption. In that sense, it is the subject of so many hours of discussion. Mr President! Let me return to the previous debate where this decision-making was debated in this Chamber. I have never said here that there are intoxicated speeches or something else, but I have said that we have been involved in decision-making when we are intoxicated, and that is absolutely true. It's not the first time. This was also the case during the last parliamentary term — if only you who sat here during the last parliamentary term remember this. We even had situations where some got intoxicated and talked and got to the news as well. I do not think it is appropriate for Parliament's authority to have Christmas parties at the same time as there are sittings here. Could we review this tradition a little in the future and move those Christmases to another day or later? Of course, in this Chamber, the tradition has now been that the opposition will then invent these voting moments here until the small hours on the same day as this Christmas party. But the opposition is not to blame; it has not brought any proposals to these days, such as the treatment of this alcohol law, at the same time here one if another thrives around the glass. This does not mean that I would blame anyone under any circumstances. I can't afford to moralize anyone who drinks or who doesn't — get it out of me. I'm just saying that I don't think it's the best idea for anyone, that journalists together with representatives here are having wet nights and then those journalists are taking advantage of the situation and producing the news about us. I don't think that's very wise. Mr President! One objection in the previous reading concerned Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure. In the government's proposal, the import and distance selling of alcoholic beverages would be changed. However, this cross-border distance selling of alcoholic beverages is so serious that the government could have taken it into account in the Friday vote. This concern on the part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the law remains contradictory is justified. In this respect, I fully understand the rejection of Mr Tanus' proposal and also the rejection of the Social Democrats and of everyone other than our party. In our party we now have the so-called free hands here, and then in our party each of us, for his part, will draw its own conclusions with regard to this vote. I myself will support the rejection of this bill, precisely because of this lack of law drafting. Furthermore, it is not possible to overlook the way in which Parliament's authority is regarded as cheap: a 200-page presentation from the committee a few hours before the hearing, which no one had time to get to know in any way. This is not a good legislative procedure, and I hope that each of us, on this basis alone, will start to wonder whether this should simply be re-introduced by rejecting the entire legislative proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u545	Mr President! I understand that it is a pity that this debate is taking almost ten hours, but when I was not in the vote on Friday and I was not able to discuss it on Thursday, I would now like to tell you once again that my absence from Friday's vote was not a strategic or deliberate absence in itself but was simply a result of time constraints. On Monday, I made sure that the vote would take place well before 11 and I was told that this would happen, well you could take the train after 11. No one anticipated that the government parties would suddenly take a 20-minute period of reflection, and as a result of this pause, I had to rush to the train for an event for which there had been newspaper announcements and for which arrangements had been made for a long time. I'm sorry about this. However, I promise to be there tomorrow when the vote takes place. We Greens have also been accused of turning our coats, but not of myself, for I have already stated my position very clearly on the electoral machine, but I must confess that I have had to change my mind over the years, albeit before the last election. Actually, my own change of heart is the most important reason for my having two very close people who I personally had to drag into a forced detachment. The other is a family member, and it seemed that I was the only person with a few drinks to do anything in the situation. I got him to go to the hospital, and he's thanked me for it afterwards. One is a good friend of mine, for whom the situation may not have been quite as happy. Of course, he too has managed to control his drinking, but it is really helpless and dismal to watch how close people lose their own friends, their jobs, their memories, almost their whole lives. Overall, I find this much worse than the fact that people who use alcohol intelligently will have to continue to get their drinks from Alko. But when we talk about alcohol, we talk about a substance that has a pretty big role to play. It is the most common cause of death for people of working age, it costs us billions of euros a year, and half a million Finns suffer from mental health, health or accident damage, almost one in ten of us, and few understand this scale. Every Finn over 15 years of age uses an average of about 10 litres of pure alcohol per year, about 10 litres — that is, each. One doctor has claimed that if Finns did not start drinking alcohol until they were 25 years old, half of the hospitals in Finland and two thirds of social services offices could be closed down. I don't know if the scale is right, but that's what he's telling me. When statistics show that 10% of people use 90% of alcohol, we easily say that yes, this group is the one who gets their alcohol from anything: no matter how freed it is, there is no need to worry about it anymore. But it's more than that. At the same time, we have 500,000 high-risk consumers of alcohol in this country, and when I talked about this with a working occupational doctor, he kindly said in the eyes that Heli, a particularly high-risk group, is precisely middle-aged, educated, working women. Well said, I humbly took a mirror in my hand, although I do not yet profess to be a risk consumer of alcohol. But I do confess that I'm sure I'm one of the people with that kind of risk. Here's a direct quote from a doctor: "They were no bridgeshipsmen who filled out hospital emergency services. They were working fathers and mothers who were intoxicated, hurt themselves, fought, and engaged in marital strife. They're filling up our duty." This is what Kaarlo Simojoki said in an interview with Helsingin Sanomat in time. There are a lot of good things in this government bill. I am delighted to allow the breweries to sell out, I am glad to make things easier for restaurants, and I can't even be so worried about bringing soda wine to stores, because for years the sodas have been in stores in all the colors of the rainbow: blue, red, green and yellow. But, as I said, I fear that in this way we will correct a small problem in a way that threatens to exacerbate even more the bill of billions on the harmful effects of alcohol, and that is why I cannot support this bill tomorrow. I will support Mr Kiljunen's motion of censure and the rejection of this bill. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I could have been. I wanted to say this out loud. And one more thing I have not heard in this debate. There is one thing in which I could even be more transparent than the government in this reform. There is one problem with Finnish alcohol production that I have not heard of: we have a lot of good wine producers, we have a lot of small breweries, but they have a big problem with how they can market their products abroad. When alcoholism has become a global hiphism — many, thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands, millions of people who want to enjoy just one particular variety or specialties — it would be understandable that these breweries would be given the opportunity to market their products on the English pages. Now that is not possible, and for Finland it certainly means a loss of at least millions of euros in sales revenue. I would have been prepared to release these English marketing pages, which certainly do not make any Finns ill with alcoholism in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u546	Mr President! In the context of the debate on alcohol, not so much in this Chamber but outside, much has been said about individual freedom. Human freedom is an absolute value. Man’s freedom is an absolute value even when, and perhaps especially when he decides to use it foolishly. Man’s freedom is an absolute value even when he uses it to his own harm. To a certain extent, human freedom is an absolute value even when it costs us others, because otherwise what freedom would it be? It is precisely for this reason that the absolute value of freedom is such a challenge for decision-makers, because by definition it allows people to do what they want, not what I want. That is why, as a rule, the Left Alliance as a Party for Freedom is always in favour of individual freedom, and I personally often do, even when the Left Alliance is not. Mr President! That is not what this is about today. This is about the freedom, individual freedom, the freedom of people who do not want to fool around and who do not want to be harmed, the hundreds, perhaps thousands, thousands of Finns who have the greatest sorrows and traumas of their lives associated with the consumption of alcohol by someone else. With a quick scan of my loved ones, more than half of them are. If alcohol had not been invented in this country, more than half of my loved ones would have lived a happier life until now than they have now lived. Surely everyone present in this Chamber knows someone for whom this applies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u547	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u548	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u549	Mr President! Excellent speeches have already been made on this subject and I myself will not repeat what I have already said in the debate at first reading on this content of the law. But I would like to underline that, in my view, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on the Pronunciation have done a thorough job here, and it is therefore extraordinary that this Chamber decided to disagree with the Committee of Experts on this percentage. President! However, I would like to comment on two more points. The second is perhaps more of an observation in this debate today that alcohol, and in particular alcohol harm, is only a problem for large consumers. Just as the above was already shown in a very wise way, alcohol affects many people besides those who drink it and who get into trouble or cause difficulties. Furthermore, I would like to stress that, when the overall consumption is estimated to rise in this proposal and in the report, it will mean that there will be more of those large consumers, and unfortunately, when this percentage issue was decided here, it is assumed that more and more ordinary Finns will become people who cannot pass the beer shelf in the store without buying beer. This creates the dependence, and this creates problems which, unfortunately, many, not all but many, will then get worse and become more difficult to get out of. Let us not now give the impression in this debate that it is something small and the same number of people we are talking about. I would also like to say, Mr President, that this debate around this issue has been so confusing for years, that when, for example, we talk very often in this Chamber and sigh at big economic issues and, especially from that President's point of view, on the right side of the Chamber, we are very concerned, like the Finance Minister's Party, about how the state economy will endure various things, at the same time we are doing legislative changes here, which, according to all estimates, lead to an increasing expenditure on society. When I was able to prepare this matter myself last season, I said very often that I would very much like to take over EUR 1 billion as a direct cost, for example, for the problems of Finnish child protection or care for the elderly. I would have liked to have used that money, but now we are not just putting a single point on something billion, but probably larger sums on these disadvantages. I want to know where the money comes from. It is very interesting to hear how the government parties will explain this financial responsibility over the next few years and decades. When attempts were made here in the recent debate to claim that this assessment by the THL does not prove it and that it does not prove it, we have global organisations that state that there are two factors affecting the increase in total consumption in particular: one is price and the other is availability. It is not in this Chamber, my friends, that this black and white is spoken of, no matter how you feel about it or this or that. President! Finally, I shall address the way in which this matter is dealt with. I, too, have been in this Parliament for a year now and I would like to say quite frankly that this is an exceptional reading. Firstly, the committee had requested that the expert hearings could have been continued. It was not extended by decision of the government parties. We Members of Parliament, who were not members of any committee who might have wanted to follow up on this issue, received this report. I, too, was on that curved corridor with my hand out when the paper would be brought in so that you could read it. Warm, but two or three hours earlier before the conversation started here. It is neither appropriate nor honorable in the Finnish Parliament [Department :Actually! ] However, the worst thing, President, is that I feel as I am now following this debate that the political agendas are seriously deteriorating. Indeed, it seems that there have been very serious difficulties in some quarters in deciding what is to be said about the alcohol monopoly in this country. It seems that there has been an attempt to drive two wheels on this big, big issue, and I am referring here to this missing section that we talked about last week, which, for political reasons, disappeared from this bill. I just hope, President-in-Office, that we will not have to come back or you will not have to come back to this later by saying that a monopoly has been lost by accident. This is a far-reaching and unpredictable decision that has now been taken. This represents a major risk to public health and the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u550	Mr President! When we got the alcohol law to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I decided not to lock up in advance but to listen to experts there. So I tried to be as objective as possible in advance, because I too would like to think that alcohol is a fun and harmless and well - being substance. It would be even nicer to share this same message with people and gain popularity through it. But after listening to the experts for several months, I cannot stand up to the fact that, as a decision maker, I do not study the facts and make my decisions, sometimes unpleasant ones, on the basis of them. When the police say, as Mr Kari said, that 170 more police officers are needed if this law comes into force, and when I specified and asked the committee for more, the police said that they will have to press the police in the future to work in the areas where there are restaurants, away from the remote areas, and on those shifts that are at night, and they said straight away that it would then be something else, that is the safety of the Finns, and if the Federation of Child Welfare says that every tenth child is already living in a family where the use of parental intoxicants causes acute or permanent disadvantages — every tenth child, count from this Chamber of Representatives, too, how many of them, based on this statistics, would have a glassy childhood — so I cannot take it on my responsibility. If it is said that absenteeism increases because 39 % of those in work are large consumers of alcohol — for example, UPM estimates that 25 % of absenteeism is caused by alcohol — and results in a loss of some EUR 2 billion for society, I believe that the responsible decision-maker must also take account of financial losses if these human losses are not, as it were, serious enough. But for me, the main reason is these health reasons. It was a new piece of information I heard from cancer doctors, too. Of course, I have known that alcohol is a carcinogen that causes harm, but it was new that alcohol is a major cause of cancer and the risk of cancer increases according to lifetime use. This argument has been used here as well, but those large-scale consumers of alcohol are the ones who then risk it, and the majority of people are non-major consumers — ladies and gentlemen, when that is not the case. Whether you take a single glass in a night and are a European user or if you take a dump once a week does not predict the risk of cancer, for example, but the amount of alcohol consumed throughout your life correlates with that risk of cancer. There is also no safety limit for disease, which means that a single daily dose increases the risk of cancer. This is an important point when we look at how tobacco was discussed in the past. With regard to tobacco, it was only the legal struggle that caused the court to claim that tobacco was not harmful to health that brought the charge of perjury. I now think that if we here, as it were, claim that alcohol does not cause health damage or that it is only the major consumers who suffer the health damage, we are not in court, but as parliamentarians and legislators we are also obliged to speak the truth, and I would ask the parliamentarians to check these facts at this point. Well, then, when discussing alcohol policy and the health implications of its changes, the effects of cancer are ignored. It was also new to me that health effects, i.e. the health effects of alcohol on alcohol diseases, are only recorded through these alcohol diseases and are not taken into account for public health effects, for example the risk of cancer, when we actually ignore the effect of alcohol on cancers. When we have spoken here that everyone knows, either through his own or his loved one’s experience, someone who suffers from a drinking problem, we certainly all know someone who suffers from cancer — if we have not even had cancer ourselves. And all the measures that I can at least do to help our citizens to reduce the risk of cancer, I have to do to be honest with myself. Then I would like to say two things, Mr President. The second is that, at some point, I would like to see Parliament and parliamentarians wondering, as it were, what effect we have on image advertising. We heard in committee a very detailed explanation of how the tobacco industry once influenced people's perceptions of tobacco and how the alcohol industry, on an international scale, also had its own messages and thus its image. One message has been precisely this, that drinking is normal and abstaining is abnormal, that total consumption does not increase the disadvantages, because a small number of abnormals are responsible for the disadvantages, and that consumer education works better than regulation, even though all studies actually say otherwise. In Finland, among other things, 2012 "Would you like to drink less?" -the campaign, which was therefore an external advertising and facebook campaign, and it was intended to question it, as it were, if alcohol image advertising were banned, and to influence people's opinions as to whether it would make any difference. The campaign has also been designed to influence us with the idea that overregulation exists at the moment, and the 'Forbidden World' was an example of the construction of a support force for the alcohol industry and the tobacco industry across the boundaries of the interest groups by using inter-industry cooperation — a campaign of this kind. These are not my statements, therefore, but those of an expert who heard in committee, who also stopped me to think where my thoughts and ideas came from. Finally, I think that the question of Alko's monopoly is so important that when we had discussions in committee on several occasions, in which I myself asked if you could clarify how the government has internally agreed on this, whether the government is unanimous in maintaining Alko's monopoly, I did not get an answer to it. I tried to do so several times, because it turned out from all the debate that there is no uniform decision but that we are trying to make a decision on both sides, and that is the end result. Well, then, when we voted here on Friday, I have since been able to read in the papers that, in fact, it was in fact the intention within the government that Alko's monopoly could be broken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u551	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u552	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u553	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi är inne på tredje tinn av den rai debatten, och vi har försökt få svar på frågor rai av regeringsledamöternna, men vi har inte fått några svar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u554	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here today and, as I pointed out in my own speech, these health problems and particularly cancer, so it is quite true what the experts say, and it is also read everywhere that, of course, cancer is a disease with alcohol, and when it is added to obesity, there will be more risk, unhealthy lifestyles, still tobacco, and of course everyone will have an impact on everything. But that information is important, and I do not think there is enough information about the link between alcohol and breast cancer, for example. I myself asked the expert how it was possible to find out and prove that alcohol and breast cancer, for example, have a connection. Of course, it is not only possible from any studies to see that this is the reason, but it can be determined from interviews and surveys, and there are similarities. It is very important that, in the same way as there are warnings in a packet of tobacco, so too could there be alcohol in some way somewhere — whether it is Alko or a store or anyone who informs and warns. But for this remote sale: I mean, it's really like something's buried in there. Maybe there's someone in the business seed thinking that when you have this kind of open space, so it's like an open big window is left open. No one really knows what's going on. The explanatory statement prohibits, but the section allows. After all, the strange situation is that we are making legislation, but we do not know what we are actually deciding. I have to say, as a process, I don't give you many points for this. Long hearings, more than 60 experts have been heard, and then papers have been added, so we have heard a lot. But let me say that sometimes I have been knocked out when I have presented an expert for consultation. For example, the Geronom Alliance is one that I have repeatedly asked for. There's always a statement on paper. I can't get them on the committee. I hope you will support me the next time I present these expert consultations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u555	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here. Just a few more things I would have liked to have picked up. The question has been raised as to why alcohol causes it and this health effect, and this is the last time alcohol has been referred to as the underlying causes of cancer. When we talk about alcohol as a substance, what it really is, alcohol is a poison of cells. Alcohol is a poison of cells, and the minimum safe dose does not exist with certainty. As the Chief Medical Officer of the A-Clinic Foundation has said, more than 70 percent of his patients are habitually employed, who have just made it a habit to take it after a day’s work, as if without any problem of use, but at some point it says poks, because alcohol is specifically a poison of cells. In that sense, if we think that alcohol would be brought into society today, it would never be authorised. Never with that kind of background information would alcohol be authorised today. Then I would like to say that, of course, legislation should be unambiguous and leave nothing to the courts to interpret, that is clear. But the last thing I would like to raise here is actually what Mr Kontula has made an excellent speech here with regard to children and families with children. One lost childhood is far too high a price to make it easier for adults to buy stronger alcohol on their shopping trip or kiosk. Too many cases have I seen at the emergency clinics, various central hospitals and health centres, too many grieving mothers, fathers, too many suffering children, and I therefore hope that when we vote on this tomorrow, it will become a wreck.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u556	Mr President! After all, the ultimate purpose of this law has been made clear in the course of this evening and this debate at the latest: the monopoly is to be dismantled. It has now been asked here several times by members of the parliamentary group of the Assembly whether the monopoly is to be maintained, but there will be no answer to it. Many times government parties have also called for this article to be difficult to write, but I do think it will be easier to correct it afterwards than to bring a whole new section here to the parliament to prepare for, for which there is not even a common will from the government parties. But, Mr President, so enthusiastically about that toilet I made my speech on this draft law that I forgot to speak in favour. I therefore support all five excellent statements made by Mrs Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u557	Mr President! What I myself voted for last Friday, as proposed by this government, is the whole of this proposal. This 0.8 percent increase in the alcoholic strength sold in that grocery store is at the end of this whole package of laws when viewed. Yes, for me, at least the biggest factor is that this is capable of restaurants
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u558	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u559	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u560	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u561	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u562	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u563	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u564	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Savola that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated that there is a false impression that restaurants would benefit from this overall government proposal, and that it was the experts' view and also the argument that restaurants will suffer from this whole thing. So this image of you in that regard is wrong. I hope that you will read this report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and will take a close look at these before you continue to communicate. The second point is that it is not just about the percentage of alcohol, it is also about the way in which it is produced and the fact that it is expanding from 350 sales outlets to 5000 retail outlets, and then it will expand to 8,000 different outlets. In other words, this availability is going to expand considerably. In shops, beer will be bulky: it is estimated that beer prices will fall by 40 percent. In other words, this has many negative effects, if you could say so, but then, as you have just said for yourself, of course we all support those positive and positive things. But when you look at this from the perspective of the whole, you can still take into account the fact that this debate has been very bad in terms of preparation and very strange in terms of parliamentary procedure. When, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I asked for more to be heard, precisely because of this Alko monopoly, because it came up at the very last mets, the government parties
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u565	Mr President! A proposal for a statement has been presented here today, which has been made by Mr Heikkinen: 'The Parliament requires the Government to clarify the rules on distance selling, taking into account the requirements of Union law and the future solution of the KKO in the case of Visnawood. In the preparation under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, account should be taken, in particular, of the fact that decisions on distance selling must not jeopardise the maintenance of the exclusive right to retail sales of alcoholic beverages beyond the limits laid down by law or the equality of Finnish industry with its foreign competitors. The preparation must also take account of the requirements for the smooth recovery of excise duties." Furthermore, I would like to stress that Alko's monopoly will not be broken. There will be no doors open to wine or strong beers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u566	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u567	Mr President! I will continue with this speech by Mrs Hautala. Indeed, this is Mr Heikkinen's statement, which I have supported in my part. It will then be put to the vote, and I believe that there will be support for this statement from the Group. I hope that it will at least help to dispel the fears associated with Alko's position, and justifiable fears are. This statement also addresses the fact that the operating environment of domestic companies is considered neutral vis-à-vis foreign companies and draws attention to the fact that taxes must then be paid by all operators, whether foreign or domestic. There have been attempts to confuse this debate in various contexts and in many ways. One way of perplexing is that it has been said — i.e. I do not blame the delegates but the public — that the members of the Alko Board of Directors are icy. According to the Constitution, we're not ice sheets. If we were ice brothers, we would not be able to decide, for example, on property tax, because we are all icemen in that regard. So we're definitely not ice sheets. On the other hand, I could be frozen by, for example, owning shares in listed companies that become dividends that may be affected by the change in this alcohol law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u568	Mr President! The monopoly of the Alko will remain. That's for sure. As far as these things are concerned, they'll be fixed, it's 100 percent sure. There is no need for Mr Pekonen or anyone else to worry about it. We want to continue to hold onto Alko's monopoly. As far as access is concerned and what Mr Kiljunen referred to, I think it is only a good thing that access or choice is improved in shops. When you come and go to that countryside, there's no Alkos everywhere. It is the individual’s freedom to choose the beverages he wants to buy. I certainly want to take this drinking culture of ours in the direction that it is a civilized thing to buy the beer that can now be 0.8% stronger than it is at the moment if you want to buy it. I still believe in this whole and that is why I have voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u569	At this point, the debate is no longer open. You can reserve your speeches by pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u570	Mr President! This statement made by representative Hanna-Kaisa Heikkinen is very important. When you read it, it is very similar to the text in our report. When the matter was dealt with and this distance selling became a problem, I myself made a statement in other words in the committee and suggested that the hug could include this statement as a very important issue and, in particular, as a matter of urgency, that the government should act immediately, that this matter of distance selling should be resolved. We really wanted to hear from the SDP whether it was Customs and the shadow economy... [Left: Taxpayer!] But there's a lot of patterns here. We have Christmas coming up, and we all want to run from here to Christmas holidays. At the speed at which we are leaving, this report was also postponed. I do not know whether it would have been such a big deal if we had sat here on Thursday to talk about this again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u571	Mr President! I must say to Mr Savola — he was probably not here in the Chamber last time we talked about that — that I hope now that we will stop appealing to this civilised alcohol culture, because as far as health is concerned, there is no difference between a single glass of wine a day or a once a week of pouring drunks. So it is totally self-deception to say this, that civilised drinking and then this is like a great thing and there will be no harm. This is just the way it is. I, too, would like to believe otherwise, I would like to believe otherwise, but once I have read these statements by experts, I cannot deceive myself or others by using such a saying, which is not true. Well, the second is this Alko monopoly, which is, in fact, terribly important. The representatives of the centre are now very reticently saying that the monopoly is not crumbling at all,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u572	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u573	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u574	Mr President! In fact, I'll take it from here where Mr. Salonen left off. Now, as far as distance selling is concerned, this article has been very unclear, but since then it is actually no longer unclear, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its opinion that there is no concrete ban on distance selling. That means exactly what it sounds like: distance selling is allowed. And that puts Alko's monopoly at risk, and that is what I am very concerned about. Where did Article 32, which was still in the draft law on this particular distance selling, go? It was written in that government bill. It was there when the draft law was in the consultation, but when the draft law came to us in committee as a government proposal, the article had disappeared. That is what we have tried to ask here in Parliament, to find out where and why that section has been deleted, but we have not received an answer to it. And as I said earlier, I still believe that it would have been easier to correct that paragraph if it had been complicated or difficult, but it is difficult to bring it here now, ladies and gentlemen, when you do not have a consensus in the government on whether or not to maintain a monopoly. It is a bit difficult for me to bring back to Parliament if you do not have a kitchen door, which is how you intend to bring this piece of legislation here for approval.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u575	Mr President! I am used to trusting representative Savola and, above all, representative Savola's word. Now the quote on my paper: "It is absolutely certain"—says representativeSavola
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u576	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u577	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u578	Mr President! A missing section has now been sought, and many have referred to this statement which we have here on the table. This is where the government parties are now bringing in a proposal to maintain Alko's monopoly. Here we are talking about where the section went, and this is, of course, the bottom-up-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. But I will go back to another section, which still exists there, § 85. I would also like to turn a little attention now to the business sector and think that we in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will also take very careful note of the way in which rural entrepreneurship can also be supported in this legislative change. In other words, when caterers there have birthdays or weddings in their own premises, they could have taken the partying guest bottle of sparkling wine and offered it there at the party even if they did not have these liquor licenses. This is not what this law now allows. Then, of course, we will come to that, as has been said in public, that we should go to the roadside and take those congratulations. This is ridiculous. Why could this not have been arranged in such a way that this could have been done? There will be no impossible use of imported wine if this could have been done in such banquet places. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to tell the honourable Member that these catering companies, who do not have the right to drink, are now taking on a different property identification number in the summer, and separating them from their premises, so that they can do so. So this is rather strange, and this should have been put right now in this law. The reason why I wanted to bring this up again at this second reading is that we should also take into account the fact that there was quite a lot of red tape here. The whole legislation is different in terms of the different parts of the industry, but small ones like this were left behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u579	Mr President! I would also like to refer to the draft statement I have just read, which Mr Heikkinen has proposed here, and on which Mr Kiuru has expressed the view of the Assembly, and I am told that the blue parliamentary group is behind this. In this context, it is quite unnecessary to talk at all about the collapse of Alko's monopoly. A 0.8% increase in sales of alcoholic beverages will not under any circumstances jeopardise Alko's monopoly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u580	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u581	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u582	Mr President! On that side of the report by Mr StV: we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy do think very seriously about this very aspect of the economy, and quite a bit of it, at least, the records that we presented. One is that which Mr Hakanen raised, for example, this question of catering: can there be a smoke sauna and then beer in any situation, at least alcohol-rich, such as a catering company. The second is the matter of the guardian: one hundred per person always adds them, if we are just talking about seats. One thing was marketing and advertising. It is thought that we need to promote Finnish food exports, and even now Alko must have a marketing agency in Copenhagen, that they are able to market products and sell them outwards to the whole of Europe — that is, good, clean, excellent export products from Finland. Plus, when we look at our new companies, what is out there, for example Kyrö Distillery and similar and our beer breweries, there is still some confusion about this export and marketing, but there is currently a contradiction between the regulation and, at the latest, Valvira. So there will be a lot of contradictions. Then the question of distance selling was one that was discussed. It became clear that, given that Sweden is freer from this distance sales at the moment, there is a larger proportion of home-burning and smuggling more than distance selling at the moment. So it hasn't compromised Systembolaget in any way. This Heikkinen presentation is all right, and I am totally in favour of it, and it is worth exploring, but it is worth considering how it is there. In Sweden, too, distance selling has worked so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u583	Mr President! Just as Mr Pirttilahti said, this legislative package has and remains in the perspective of many unclear points or points or points of doubt or interpretation or bad points, insofar as it is adopted in the vote, despite the fact that red tape has been dismantled and obsolete regulations removed. There will be a lot of such a question mark, and that is why it is good to ask why in the world it will be pushed forward at this rate, so that it will be in force at the beginning of the year, when we know that only a small part of it can actually come into force from the beginning of the year. Well, the next stage has been set three months away, but as we in the committee said, among other things, by Valvira's representative, six months is needed to have all the systems as they should be when the law comes into force. So from this point of view, too, it is very questionable and it has been wondered by many representatives, which is the rush that really does not exist. But then to that statement. In fact, that is why I came back to this when it was read, now that all the government parties have, as it were, signed it and are ready to move on with it, that it is long and varied, when the article that actually disappeared from it is very simple, twelve simple words: "The sale of alcohol beverages at a distance and the import into Finland related to that sale is prohibited." Such a simple, understandable article — in my logic it is much clearer and simpler than that statement. If this article could not be taken forward, how on earth will the action taken in accordance with that statement move forward next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u584	Mr President! I have to say that I am not at peace with this law when it was said from downtown that we are there. This bill will increase alcohol consumption and it will increase consumption most among moderate users and, as experts have said, this increase in alcohol consumption will result in more absenteeism from work, a variety of health problems, such as these cancers, as has been said a great deal here today, but it also causes many other diseases. Similarly, this will increase alcohol consumption, especially among young people and women, and at the moment the most alcohol consumption is increasing for those over the age of 65, and this proposal does not seem to make it any easier either. As far as Sweden is concerned, it has to be said that Sweden is currently thinking specifically about restrictions on this distance selling and is being prepared for the time being. But then I would like to comment on this again when it was said that the centre is sure that the monopoly will remain. However, even today, it has been said at Ben Zyskowicz's mouth that, since distance selling is not punished, we cannot interpret that distance selling is prohibited. And he refers here to the fact that, according to Article 8 of the Constitution, no one may be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act which, at the time of the act, is not punishable by law. Now that there is no distance selling clause, it has not been sanctioned. This debate also reflects the fact that the assembly and the centre still have a different view as to whether distance selling is permitted or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u585	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u586	Mr President! I don't know if it's comforting or inconsolable that the representatives of the Central Party will come to this end of the halls and then throw a little steam at the stove.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u587	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u588	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u589	Mr President! I would now like to add one more question to my earlier speech. Mr Savola mentioned that it is absolutely certain that Alko's monopoly will remain, and Mr Heikkinen has made a proposal which apparently now seeks to ensure this in the interests of certainty. When I asked him if he was using it. Savola, as it were, this statement of faith in this direction towards the opposition, or was it more of a government partner for the assembly, which Mr Kiuru seems to defend with honour in this Chamber, so I ask Mr Kiuru in this connection whether the delegation is behind this proposal for a statement or whether it is just the representative who is behind the proposal for a statement,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u590	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u591	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u592	Mr President! I stayed to think back about the monopoly situation and the history of Alko, how we have lived with this Alko. That is why, when the Prohibition ended, the people decided by referendum that there would be an Alko Monopoly in Finland, where alcohol would be bought, and now it seems that by allowing distance sales this will be broken by the people, that we have Alko's Monopoly. In this situation, I am annoyed that this is yet another route, starting with the possibility of allowing the informal economy to be allowed by means of this kind of detour, and that is why I consider it very important that it should have been the law to impose that Alko's monopoly will remain with us and at the same time be able to manage the tax revenue that comes from it and which we need for the health care when these alcohol addicts are taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u593	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kari, for his interest in the line of the delegation, and I think it would also be a little interesting what I think. I'm very glad you're interested. First, we have to ask Mika Kar: Were the lines of the SDP live in the vote?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u594	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u595	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u596	Mr President! This is Congressman Kari, Congressman Mika Kari. There are two of us, Kari, even though we're not related, but this is the representative prefix I like to hear in this room. I say to Mr Kiuru that I myself am not responsible for the position of the SDP, especially since there is more than one of us Social Democrats in this House, unlike the Group of the European People's Party, here during the second reading. Mr Kiuru, you are one of the few who did not vote at all, even though you were present. In our own group, everyone who was present voted. If you do not believe these beliefs, you should look at the parliamentary website. That's where you'll find these things. In my opinion, I have asked a quite proper question: is this draft statement by a group of members of the Assembly behind it? As has been heard in this Chamber today, Mrs Kiuru is obviously behind this proposal for a statement, but there are more than one of you in the group. By the way, how will your group behave in this regard? You can't ask anyone else when you're not there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u597	Ladies and gentlemen! When there are only a few speeches in the request at all times, it is likely that if there is no point in commenting now, then we will go to the end of this list. — Representative Pirttäähti.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u598	Mr President! Indeed, we have about half a million high-risk users in Finland, probably no one is challenging this issue. But if we receive the imported wine that we currently import on ships from Estonia and Latvia and elsewhere — about 70 million litres, perhaps 30 million litres of beer, about these hums — even a little bit away from those users, then that is good. When you bring a big load into the corner of the garage and it gets old there, you have to use it away, and you get your neighbor drunk and he becomes a risk user too. So if we can get some out of there with this system, that's a really good thing. Representative Myllykoski now very much caught up in this rural business pattern. If you drink alcohol at the catering or catering premises and it goes according to this new law, then you don't enjoy it, and you don't have a smoke sauna there anymore, but if you take the party to the working house, you can bring a van full of beer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u599	Mr President! Mr Pirttila has already clearly returned to this reply, which Mr Myllykoski threw. Now that we are not going anywhere, Mrs Myllykoski, we were on the same wavelength in committee. We only had a slight difference in the kind of farms you could use that sparkling wine without the waiter's fee. It was a very small nuance that we disagreed about. This is not a good time to stand by and think about this as it is. When you think of the fact that if the catering company makes the food, offers the place and wants to take only sparkling wine at the wedding and the company without a reward would do the job and not be allowed to accept it, is this the fear that competition will be put at risk if the restaurant entrepreneur and such a catering company are not on the same line? It is not at all a question of bringing a load of grey liquor into the back yard of the restaurant or the catering company that does not have the A-rights and starting to enjoy them there. Those who would like to offer alcohol on a permanent basis in their catering company would probably take care of the A-rights to the premises so that they could then offer them alcohol. But we are talking here, and the committee's statement was only about small quantities of wine, for example, sparkling wines, starters. I was certainly not opening up any major aspects of the fact that Hiace loads are being started in those catering companies, but I wanted to bring freedom of business and the opportunity for rural tourist farms to continue to organise these celebrations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u600	Mr President! At the risk that the vote will not last, I would like to take the floor on this very point. In my opinion, there is absolutely no way that two types of restaurant market can be created. What would happen if a customer came, would be throwing a party, and would be the first to ask if they were allowed to bring their own drinks to the restaurant? When a restaurant entrepreneur who had an alcohol permit announced that this was not legally possible, this person would then move on to another person and seek for so long that an operator who does not do so would be found, i.e. some of the restaurants would be excluded from the alcohol law in this case. I think this is a very simple matter. It's not impossible to apply for a permit. In 30 days, on average, you get a liquor license. I do not believe that the rural entrepreneur will be caught either if he is unable to apply for this permit.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u601	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u602	Representative Kari — representative Mika Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u603	Mr President! Apparently, the previous debate had left this speech hanging over there. I am going to use it only to say that when Mr Kiuru and I had this debate about which one of us is responsible for our group, we will probably unanimously say that neither.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u604	Mr President! This issue of distance selling is unclear, not because it should be banned or allowed separately, but because it has been left unclear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u605	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u606	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u607	Mr President! Mr Kari, that is to say Mr Kari, asked me where the articles have disappeared. I cannot answer that, because I have not been to the committees where this matter has been dealt with. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: They have not disappeared in committee!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u608	Mr President, värderade talman! The statement proposed by Mr Heikkinen is being discussed here. I myself prefer the text of the statement to the text that was adopted in the report, but I ask: is it common for the government parties to have to make a new statement in the Chamber on the draft law and because it is known that it is inadequate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u609	Mr President! I thank Mrs Parviai, who was better at describing this problem than I did in my own speeches, what it would mean in an entrepreneurial field. When it comes to working-houses, I would now like to say to Mr Hakaselle that this same thing also applies to landmen's houses, which are not in any way different. And if you said it was a quibble, then it was a question of the fact that I tried to emphasise in committee that rural tourism entrepreneurship could be set up, even if it were an old school, so that you, in your own draft statement, would have allowed such a rural tourism company to be set up to offer services there free of tax and to import its own alcoholic beverages. It is completely incomprehensible that you would have broken this whole licensing system, the way in which we are controlled by alcohol when it is subject to authorisation. You would have broken the opportunities for rural operators to compete with those who already have these permits. The question was that I would have been there to support this if it had been for farm tourism companies, for which this could have been a business activity. But now wipe out that skunk glass from the wedding party, because everyone's smiling at it here: I don't think anyone wants to just toast the bride and groom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u610	I would ask Mr Haka to press the actual button on the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u611	Thank you, Mr President. This freedom of business and catering entrepreneurs and restaurant entrepreneurs has now been discussed and, as it were, excused by better and better powers than in the past, the effectiveness of this legislation in the pursuit of the business. However, there is one shortcoming in this preparation in my opinion that, now that the A, B, C licences become a single licence, any person seeking a licence can then sell all the alcohol that this Finnish legislation allows to sell in volume. In that sense, I do not see this as an improvement in the business of the industry, especially of the restaurant entrepreneur, because this makes it possible for everyone who applies for the licence to sell it along with the pizza, even if it is alcoholic beverages. When, at least in some of these restaurants, I have ordered, for example, cans of soft drinks now, I have never, to my surprise, noticed in any of the pizzas that taxes have been paid on them to Finland, even from those cans. They've been nowhere so far, at least in pizza. As far as I am concerned, this alcohol policy is now giving us the chance in the future that the pizza entrepreneur will then be allowed to sell any length of alcoholic beverage if he applies for it and gets it, that it will inevitably reduce the price of alcohol, because the competition will be fierce. Earlier last week, I said that there are more than a dozen places in Korso alone where they are also being indulged in the various foods they eat, and everyone understands that the restaurant entrepreneur is being squeezed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u612	Mr President! The fact that the price is falling, consumption is increasing and that all the adverse effects are increasing is probably one of the most important things the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has heard in consultation with experts, and so on we all hear in this Chamber. I don't think there's any doubt about that. But when this discussion has been taking place in that office for hours, it seems as if the most important matters of the law were catering services or manors and the liquor licenses for shopper glasses. I don't think so. But when the rural industries and the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry came to the fore, I would like to point out that, as far as the rural industries, the regional industries, we also heard the Federation of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, and I think that it was heard that this increase in the percentage limit is undermining the position of small breweries in the shops, because competition is increasing and precisely provokes foreign manufacturers to bring 5,5 % products onto the shelf. This 4.7 % by volume limit is as if a safeguard limit for domestic small brewery beer, and there are certainly not many domestic breweries. Small breweries in the provinces still have that. Of the large breweries, the truly domestic is only Olvi. All other larger domestic breweries are part of some big foreign brewery company, they are no longer domestic breweries. As far as the drinking culture is concerned, there are also arguments that when you get a little stronger alcoholic beverages here and there, this will become European and we will be in Paris as if. If we want to compare the situation with the closer this Finnish drinking culture has been, let us compare it to the neighbouring country, where very strong alcohol products can be obtained from all shops, and that neighbor is in the east. Have the customs become Europeanized and the drinking culture cleaned up? I do not think they are, and that is a culture closer to which we have been drinking for a long time, and we will undoubtedly remain there. However, the key points of this law at this stage are the unresolved ban on distance selling: whether it is coming into the law or not, and what will happen to Alko's monopoly. That's what's killing me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u613	Mr President! Perhaps at this point in the debate it is good to remind you that alcohol is a happy thing. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u614	Mr President! Booze is a drink of the wise, and it is a fact that there are valuable opinions here and we must respect everyone's own view. And even today, though, it is also a fact that if you are nonalcoholic, you often have to explain it too. But it is also this European culture that is expanding. But I would like to return to that point by Mrs Myllykoski, which has already been the subject of a debate between the two of us, and others have already taken part. It was about the number of farms we were talking about when we were talking about farmers or rural tourists. I did not find it in my old note, but in any case less than 100 such farms today operate in the countryside on the peninsula of Finland. The figure was about 60 to 70, if I remember correctly, this is a completely memory-absorbing figure. They are constantly delivering a variety of banquets, either throughout the year or just during the summer months, and they have had no need to acquire A-rights or B-rights for the farms, they are not restaurants, they are therefore celebrating in the countryside. And of these too, quite a few farms — now I am not saying the number because there is no fact — there is a farm, Mrs Myllykoski, that there is no farm code, that is not an applicant for agricultural subsidies, that is, there is no farm, but there is a farm in rural areas, there is a former farm from which the fields are rented, where forestry is managed and there is such rural tourism. There's a representative. You know, I think it's a good idea to keep a 40-year-old. So this is how this thing works. In other words, these were the farms, and it was only that we had a difference of interpretation: is it a farm or is it rural entrepreneurship? And in this way, at least, I will continue to approach this issue. And we all have valuable opinions about this percentage of alcohol, and let us not question them. But then one more thing: it's going to be a lot of time, and I'm going to give you one last speech before the morning oatmeal, that's what I'm going to do. I'm gonna end this conversation tonight about alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u615	Mr President! Really, this has been discussed for a long time and the morning oatmeals are approaching. There are some unfinished business here, as Mr Harakka mentioned, and in various other legislation these have been corrected, and indeed there will be more corrections to the VM and hopefully good legislation. I myself have just mentioned these concerns and proposals from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and they have not been taken into account. For example, it is quite disastrous for small pub organizers and others, so that it can be corrected at the same time, and also this marketing and export issue for small breweries. Then we will probably get and see such information as on the weekend news about this last decision of our legislation. Yes, I have seen small brewers who are delighted with this new legislation. It will give them opportunities, they will commit themselves to new investments. I wonder what the negative comes out of here again. We are now probably in this sort of state, when we may have decided on two things, and with different opinions one side has won and the other may be in this so-called lost and its opinion we want to accept and perhaps read the news in the papers. But at least I read positive about this, and I put my finger on these small brewers when they were satisfied with this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u616	Mr President! Of course, this alcohol discussion has been taking place for many hours and several different days. It tells us that the issue is being discussed, perhaps also because it shared opinions, especially these specific details and, above all, this percentage limit for retail trade. But there is another matter here: although this overall reform of the alcohol law has been a long process and has been attempted before — in that sense, the foundations already existed — it has become urgent. There have been a huge number of unclear points in this law, and this matter of distance selling is, of course, the biggest, especially since the committee did not even give it time to deal with it properly. But there are other small details, such as those mentioned here by Mr Pirttilahti, which hope that this law will soon be reopened and corrected. Unfortunately, I believe that this reflects the badness of the process in the sense that it has been done for so long, we would have had the opportunity to take some more time here so that we could get things right once and for all. I really regret that this was not the case, but that we are now in a hurry to get this thing out of hand under Christmas, knowing that it will, however, come back to this Chamber in some form — and I hope it will. I hope that this impetus, which has now been put forward by the government parties, will be taken seriously and will be re-examined, because this matter of distance selling is very big and it is also very unclear to many of us, because we do not have the facts and the committee did not get the information so that we can then read what is going on in the report. To this small brewery issue, of course, I am delighted, above all, with this right of exit, which is indeed an important decision for small breweries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u617	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u618	Mr President! We've been talking about alcohol for quite a while, but let's just take a little more time with the alcohol tax. Mr President! The Left Alliance agrees with this report by the Committee on Finance on changes in the excise duty on alcohol, but other tax solutions affecting the way alcohol is used and consumed, which should now also be considered in this context. The shift in the focus of alcohol consumption away from home-controlled facilities and social interaction facilities would be extremely important for us and could contribute to reducing alcohol harm and promoting restaurant culture. But this government proposal for an alcohol law, which we have probably talked about here for more than 11 hours, does not support this objective, because the availability of alcohol in this bill is increasing, the price is falling and consumption is shifting even more to homes, as Mrs Kiljunen said certainly there about a few hours ago. One way to encourage such a change in consumer habits, which has been discussed in this Chamber all night long, would be to reduce the price of the restaurant industry in relation to domestic retail sales and foreign imports. The proposed increase in alcohol tax is concentrated on beer and other soft drinks, which are the main products of restaurant consumption, so it can be estimated that its effects are even the opposite, even though the increase is slightly lower than in retail sales. On the basis of the above, I object to the proposal for a statement in accordance with Rule 1: 'The Parliament requires that the government prepare and submit to Parliament a proposal to reduce VAT on restaurant services to the level of other restaurant services.'
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u619	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's proposal, and I still believe that alcohol consumption aimed at the restaurant is better than it is that it is being treated for its constant rumbling and drinking at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u620	Mr President! However, despite the evening's arrival and the forthcoming spawning speech, a few words about this legislation, [Laughter] So this is part of the autumn tax increases, which, in accordance with the Government Programme, are intended to shift the tax focus from labour to business to harmful taxes. In addition, the Government Programme has agreed that alcohol tax will be reviewed if tax increases in Estonia allow for this. Since a substantial increase in alcohol tax has been decided in Estonia for the next three years, the Government’s policy can be implemented. In addition, the grounds are not removed by the decision to halve the next tax increase of the Estonian Government in 2018, which will enter into force in Estonia. In fact, the decisions on the increase which had the strongest impact on the tax level have already been taken. The change in the level of increase in February in Estonia is therefore of minor importance. In other words, the purpose of this proposal is perhaps primarily a fiscal one, with a target of an increase of EUR 100 million in alcohol tax revenue. Furthermore, the proposal has a health policy objective of reducing the overall consumption of alcohol and its many disadvantages, which have been mentioned a great deal here. In the Committee's view, the proposal is a consistent continuation of the five tax increases that have been carried out in the period 2008 to 2014. Like them, the proposed increases have also been designed to measure and target passenger imports in such a way that they do not significantly increase passenger imports. This applies to all groups of alcohol but is slightly concentrated on non-alcoholic beverages — that is to say, those whose distribution is expanding. The positive effect of these decisions is that the tax revenue of alcohol has remained quite stable despite the fall in total consumption. It already amounted to EUR 284 million in 2010 and has steadily increased to around EUR 350 million. The committee supports the adoption of the basic guidelines for this proposal, with minimal clarifications on the level of taxation for cider made by fermentation. President! A lot has been said about passenger imports. It has remained broadly stable, at around 7% of total consumption, and accounts for about three-quarters of unstated consumption, which totals around 21%. Passenger imports are a problem — and I am now saying my own opinion — and that, as we know, will be promoted both through tax reductions and other tax reductions related to EU membership. Alcohol also has industrial policy aspects. Alcohol, as has been said here, employs a considerable number of people, both immediately in the manufacture of products and still in sales, tourism and restaurant activities. These aspects must also be taken into account in tax policy. On the other hand, the committee notes that retail prices of alcoholic beverages have risen by around 2% in real terms between 2010 and 2016. In this respect, the situation has therefore been relatively stable. On the other hand, tax increases increase the difference between tourism and the restaurant sector in relation to the duty-free sale of passenger ships. In this regard, the committee considers it useful to examine what is currently being done by the parliamentary working group on the reform of business subsidies. This means that it would now be possible to look, for example, at these tax subsidies for entertainment ships. Like the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee has considered it important to monitor the development of passenger imports and to ensure that Customs' resources are secured in the control of alcohol imports. After all, Customs carried out intensive monitoring in 2015 and had positive consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u621	Mr President! I would like to comment on both these laws, both on the alcohol law and on what is now being discussed. As the government's focus has clearly been on the interests of the business community in these laws and alcohol law, the brewing industry clearly benefits from this increase in volume, it somehow feels that it would have been better to leave this increase and, at the same time, could have left this increase in alcohol tax, which would have affected all alcoholic beverages, importers, imports and businesses on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u622	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a disagreement in connection with the alcohol law as to the consequences of this change in the percentage limit. Now, of course, this alcohol tax, which is aimed specifically at mild drinks, is a sort of objective indicator of the fact that if its yield falls below the target of this 100 million, then it can be said that the effects were not very great, but if the yield is greatly exceeded, then it can be said that it has already had an impact on consumption, perhaps more than the government assumed. Let us hope that, for example, this tax change is something that would encourage the government to monitor very closely what the consequences of the amendment to the Alcohol Act are, no matter what follow-up efforts are being added to this practice. Indeed, it was significant that this alcohol law and this alcohol tax were linked in such a way that our deliberations in the tax section were, for this reason, rather formal. It was clear that particularly careful public health or other social impact assessments were not carried out on the proposed tax increase, nor were different models compared, but rather focused on those product groups for which this alcohol law was intended to increase availability, and the objective was quite precisely fiscal. The committee therefore stated that it is pointless to go into this area and ask ourselves whether it should have been more forceful, or in what way it would have been the best possible alcohol policy, the expertise of which, of course, we do not have very high levels of expertise, but we did not have much expert consultation on the subject. The only change they made to the show was the so-called Lex Ala-Nissila. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u623	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u624	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u625	Mr President! I support the government's proposal to increase the alcohol tax. This is a target of EUR 100 million, and then it would be about six cents per beer jar. This is an interesting problem, which, in this protest from the Left Alliance, came about, how we would get more customers in restaurants and what dynamic effects this proposal could have. Now Mr Harakka brought this figure, 120 million minuses, here and there, and whether there would be so many positive things there then, with which we could cover it. In fact, I would like to ask which side the Left Alliance would cover its proposal. And the second: it would be interesting to see what is the dynamic circle, what could come from it all through this, and could we get more action in restaurants? I quite agree with Congressman Sem that as you improve the restaurant environment, good food and good music environment, this kind of serving happens, so it will be good for all these producers. In our group, too, there are muskants who say that it is a shame to go there at three or four o’clock to make phone calls that when we get people to the restaurants even earlier. Would this be the one boost to it? But I would like to listen with interest to the figures that the Left Alliance is putting forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u626	Mr President! Mr Harakka here well opened up the committee's reading and the fact that, in practice, this was not so much a tax policy as a policy of alcohol, but this was linked to this overall reform of the alcohol law, and this was certainly also the reason why this alcohol law was forced to be dealt with so urgently. When this is linked to this tax law, it was required that we break through this, even though there were many unclear points left behind and the committee did not even get the consultations it wanted to finish, as should be done in a good process. I do find this extremely regrettable that this is the way to play the game. I don't think this is right for anyone to be honored. These matters — both the taxation of alcohol and the way in which it governs the alcohol policy and the alcohol law itself — are both big issues that should be dealt with from the real point of view of what the law is dealing with, and think about the whole thing, without being rushed through and being forced to decide on them in the context of this budget law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u627	Mr President! The Christian Democrats have objected to it and in their alternative budget they have raised the total alcohol tax of EUR 200 million, or 100 million more than the government is proposing. After all, this committee's report has referred to five previous tax increases and their positive effects, but these previous tax increases did not at the same time increase the availability of alcohol, as the government is now doing, and it is precisely because of these government measures that a higher tax increase is needed than what the government is now proposing. In particular, if the alcohol content of alcoholic beverages sold in the retail trade is increased in accordance with the wishes of the government parties, then the transfer of a stronger beer from Alko to grocery stores will result in a significant reduction in prices and, at the same time, an increase in the total consumption of alcohol, just as has been mentioned here earlier in the evening. To the extent that much has been said about the harmful effects of alcohol this evening, and the causes of alcohol - related deaths have been the most common cause of death among working - age people in recent years. These additional costs of alcohol harm to public finances amount to several billions of euros a year, and then, given the loss of production in working life and other disadvantages, the costs are many times higher. In other words, once we have calculated these and asked the experts, our group concluded that a tax increase is needed to balance this situation twice as much as the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u628	Mr President! It's been an objection. In our view, the dynamic effects referred to by Mr Pirttilahti have not been taken into account. If we in the last ten years have lost 15,000 jobs in the Mara region, in other words in the accommodation and nutrition sector, then it is quite clear that VAT could be used to approach it. Is it EUR 120, 50 or 100 million, but in any case I personally would see, when I was very committed to this view of ours, that we should have created a special tax category for 5.5, which would have taken the EUR 100 million and thus enabled this calculation of VAT on alcohol in restaurants. At the moment when this was still being considered, our view was clearly that these two issues should be brought together in order to strike a balance between the collection of taxes and the availability of taxes and the dynamic effects of work. And most importantly, in every moment we have to see that if drinking at home is reduced and, instead of allowing restaurants to be freed from the norm without permission to apply for extension periods, we will be able to advance the amount of drinking and the time of drinking in restaurants, i.e. by allowing the services and employment of restaurants to take place in the past, so that we do not have to tip over until half-five, so if we calculate these dynamic effects, the proportion of alcohol harm in working life would have been much lower.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u629	Mr President! It has now been left unanswered, with which you intend to cover this gap of EUR 120 million in real life and real budgeting. If we now accept these dynamic effects, which have now been taken into account in your protest, namely that there will be EUR 70 to 80 million to pay or lose to the State, then that is also a big money. And if you do not have, if I am wrong, these funds in your own alternative budget, when, according to good budgetary practice, we always estimate the static costs and then separately can say that there are some dynamic effects, please tell us what you intend to cover this tax loss. In fact, this would mean that this increase in the intended alcohol tax, which is justified in relation to the increase in availability,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u630	Mr President! I had intended to reply with my own speech, but I might as well answer this when several questions have been asked. This proposal is not included in the alternative budget of the Left Alliance, but it is included in our anti-budget clause. In other words, we also have the freedom to make proposals that it has not been possible to take into account at the time the alternative budgets are drawn up. Indeed, the assessment here is that some of these losses are specifically covered by the alcohol tax revenue, that is to say, this increase, and according to our estimates, if only static calculations are assessed, it would be around minus 20 million. But our estimate is that, probably after dynamic effects, these losses would be lower than the additional proceeds of alcohol tax tightening. And that is how it is justified in our proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u631	Mr President! This distance sales were dealt with by the Tax Section, including by Mrs Harakka. However, it was found that it was a question under the Alcohol Act, not a direct tax issue. When it is said that alcohol consumption is influenced by availability and price, in that sense this tax issue relates to this whole. I do not think, however, that we have such a group, but that is how they are linked. In my opinion, there is a point in this protest by the Left Alliance in the sense that the hotel and restaurant sector has indeed come down for a long time and its competitive conditions are difficult. I am also referring here to this entertainment boat tourism, which in the Turku region and in the Helsinki region genuinely competes with restaurant activities on unfair terms. Perhaps in business support solutions or somewhere this can be taken into account, but at this stage it was important that this 100 million, which comes here, can be used to reduce the tax burden on labour, and in that sense it is indeed difficult to see the funding for that protest from the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u632	Mr President! Every party, in turn, usually needs to propose a reduced VAT on a matter, such as serving alcohol in restaurants. It is worth noting, however, that reduced VAT rates always increase the costs of the company and the tax administration and cause problems of border-setting. Overall, such a multi-generation system is reasonably expensive and ineffective in the collection of taxes. While we are still sitting on a business support team, we must remember that reduced VAT is a big part of our business support system. And, unlike creating further reduced rates, we have a particular need to combine the former rates and to have our VAT system as transparent and uniform as possible for all products. That is why I would not go on creating further reduced VAT rates here either. It is also worth remembering that the reduced VAT rate was tested about ten years ago on barbers in the hope that the price of the service would have fallen. In some barbershops it also happened, but far from everywhere, but after a few years the end of the flood was that the VAT rate was restored and everyone priced their products as they do. The same would probably be the case for restaurants. Certainly not all restaurants would lower the prices of their rations in proportion to the fall in the rate of VAT. It is therefore worth sticking to this current position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u633	Mr President! I took the floor when Mr Ala-Nissilä said about the various business subsidies for passenger transport and pointed out that, quite rightly, these certain recreational cruise ships compete largely with restaurants. I can tell you, therefore, that in the green alternative budget, support for passenger transport would be reduced by EUR 15 million, specifically for the entertainment staff on these passenger ships, not for those who take care of freight traffic or the crew themselves who control the ship. I very much hope that the centre will also be included in this proposal when these business subsidies are put into practice in the Joint Business Support Group, because it is quite true that they are now in an unfair competitive environment compared to the various conference and accommodation services in the countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u634	Mr President! It was good to hear Mr Andersson's clarification that, if I quote correctly, they took the liberty of increasing expenditure even after the alternative budget had been presented. So you have now brought a whole new document to this debate. It is an alternative to an additional budget, but why, EUR 100 million for an additional budget, and it may be understood that your additional budget is also in deficit. Seriously, this is the kind of freedom we have not given ourselves in the social democrats, as nice as it would be to finance all kinds of good projects and to gain popularity from many target groups. This is an issue which we could very much like to discuss at some point in time. Mr President! I would also like to thank the Greens very quickly that they have always arranged an election cruise on dry land in the hotel to support the hotel and restaurant industry in a way that lasts the examination, that is, all the credit for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u635	Mr President! I do not fully sign this criticism by Mr Harakka, which does not seem to be directed towards our proposal, but at our alternative budgeting method, unlike Mr Järvinen, who has intervened and expressed his views on it. If Mr Harakka wants us to make an additional leaflet for our alternative budget, we can certainly make one for him. The idea here was, in any case, that we also have a financial means to propose, that is to say that we are able to cover most of these income losses through the tightening of alcohol taxation, which, as I recall, is not specifically mentioned in our alternative budget. In other words, this is a proposal made with a very responsible attitude, with the aim, of course, of participating in this debate on alcohol policy. In our opinion, this would have been a much more responsible way of promoting the change in Finnish drinking habits and also Finnish employment than this increase in the percentage of alcohol and the transfer of stronger drinks to stores, which Parliament now ended up in after the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u636	Mr President! I would remind Mr Harakka that alternative budgets in any form as we do them today are a very new institution in this Parliament's budget reading. It has also been very common for the Social Democrats before the current formal alternative budget practice to make various proposals at different places during the budget process, as for all other groups. There's nothing weird or amazing about it. The central idea of alternative budgets is to show that it is possible to do things differently, that there are realistic ways of implementing a different policy than the one in the official budget proposed by the government. It is therefore only reasonable, understandable and appropriate that, even after the alternative budgets have been drawn up at a relatively early stage, the debate will live and those options will continue to be expressed in accordance with the way the debate is conducted. This is only a sensible and timely policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u637	Ladies and gentlemen, when there is one or at most two speakers on the list, it is reasonable that we should no longer intervene by replying, but ask for a normal speech. Now first to Mr Karille and then, if Mr Harakka wants to do so, to him afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u638	Mr President! This alternative budgetary approach will probably develop along the way. I believe that, and I hope so, because it is all right that the opposition's alternative is mirrored by the government's alternative. But it is at least as important, as Mr Harakka has shown here, that alternative budgets are also comparable. In practice, then, comparability with the government proposal will be more balanced and, you can say, even fairer when we do not have different ways of making alternative budgets. Of course, the government's proposal is always perhaps fair to say for the real economy, better time and better understanding of everyday realities. But I must say that in this six to seven years the alternative budgets have also evolved in the right direction, so that they are a fair and good benchmark for the government's proposal. We are trying to cover all the expenditure that we are presenting ourselves and to build our proposal in such a way that it is an actual alternative to the government budget, not just an election budget, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u639	Mr President! Thank you for the answers. I just wanted to make sure that this was the case, that there was no corresponding item of revenue to cover this expenditure. So we have a slightly different approach to budgets and perhaps also to spending money. I agree with Mr Kontula that these budgets should not, as it were, overwhelm this political imagination and political debate, that it should be possible to do so outside of them. But it is precisely for that reason that it seems so extraordinary that this commendable debate, which included Mr Järvinen's views on the fact that the price elasticities of this VAT reduction are quite questionable, could take place within the context of the matter and not be interpreted as a Euromillion effort and objection to this, which is therefore intended to be a serious alternative to the way in which the government thought its money would be used or other opposition parties would have to be financed for all their good intentions. This debate should take place in a different form than a serious draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u640	Mr President! In conclusion, it must be said that, if we did not know what the government is doing to each other when drawing up alternative budgets, whether or not the alcohol tax will be the truth when the main government parties argue with each other, I think it is reasonable that we should be able to react to it when it is done or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u641	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u642	Mr President! So it is one of the most unfair proposals of this regime, an active model which, according to the government's message, I would prefer to call a passive model, a squatting model that exposes the unemployed to a truly unreasonable situation in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u643	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u644	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u645	Mr President! Few of the issues discussed in this Chamber have become so much citizen's feedback as the active model of the Unemployment Protection Act that is now under discussion. In fact, it seems that the unemployed have been commendablely active, as the government wishes. The common denominator for these communications has been a great concern and confusion. E - mails and messages convey some form of shame and even despair. Hardly anyone unemployed is actively unemployed or intentionally seeking unemployment. The term "ideologically unemployed" used in public is also an isolated case created by the media, whose main character sought publicity to sell the fruits of his work. Yes, Finnish work usually does, if only there is work available, there has been a regrettably little in the last ten years. However, I do not believe that the government's objective here is to harass the unemployed or that, for its own amusement, it would like to build an eternal mobility where the unemployed would only be mobile parts — not at all. I believe that the ultimate purpose of the law was good and its objective is genuinely to mobilise the unemployed. Unfortunately, however, the outcome is so incomplete that it cannot reach its goal. It is therefore impossible to support the proposal, and it is precisely because of the runaway defects in this proposal that I support Mrs Kiljune's rejection proposal. This draft law must be rejected. In many ways, the draft law is also problematic from the point of view of the Constitution. It would treat unemployed people in different localities differently. The unemployed cannot necessarily have an effect on the level of benefits being maintained. Nor is it always possible, for various individual reasons, for the unemployed to meet the requirement of activity referred to in the law. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, everyone must be guaranteed a genuine opportunity to participate in a service that promotes employment or in activities that are regulated. This would mean a clear increase in the supply of the services and activities concerned. In the Committee's view, this too is not necessarily enough, as it is not possible to guarantee full access to the service on a legislative basis. I do not think that the person who does everything reasonably required can be the victim of a reduction in the benefit. This means that the draft law must be supplemented by a provision that the benefit is not reduced if the jobseeker has not been able to find employment or gain access to employment-promoting services for reasons beyond his/her own control. Services and other activities supporting employment should therefore be defined in a much more precise manner in the relevant provisions. I think it is important to include in the Unemployment Protection Act a broader definition of the demonstration of activity proposed in the proposal and that activity can also be demonstrated by self-employed work, such as voluntary or voluntary work. It is also extremely important that the individual’s health and ability to work in different positions is taken into account and that the requirement of activity is waived when it is harmful to the health of the unemployed person. Now that the Finnish economy is showing signs of strong growth, it is important to take timely, correct forms of employment measures. The measures planned by the government do provide the unemployed with a stick. However, it would also be desirable to look for the carrot bag that enables people to activate the unemployed. In many areas there is already talk of labour shortages. I think it is important now to meet everyone who is unemployed as an individual. It is good to see who are those who should quickly get into further or retraining so that the current problem of matching can be resolved as quickly as possible. It must also be recognised that not all unemployed people will be employed in a free labour market. That is why it is very important to find the work of the third sector in which these people are able to find employment and where their contributions will be of mutual benefit. For each individual, it cannot be a matter of maximum performance, but it can always be a full participation that affects each individual, in which every person can make a work contribution of his own size.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u646	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u647	Mr President! The so-called 'active model' proposed in this government proposal means a reduction in benefits for the unemployed if there has been insufficient activity. This is a problem for the Finns, starting with the fact that the proposal also states that it is very difficult to assess the impact of the proposed model on employment. Mr President! Dear government, with this motion, you've pissed off the unemployed. There's been a lot of mail. We've had mail every day. Today I have answered many phone calls and had to hear some rather ghastly stories, including the story of a lady about what she is going to be unemployed at the age of 48, and that unemployment has lasted. She told me that she's been through ageism, that she's been put on a ramp and that no job has been found, no matter how active you've been.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u648	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u649	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u650	And now we're going to have a very short debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u651	Mr President! It is gratifying that the Finns of Peru have turned against this model, because this was one of the presentations that was made in connection with the budget debate when the tens were made. So that one can say that in the sense of opening up and understanding what has been decided in the past, I think it is wise to back off. And I would hope that the present government parties will also understand what this law will bring when it comes to it, because this really does not bring the activity that this is seeking. Those who are already active will benefit from this, those who are just going to be unemployed will benefit from those days of responsibility, but those long-term unemployed, those who have already suffered from long-term unemployment, will not have access to these jobs. And the government itself thinks that income support expenditure will increase by about 10 million. If you think that the average income support is EUR 400, it will amount to 25,000 people, but when this is not the case with such a large increase in income support,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u652	Mr President! Representative Filatov is giving false testimony to the Finns of Finland at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u653	Mr President! However, when it says here that there is nothing good in this model, it must be said that in this active model, perhaps 70 to 80 per cent of the unemployed will win as the number of days taken is reduced by two at the beginning of unemployment. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u654	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u655	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u656	Mr President! At first, of course, we must thank these few brave representatives of the government parties who are now here in the Chamber, when in general, when this matter has been discussed, that side of the government in the Chamber has been quite empty. It is also very regrettable that this debate is always held at a time when the Finns are certainly not following this debate and the media does not seem to be very interesting either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u657	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u658	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u659	Mr President! This improvement, to which Mr Ala-Nissila refers, is therefore a reduction in the number of days in which the government itself cut and weakens, which you are now withdrawing. In other words, let us return to the situation that was when this government began to operate. If the improvements that you give rise to are of this class, then it does say a lot about the political line of this government as regards the livelihood of the unemployed. Nor will I thank the representatives of the government parties for being here on the ground. I think it is the least you should do to the Finnish unemployed in a situation like this, when there will be a historically weakly justified and historically unfair cut which will affect every single person and affect the position of every unemployed job seeker in this country. The least that can be expected is that the representatives of the government parties have the courage to be here to defend the motion, whether it be afternoon or night.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u660	Ladies and gentlemen, we would now try to move forward in such a way that I would give the answers to the speakers in this debate to Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Mr Järvinen, Mr Rehn-Kivi, Mr Tanus and then Mr Juvonen, who opened this debate at this stage. If these replies were sufficient at this stage, then we would move on to the list of speakers. More or less all the Members present are on that speaking list asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u661	Mr President! I would also have said to Mr Ala-Nissila that you yourself raised the share of these days of ownership from five to seven days and now you count it back to five and you are pious here about how the improvement has been made, as it were, at the time. It's a real trick. But it must be said from this law that this is, to a great extent, the squatting of the unemployed. Unemployment benefit will be cut if the unemployed person fails to find work, and we have very different conditions in different parts of Finland. Employment is influenced by many factors: residence, age and level of education, or the duration of unemployment, or even whether or not there is a car in use in the remote region. Moreover, there are no employment services available there to the extent that growth centres do, and this is certainly not the case with this model. You can't talk about an active model here. You can talk about a passive model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u662	Mr President! With the bill, the government wants to increase the activity of jobseekers and increase employment and prevent prolonged unemployment, but this proposed activity model is not the right way to go. As has been said here, this system would be very unfair to the unemployed. There will certainly be an increase in bureaucracy, and the workload of the authorities will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u663	Mr President! This active model is particularly brutal for all active unemployed people who make up to tens of applications for employment without getting a job. This is particularly brutal for all those unemployed who have life - control problems, substance abuse problems or other problems that make sure they do not get a job. This is simply a cramping, bouncing and squatting, and at the same time, representatives of Ala-Nissilä, Hakanen and Pylväs, the Secretary-General of your parliamentary group writes on an open Facebook page that this is caring about people. Do you share this philosophy with the Secretary-General of your parliamentary group? "This is caring about people." I think this is something else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u664	Before Mrs Juvose has spoken, I will give the floor to Mrs Kiuru. Then Juvonen and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u665	Mr President! I originally asked for an answer because it must be remembered, however, that this government, to which the Finns also belonged some time ago, took the days of the unemployed, then the indexes, and now even the dignity. In this respect, I agree with the point made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that under no circumstances can it be considered that this proposal is without problems. In this regard, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically stated that it is impossible to guarantee adequate provision of services, and it is incomprehensible to ask the unemployed to be included in this type of active model. This is a passive model. This is something we must absolutely oppose. I find it incomprehensible that this is seen as caring and caring. This is far from being the case, and it is also incomprehensible that the government parties were walking over the Constitutional Committee in connection with the drafting of the law, again, and are thus incomprehensible and unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u666	Mr President! This model has never been approved by a parliamentary group when the Finns of Finland were in the government. When I was there in the government negotiations, among other things, the nurseship was there on my own desk. I opposed it there in the negotiations, I also opposed it here in Parliament, and we have also withdrawn it. There's nothing surprising about the government being canceled. You yourself were in the government last season and you were bringing home-care support into compulsory distribution. You were about to bring home-care support, but what did you do? You canceled it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u667	And now let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u668	Mr President! So much more has to go back to the recent debate that Mr Kiuru, here the Finns of Peru, do not defend bad government performances. As Mrs Juvonen has just said, we have been waging against these government proposals until then, when our party was still united, and that is the end result. When you overwhelm, you break. But honestly, it is logical for a responsible decision-maker to oppose a government proposal that once again eludes the stone corner and the rocks of the Constitution. This government does not learn the lesson: on the same day there will be a debate twice on a government proposal in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the fact that a government proposal is unequal or in some other way discriminatory against a group of people. And when individual consideration was not even sought despite the offer, I am not surprised that the government forces are fleeing from this place when the opposition starts to speak from the constitutional point of view on this issue. By the way, I don't think there are any board members here at the moment. [Left: Escaped!] Mr President! At this stage, we must support Mr Juvonen's proposal for a statement, and at this point I also support the rejection by Mr Juvonen. The True Finns would have liked our own Labour Minister to have received the feedback that came to the parliamentary group and us parliamentarians a great deal when this bill began to be taken forward in public. Those little signals could have fixed this government proposal even better. Personally, I understand that an unemployed worker must be motivated and encouraged in various ways to do work and to return to working life. Personally, I personally believe that it is good to have such interviews at the Employment Office in different periods of time, which seek to find that path back to working life. The difference is, of course, that we cannot distinguish between unemployed people if there is disability, even disability, and many other shortcomings that prevent them from receiving a job or getting a job, for example because of their place of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u669	Mr President! First of all, with regard to Mr Niiko's speech and the criticism of this model by the Finns, it is said that, of course, as Mr Filatov has said, it is always good to have better ideas when you get to know the expert feedback and criticism, but it is quite true that the effectiveness of this criticism of the unemployed in the ass takes a great deal of effort to accept a number of proposals and cuts which were directed at the unemployed while you were still in the government, even though you had the opportunity to turn the sled when it comes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u670	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u671	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u672	Mr President! This is a serious matter. I have received almost 100 e-mails from citizens during the weekend and even today regarding this incomprehensible active model which the government has now presented to Parliament and which has already been approved by the government parties. People have appealed to us as parliamentarians to understand the plight of our citizens and now to make a humane decision and to cancel this heartless decision. I appeal to you, representatives of the Government Party — Mr Pirttilahti. [Laughter] Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said several times in this Chamber how unfair, inhuman and constitutionally questionable this proposal is. It's not the jobless person's fault if there's no job. This model puts people in a very unequal position with each other. The active model of the government's employment measures is targeted in particular at the unemployed, who do not have access to different employment opportunities or even employment-promoting services. The active model does not take into account, for example, older unemployed people, people in additional days, or even seasonal workers who employ only part of the year due to the nature of the work. In addition, citizens do not have equal opportunities to work in all parts of Finland as required by the active model. It is certainly easier to find employment here in the capital region than in Kainuu, for example. It is therefore simply a reduction of 4.65% in unemployment security expenditure, but it is precisely those categories of unemployed who are already in difficulty to find employment that are going to be badly affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u673	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u674	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u675	Mr President! A respected representative, Mr Pirttila, was pleased that one of the representatives of the government parties is here. — Tomorrow we will decide on the so-called active model of unemployment benefit, which automatically cuts 4.65% of unemployment benefit to all unemployed people who fail to find employment or access employment-promoting services during the 65-day period. The government has already weakened unemployment security in the past, that is to say, it will continue to be reduced as a penalty if the unemployed are unable to find work — it will not be possible to find work, as if it were a lucky lottery, because it is precisely here that so many, countless unemployed people are actively seeking work and yet they are seen as being lazy, inaccessible and unwilling to work. This is the inhuman part of this whole show. It has to be said that, as the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shows, the model puts people in a flagrantly unequal position, particularly as regards the availability of jobs or services in different regions and localities. According to the committee, it is not reasonable for the unemployed to avoid sanctions by their own actions, but to follow automatically, regardless of how actively they have been applied for. It must be sad that those ministers who have experienced unemployment themselves can present such a model. Not many months have passed since it has been said, like Mr Lindström, that it cannot be reasonable — but now it seems reasonable. I am convinced that the Finnish unemployed does not want to be unemployed but wants to work. I would have liked the government, and especially the ministers who have experienced unemployment themselves, to have taken steps to overcome the obstacles to employment. We should dismantle incentives and make the social security system more flexible so that it is easier to accept work. According to the economic experts consulted in committee, the employment impact of the active model based on the punishment of the unemployed is questionable. Mr President! It is impossible to accept this model. We should not have access to such human trials at the expense of the unemployed who are already living in poverty and the basic income of their children. We know in advance that jobs and services are not available to everyone, so it cannot be right to punish the people who are trapped in it for the lack of them. Okay, common sense and humanity oblige us to vote against the active model tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u676	Mr President! Activity is a positive thing. Active labour market policies are part of Nordic thinking, in which, in the event of unemployment, the state or municipality helps the unemployed to survive not only by paying unemployment benefit but also by helping to actively provide services such as employment services, education, support work, rehabilitation and so on. Finland is an exception in this respect. We talk a lot about activation, but we refuse to understand that it requires much more services. At present, a large number of unemployed people are being directed, for example, to rehabilitative work activities, although they do not need it, just because there is no money, for example, for pay subsidies. At the same time, labour market training has been pushed down strongly during this term of government. The fact that education has been transferred to the central government system and, at the same time, the central government system has introduced criteria which make it difficult to train an older person who has already acquired a profession, is actually driving our labour market training completely down. This active model of unemployment benefit is from an Orwellian egregist. Actually, it's a passive model. The model requires the unemployed to find work in order to receive unemployment benefit. Indeed, an unemployed person needs to find work in order to receive full unemployment benefit. This sounds so absurd as to think you've read wrong. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case; the law is based on this thinking. The second possibility is to find active labour market measures, but those active measures are limited in such a way that the unemployed do not have the power to decide whether or not they will be included in those active measures. It would be necessary if this law were to be adopted tomorrow, that the government, as soon as promised by the Alcohol Act, should prepare a supplementary proposal to this law, which would assume that it would be accepted as an active activity, such as participation in a community college course or the fact that it is active in a voluntary organisation. This is not the case at the moment. Access to rehabilitative work activities, work trials, job search training, vocational labour market training or self-training. But even the unemployed person does not decide for himself about self-employed education, even though the word "self-determination" means that he is, as it were, in control of what is happening. For the government, this model leaves the role of passive cutter, which is why this is actually a passive model. The State does not need to provide a job or other active measures. Philosophy emphasizes that the state does not actually have a responsibility to help the unemployed and, in a way, the idea that unemployment is a man's own fault. If an unemployed person refuses a job offered, it is not unreasonable for unemployment benefit to be reduced. But if the unemployed cannot find a job, it is unreasonable that unemployment benefit should be cut. In the previous debate, the Minister of Labour justified this law by the need to make bad decisions, but did not justify in any way the way in which this law promotes employment, but justified this only by, for example, being part of the 10th list agreed upon in connection with the budget debate, and there are other packages included in that 10th list. I cannot help thinking that the poor Minister himself does not believe in this model of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u677	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u678	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u679	Mr President! It is already after twelve o'clock, but here in the dark we are discussing an even more obscure issue when it comes to the active model of reducing unemployment security. First, the government cut the duration of unemployment benefit, then took the index increases and now again cuts, at least for the third time, unemployment benefit if the unemployed cannot find a job. This proposal must be rejected, as the active model puts unemployed job seekers in a very unequal position. Here in Parliament, however, the government parties are pushing the proposal through, but there is no one to present this model or, in particular, to justify it, not even to go into the debate. The only brave guerrilla in the government party is here. This is the case, although the Constitutional Committee has stated in its own opinion that, since the unemployed do not necessarily have the opportunity, despite their own efforts, to comply with the law, the proposal cannot be regarded as a constitutional problem. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore states in its opinion that since, despite their own efforts, the unemployed do not necessarily have the opportunity to fulfil the legal requirements, it should be ensured that the unemployed person can be guaranteed his/her own activity by other means. In practice, therefore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that, if the provision of adequate services cannot be guaranteed, the unemployed should be able to demonstrate their activity in ways other than those set out. This position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs echoed like a deaf ear, for in fact the representatives of the political parties in the government of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health decided, despite this, that this was not so problematic. And as a result, the model is here now at second reading. Mr President! The SDP is proposing to reject the active model. The model discriminates and impoverishs the unemployed. Yes, the unemployed have been sitting on hot enough stones — the government cutting the safety of the unemployed since the beginning of the year. In this respect, it is worth noting that this model also puts unemployed people across the board in a very different position. There are, of course, differences in employment opportunities for the unemployed, other than those related to their place of residence. People’s age, level of education or the duration of unemployment, for example, all influence how active they are. The model penalises those with the lowest employment opportunities and not necessarily the same access to services. Therefore, the reduction of unemployment benefit, which is intended to be a priority, can in fact lead to a situation in which a person ends up in the last resort, i.e. in the form of income support. This is acknowledged in the Government's proposal, as the proposal states that income support expenditure will increase by around EUR 10 million — think of it, by around EUR 10 million — and housing expenditure will increase by EUR 4 million. At the same time as the government has already cut significantly the resources for employment management, it is considered that this activity model would be something worth paying more for in order to activate the unemployed. The explanation is lame, because in reality this active model is threatening to become a passive model. Society will not help but actually punish the unemployed. If the unemployed are unable to fulfil their obligations, they will be punished. Self-activity is irrelevant, and society does not have adequate services or even this government wants to invest in adequate services to help society when it is not possible to get work by its own means. In this respect, we consider this proposal to be one that must be rejected, as the active model puts unemployed job seekers in a very unequal position. Mr President! Finally, it is unfortunate that, through the trade in political cows and various types of agreements, we have to justify a model that affects human dignity so much. Think: First the days were taken, then the indices and now the dignity. Yes, caring is so hard that, at least after the statement of the Constitutional Committee, the government should have re-evaluated how this model could be changed or abandoned, as the SDP has suggested. Finally, if this has been a part of a cow trade, that is to say, a part of an internal government list of tens, a working list, then it can already be said that should we not be ashamed of the government parties? You can't buy and sell human dignity as part of other cow trades. If that is the case, it is good to conclude that this model should be rejected and followed by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this model is not unproblematic from the point of view of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u680	Mr President! Once again, we are dealing with the active model of unemployment security and we are discussing it at night, and again there are only two representatives of the government parties, as they were very few in this first part of the first reading, then only one at a time. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] Mr President! Tens of thousands of Finnish unemployed people will suffer severely if this active model of unemployment security comes into force. For a low income, the loss of a few tens a month is really big money, and this model is all too well a reflection of the government's ice-cold and inhumane line. Under no circumstances can the Finns of Peru accept the active model. Minister of Labour Lindström said last Thursday in an interview with Finland that the government may still have to correct this active model. Minister Lindström even acknowledged the active model of punishing the unemployed in seeking work for failure. A particularly serious problem with this active model is that the proposal does not oblige employment authorities to provide unemployed people with work or other activation measures to avoid cuts to their unemployment benefit. Mr President! The unemployed person must succeed in finding a job so that he can maintain his unemployment benefit at even the same level as before. Otherwise, the cutter will strike. And the Minister of Labour, Lindström herself, admitted both Good Morning in Finland and here at Question Time, when the Finns asked the question that this model was not considered until the end, but he had to bring it to Parliament. This all sounds very strange, but it seems that this is the logic of the government. Mr President! In recent times, the government has also been consulted on requirements to weaken working conditions. Petteri Orpo, Minister for Finance of the Coalition Party, said in an interview with the Economics 8. On 1 December, the employee's salary could be lower in cases where there are shortcomings in his/her skills. The Finns of Peru are strongly opposed to this demand from the Coalition Party. In practice, the implementation of Minister Orpo's proposal would mean the dismantling of universality and the creation of a cheap labour market in Finland. On the other hand, the True Finns offer incentives, training and, in particular, improving the operating conditions of the smallest enterprises as a remedy for employment management. Mr President! Further training must be provided for the unemployed in the sectors where the workforce is needed. Moderate income tax reductions also contribute to employment, and we encourage the government to continue along the road to income tax reductions. In their alternative budget, the Finns have also presented an experiment on the introduction of the Estonian business tax model in companies that employ more staff. Mr President! Mass unemployment is not a natural law, and it is possible to get rid of it with a good policy. However, the aim must be to tackle unemployment, not unemployment. The active model is therefore completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u681	Madam President! I checked the statistics, and the place I come from is Eagle. The unemployment rate was right there, where I got the best statistics from July, 18.2, 4400 unemployed, of which just over 3,000 long-term unemployed, 281 job vacancies, i.e. 16 job seekers per job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u682	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u683	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u684	Mr President! Much has been said about the active model during these three debates, so I will just say what may not be said. The active model is a classic example of the elite's historical prejudice against the poor, which was quite clearly highlighted at the extended first reading. The poor are seen as lazy, impulsive, and immoral, and the supposed material diversity of the poor justifies control, which, if directed at the middle or upper classes, would be a scandal. The law itself is technically unfair and in practice inappropriate, but it also cuts off people who are already at the expense of livelihoods — people who make a tenth of the income of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u685	Madam President! I have spoken of this government's proposal to reject an active model, rather in advance, backwards and almost convex, when it seems that nothing will help. I personally consider this to be a punishment model, but it would be easy to find a way to a genuine active model here. It would be one where all the unemployed who want it would be provided with employment services. It would be one where employment and activity would be calculated, in addition to informal care and family care, for example, voluntary work and a night of voluntary work, just as experts have suggested when dealing with this bill. The active model would also be one where, if successful and self-employed, there would be a small increase, even though the 4.65%, which is now being cut by those who are really active, are looking for work with all their strength, but they are not just finding it. The impossibility of this bill is well illustrated by the fact that we currently have over 270,000 unemployed and over 30,000 free jobs in Finland. It's kind of like trying to stick that glass slipper in every one of our feet. There is no way these 270,000 unemployed people will fit into these 30,000 jobs. It is therefore necessary to support Mr Kiljunen's motion for rejection. Let me just say what many others have to say. We've received a lot of messages and letters. One of the worst has come from a 60-year-old woman who does a lot — volunteer in the SPR, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare and so on — and still feels that her work is useful, and yet the government is going to punish her as well. Where was the caring?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u686	Madam President! We need a labour market policy that encourages and provides support for jobseekers. Depression and punishment for unemployment are not conducive to job search. This amendment of the law further complicates the life situation of many unworked people, and many families now have a great deal of fear of the future. The citizen's feedback we have received can be described as a spontaneous sample of how this model is perceived among the unemployed. There are genuine individual stories about what the life of an unemployed person in Finland is. The draft law, which has been referred to as an active model, is considered to be totally anti-human rights. This is not much more than a proposal to criminalise unemployment. The active model presented does not contribute to the interests of either the state or the unemployed; it is nothing but a nuisance. However, the amendment of the Unemployment Security Act is now being carried forward by a voice from the centre, the Coalition Party and the Blues. In the opposition, no one is in favour of this proposal, and why should it be, an active model when it means that the unemployed person will come next year, if this model is implemented, in practice one card day a month if he is unable to prove that he has been sufficiently active in the job search, even if he has tried to get the job at all possible levels. If we fail to do so, we can cut unemployment benefit by 5%. It's a lot for a low-income person's livelihood. In other words, when unemployment benefit is cut, many people have to rely on income support, which means that they are in the last resort. There is not even a EUR 300 protection component in income support, such as unemployment benefit or housing allowance. It is therefore considered to be the worst possible poverty trap among poverty researchers. In practice, this prevents short-term work from being received. The active model does not take into account the labour market situation of the unemployed person, the health situation or any other situation, including whether the unemployed person can move to seek employment or whether the services of the employment administration are available in his or her municipality or region. Mr President! If the municipality of residence has even cut off the right to day care for unemployed children, there are many problems in actively struggling. However, regardless of these factors, the unemployed who are actively seeking employment can continue to be penalised if the government decides to do so. In the future, according to the Board of Directors, sufficient activity is to be employed for five days or to be in charge of business for five days in some job search training, career training or so on during 65 days. My forecast for 2018: The Labour Market Administration will start organising five-day activation courses for the unemployed. Courses are expensive and are not particularly effective in promoting employment. When these five-day activation courses then have about half of the unemployed, we look at the statistics and say that unemployment has been overcome. Should this be an active new year for all the people soon? I don't think so. I think that activity, if the government's proposal is implemented, will be more of a curse word when combined with this model of humiliation, punishment, impoverishment, which has actually been presented as a change in the Unemployment Protection Act. Mr President! The unemployed cannot afford to choose or to complain; they must accept all the conditions and treatment. The unemployed are without help in the most vulnerable negotiating position. Labour policy is also weak, but it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to change it in a direction that creates opportunities and does not remove them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u687	Mr President! In fact, I asked to speak briefly on three points. First, the whole question of this labour policy — or labour policy, as the previous government Minister for Labour Ihalainen used to say. He advocated an active labour policy that sees the whole issue of work, employment, unemployment and their various intermediate spaces in a different way. And it does seem that this presentation is perhaps the top of the diversity it represents in terms of its human image and basis in relation to the whole thinking on which the Nordic welfare state is based in terms of work and employment. Another reason why I wanted to speak briefly was simply to pay tribute to the dozens and hundreds of people who have indeed written their personal views, stories and petitions to many of us. And perhaps it has been noteworthy that it has not been a question of any "capping and repositioning the text" communication chains, but of numerous and numerous separate personal messages which are still trying to appeal to the representatives in this last few days to change the decision tomorrow morning. And thirdly: I listened to the second part of the first reading which was more frequent in the light of the day, and I must say that I was surprised to hear the debate about how weak I was in this Chamber, especially with regard to the intervention of the forces of the government parties. There was actually no argument in support of the actual proposal itself, and the only way was to monitor the possible problematic effects in the future. And when I myself have been unemployed, as an employer and as an entrepreneur in recent years, I really feel that this debate was, as we sometimes say here, alienated from reality in a way that is certainly cold for both the unemployed and many employers, so let us hope that something surprising has happened tomorrow. In any case, thank you also to those active representatives who have maintained the matter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u688	Madam President! This so-called active model treatment follows, you can say, an already established line. On Friday of the week before yesterday, the matter was brought to first reading at a late sitting beginning at 4 p.m., outside the normal Rules of Procedure of Parliament. It is also normal for the Rules of Procedure to change at times and even on Friday we are sitting on the evening, but now we have the taste of the debate on Friday the other week that the government wanted to bring such a difficult matter to the Parliament in a sitting outside the normal schedule, just because the timetables forced the majority of the MPs to leave the province, but the media was also out of the place where a situation was created, where a difficult matter was brought to Parliament in silence and it is hoped that it will also disappear in the silence of the evening. But he didn't disappear. I made a table-putting motion, and it was also supported. Last Monday, therefore, we got the matter before Parliament's plenary session during the day, not during the evening or night that we are currently living in, and we also got the ministers and the representatives of the government parties. But now we're back in the evening and late at the end of the second reading. A few comments on this issue: My work history is by the head of the Centre for the long-term unemployed and the disabled. Before Parliament, I worked for over a decade with the long-term unemployed, people of different ages, people with disabilities, and during that time I did not have the impression of being unemployed, but vice versa. Having worked with hundreds of people, I had a strong picture of people wanting to work, to buy money, to shop, to come home with a shopping bag, to travel abroad or to engage in business, to earn money and live their lives as a full Finnish person. Only a small number of us fellows accept unemployment as a way of life. But when these issues are discussed on the political side, this turns upside down and is easily given the impression that we now need to use a stick to get people to work. But it is not as easy as that, let alone that it is somehow fair, on the contrary. This is a model in which unemployment is still severely punished and punished by practically cutting unemployment benefit by almost 5%, regardless of whether a person is willing to become employed or active in the way the government proposes to do. So it is a model that treats people unfairly. Labour services, activation services, are also not offered in every locality in Finland, as there is no work either. I myself come from a region of strong unemployment, where unemployment in the city of Lahti has moved between 15% and 18% in recent years, and we have some active measures to offer the unemployed, but not nearly as much as we need them in practice. Overall, this bill is unfair, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also drew attention to it in its own opinion. I am therefore surprised that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health did not put this bill into preparation by the representatives of the government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that the draft law cannot be considered as a problem-free one, and that is quite a strong statement. This bill treats unemployed people completely unfairly, regardless of their own will and without taking into account regional differences in access to employment services or access to employment. On these grounds, I support Mr Kiljune's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u689	Mr President! Unemployment is not a crime. Then it should not be punished either. However, in this proposal, this so-called active model, which the government has brought here and is determined to pass through, it is a question of punishing an unemployed person for not finding a job, regardless of how active he is. Even if he makes numerous applications for employment every day, goes around businesses, calls and actively seeks work, there can still be a situation in which he is punished when he is not found. It can be prevented if you study independently or take courses provided by employment services, but these services are not available everywhere, and on the other hand the unemployed cannot decide for themselves what this self-employed study is, but it is the employment authorities who decide, and so we can indeed be in a situation where the unemployed are punished for being unemployed, even though unemployment is not a crime. Last week, when I was listening to a study of the safety of Finnish young people, what gives rise to an experience of safety, it comes very strongly from the fact that society is equal and fair. That's when young people feel safe. But these same youths also experienced when asked that they had such a feeling that this situation would get worse and that society’s justice and integrity threatened to crumble. And it is no wonder that youths have such feelings when they think about this bill. This is very unfair and does not treat people equally, as should be the case. There have been many wonders about what the image of the government is like when it brings such proposals here and the fact that the dismantling of standards which the government has been very concerned with during its term of office does not apply to everyone but only to those who are well-off. And here, unfortunately, is an example of how we really create different new standards and rules for these most vulnerable people, while at the same time talking about how they should be dismantled. On the other hand, I find it startling during this debate to note also the fact that it is justified that this cut is only a few tens, a small amount of money, and what it means. However, we know that for a large number of people it really matters a lot in everyday life, for those who already have the same struggle to cope with everyday life in some places. If it is still pinching a few tens of income, it will show up, and just as has come out here, then you drop on the side of income support, which is harder to get up from. I would also like to thank all of us for the many contacts we have had with this law, the daily stories, the real life stories, and I would like to wish that we Members of Parliament had read them all carefully and seriously and actually met the people and the message they have wanted to tell us, because it is our job here to ensure that we treat everyone in a uniform and equal way, not as we are now doing in this model, that a person, quite regardless of what he is doing, may be subjected to such unjust punishment, which cannot be affected by himself. This is an extremely bad and unfair proposal, and the Greens cannot support this in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u690	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already ten o'clock in the morning and we are discussing an extremely important issue here. I would have liked to have seen a little more government parties here to discuss. Many unemployed people will certainly watch their nights in the same way as we do now, but they often watch because of the stress and concern about how to make a living for their families. The proposals made by this government have at least not reduced the concerns of the unemployed. I brought reinforcements with me. You can borrow the Book of Fundamental Rights from the Library of Parliament. Of course, I was sorry that it was out there in the library. I would have liked this book to have been in the portfolio of Minister of Employment Lindström. In fact, there are such good guidelines in this book that I would like them to be followed after this debate, when it has already been said on several occasions this evening that the Constitutional Committee has pointed out that this law is not without problems. There are many points in our Constitution that refer to work and employment. One of the most important points there is the statement that 'public authorities must promote employment and seek to safeguard everyone's right to work'. In fact, we come to the whole philosophy that this government has somehow forgotten: unemployment is not the fault of people. It is the result of a failure of economic policy in Finland and in Europe as a whole, but no country has achieved growth and employment cuts. In other words, no country has achieved growth and employment through cutting. It is not possible in Finland either, but on the contrary, the government should comply with the Finnish Constitution, which says that public authorities must promote employment and seek to safeguard everyone's right to work. There are ways of doing this, for example, in the debate that took place today on transport policy on how many different transport investments work. The government should do more and employ people through this. Similarly, it says here that 'public authority has a general obligation under the Constitution to ensure the implementation of fundamental rights and human rights'. And this has been in the many, many e - mails and paper letters from unemployed people to us parliamentarians. The fact that people feel that they have lost their human rights with these government proposals is a matter of concern to them. And this is, you know, absolutely shocking. What right does the government have to give Finnish people such a feeling that they are not protected by their human rights and their fundamental rights? Unemployment benefit is one of the fundamental rights that is guaranteed to people: if you do not have work, you can still live in Finland. Finland has also been informed on several occasions about the EU Social Rights Committee that we have too low basic incomes: unemployment benefit, small pensions, income support. They are too low already. People cannot manage and pay for normal everyday things, food, bills, hobbies and so on at the moment, and now the government is still cutting this. So I consider this word 'active' to be a word trickery, a clever word translation behind which, as positive as the word 'active' is, attempts are being made to hide this negative thing. The active model is, frankly, a punitive, unfair cut in unemployment security for the unemployed, and it is a real violation of the equality of our citizens. I absolutely believe that the law must be rejected, and even now I support Mr Kiljune's proposal that this law should be rejected. At some point here, they said that people should not be defeated. I think it was Mr Savio who said that. I couldn't agree more. So we must together, as a parliament, overcome the recession, but we must not defeat people. That should be the focus of all government policy now. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health heard many experts, and one was memorable. The expert came from the Kainuu Employment and Economic Development Office, and I thought there were two very important things in that statement. The second was that if unemployed job seekers continue to be more and more subject to work trials in order to meet the obligation to engage in activity — since we do not have enough pay bases to direct the unemployed, so many of them have been led to work trials that do not pay — then employers will receive a significant amount of free labour. It can be estimated that this will lead to abuse of the workforce, and the government's proposal's objective of improving employment will not be realised either. Let me remind you of all these kikys and others that this government has put forward, so even this idea of background here may come to our minds: is it really the intention to give companies more and more free labour? Then the second is this — and I understand very well that the expert from Kainuu is expressing his concern about it: we have people in an unequal position, depending on their place of residence and the opportunities there for employment and access to services. In other words, it is quite right to ask whether there are sufficient employment and employment-promoting services available in all areas of Finland and whether this will lead to regional inequalities between us, Finnish citizens. I think that is what this proposal is going to lead to, and it is really worrying that this is a centre-led government. I, who have always been a supporter of red soil — I come from a sparsely populated region in Eastern Finland myself — would have expected a centre-run government to believe that the whole country should be treated equally and that the equality of people should be promoted regardless of their place of residence. I believe that this law should be rejected and that it should actually begin to employ people so that employment appropriations are allocated to third-sector pay subsidies, and the ceiling for this 3000 person-years should be removed immediately, immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u691	Madam President! That was a good and comprehensive speech by Mr Taavitsainen just before me. Mr President! It is a sad thing that we are here in the middle of Christmas to discuss such a tough bill that punishes the unemployed for not having been able to work for three months despite their will or efforts. E - mails have certainly come in abundance to each of us MPs. I myself have received about 150 of them, and when you read those messages, it does hurt when a single mother tells me that she is worried about this Christmas, how to celebrate Christmas with her child and family, whether there will still be enough food for next year and whether this 5% sanction for the family will come on top of this already very tight life situation. The latest e-mail to myself came in 26 minutes past midnight, that is, this day, when we will be voting on this issue in the morning. Again, if it is possible, I appeal to the members of the board of directors not to adopt the law in this matter. In recent weeks we have had a lot of discussions about inequality, and since the Fourth of July we had a colorful debate about inequality here during these dark hours of the night. The government did not fall, but we strongly raised the opposition's unequal policy, and here, if there is one of the saddest examples of our concern about inequality, it is true. People are being led into an increasingly difficult situation. With regard to this government's proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also pointed out that it is not a problem. There is a paragraph in the Constitution which, as a result of Sakari Knuuttila's work, has been added to the Constitution that every person has a constitutional right to work. In today's Finland and by this government, that constitutional right does not come true for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u692	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u693	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u694	Madam President! This is the government's policy of breaking standards. This is where the government is trying to dismantle the obstacles that have so far prevented the cut in the daily allowance for the unemployed, and we are now making these policies here. This activity has been used to conceal the fact that it is in a way a reduction in the daily allowance for unemployed persons and, at the same time, to blame them for not getting a job done or not being able to take action if they are living on the side. This will displace many unemployed people and alienate them from working life. I do not think that this model is a good and proper approach to this issue. There have been many messages from the unemployed to all of us in the House. One touching was this, and I stayed to think that this kind of thing can come in front of you: We talked about a part-time, unemployed, family-like person with several children. Said that if it comes to this kind of measure, where one should go along with it, then the first question is that when in the municipality where he lives, subjective day care is limited, then he cannot get his children to care because part-time day care has four weeks queues. This automatically means that the daily allowance will fall and that even the minimum standard of living will fall from it. I still felt bad about Christmas when I thought about how to give those many children the gifts and other measures and the needed Christmas spirit. It's a very difficult place for people like this to go. In my opinion, there are so many things to interpret in this active model that are unclear that I think I should reject the whole proposal, and I support Mr Kiljune's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u695	Madam President! Many have said that we have received a great deal of e-mail about this. I haven't counted the e-mails that came out, but I'm sure I wouldn't misjudge a lot if I thought there were about a hundred of them. However, if there have been a hundred, I have not received a hundred different e - mails, but there have been a considerable number of e - mails that resemble each other up to sentence structures. Some kind of active campaign, and perhaps even some kind of coordination, seems to be behind it. I do not know which party has coordinated it, but I am sure that it has at least contributed to the fuel that has been produced around this bill, even if you follow the argument that appears in those miles. They deal with this bill as unilaterally as the opposition in its public speeches deals with it, actively forgetting, for example, that, at the same time, there is also a reduction in the period of responsibility for unemployment from 7 to 5 days. At the same time, the government strives to make it more profitable to apply for work one step further than it does in its own corner. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also been invoked on several occasions. Indeed, it is worth reading the opinions of the Constitutional Committee. It is worth reading them in their entirety and understanding the role of the Constitutional Committee. Above all, it will assess whether the law can be enacted in the order in which the ordinary law is enacted and will address all the points in the draft law where there are possible fundamental rights or constitutional links. It can say that it is without problems, it can say that it is not without problems, it can say that it is problematic, or it can say that it is very problematic. In conclusion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will then state whether the draft law is to be adopted in the order in which the ordinary law is to be adopted. In this case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it is possible to legislate in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u696	Madam President! Indeed, there have been at least a hundred of these messages and a little fair and also familiar, relatives and personally from their region. At least these messages from people from their own neighbourhood and region have reflected on the current situation, which is how the employment services currently operate, how labour market training has worked and how different the differences between the Employment and Economic Development Offices in our region are — huge differences. For example, the Pirkanmaa TE Office has received a comment from the Parliamentary Ombudsman on its own activities a few times. I believe that the unemployed have, in a way, been breaded to seek work through its TE Office, and through various projects they have also gone for work. So these letters also had a little bit of copy-washed things, but very hard fates. That fear is probably absolutely essential, how the future is done, how to get work done, so we should invest even more in the development of this current system. This motion itself — during the performances I calculated that at least 20 different adjectives and phrases were found with which the opposition wanted to drag down this one of ours. It must have earned the critical side of this opposition on this issue, but that is what we will be looking at tomorrow. Indeed, the representative has already pointed out that 70 to 80 % of the unemployed are going to win, but indeed there is concern about these long-term unemployed and others, and we must do so in the Parliament and also in the Employment and Economic Development Offices and Regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u697	Mr President! I would like to say one more thing, because there is also a run-in in this proposal that unemployed people do not have the opportunity to be consulted, which makes it impossible for them to find out why the obligation of activity has not been fulfilled, and I do consider this lack of consultation to be contrary to good governance. I still appeal to this book, Fundamental Rights — a thick, weighty book, which also states that it is always necessary to give the person of the administrative authority the interpretation option that best contributes to the realisation of fundamental human rights. This is not the case now, if people do not even hear why it has happened that they have not been able to demonstrate that there has not been enough work or services there. But I would like to finish by saying that I am very pleased with these messages and I hope that the messages that people, the citizens, have now received, are going to continue, because Mr Lindström's proposals are not all there yet, but he is currently preparing for more discipline against the unemployed, and next spring is coming this second stage of this active model, which apparently is coming up with this, that in three months we will have to apply for at least twelve jobs and report on the Internet every week at the risk of carnage. I very much hope that the unemployed people will be activated to send messages to us parliamentarians throughout this winter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u698	Madam President! We have to make a little noise about this straight-up attitude of government representatives. You say that this is a good proposal insofar as this period of responsibility for the unemployed is reduced from 7 to 5, but at the very beginning of your term of government you were just about to raise it from 5 to 7 and now, as it were, you come to a zero-sum game on top of this sanction, which is much more punishing. The fact is that this proposal is regionally unequal. We do not have jobs and labour services in the same way everywhere in Finland. People can't even get a job interview, even if there's a will. When a person fails and does not get a job even if he wants to, there is still a so - called fine for this failure, and it just cannot sink my mind. The most amazing thing about this proposal is that this has been calculated to have an impact on the cost of income support and it is estimated that the cost of income support will increase by EUR 10 million and also the cost of housing by EUR 4 million. I can't quite understand what the point of this proposal is to drive people there to last-minute income security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u699	Madam President! If you think about the financial implications of this proposal, it is probably somewhat cost-neutral, precisely because the package also includes this active model in terms of cutting off one head, but also shortens the period of ownership, when it is not actually considered to be strict in euro, but it creates a certain incentive to seek more actively work outside its own neighbourhood, which will then also be promoted through mobility assistance, as a whole, when you look at the policy that the government is doing here. If we look at it in a broader social sense again, the worst is, of course, if unemployment persists and is driven into long-term unemployment. It is precisely because of this that it is particularly important that there are sufficient incentive mechanisms to apply for and be active in work, even if a little shorter, and that we are also prepared to seek work a little longer than in the immediate vicinity of our own neighbourhood. Of course, it is true that there are different kinds of work available throughout the country, but we should encourage people to look for work in a slightly wider area than in their own region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u700	Mr President! In a somewhat disapproving tone, the government representatives have just said that some of the tens of letters, if not hundreds of letters that each Member of Parliament has received in recent days, have been copied from others and there has clearly been some kind of campaign going on here. Why would this be in any way reprehensible or reprehensible? This is the only chance for citizens and helpless people to try to influence the painful things about themselves when they feel completely desperate, and that is why I thought that I would read three stories from these numerous letters, which, at least, are not copied from anyone else but clearly from the author himself. Perhaps because that part of the government in this Chamber seems to be completely empty, or even so, it would perhaps be appropriate to hear these reports now at the latest. Of course, it is sad that the experiences of these experienced experts are now being told at night, in the middle of the night, when just no one is listening, but on the other hand it is quite descriptive and quite appropriate because, in the light of day, these people are not wanted to be heard and none of them have been invited to the hairdressing meetings of Minister Lindström. First story: "I suffered from Asperger's syndrome, but I am considered unemployed. I'm trained in two professions, but it's still hard for me to get a job. For most of the jobs I am unfit for, for example, because of a driving licence or a lack of necessary training, and the jobs I am suitable for are very competitive. Once I've been in an employment relationship that would have lasted over a year, but I was fired within a month and a half. Otherwise, I've never been in a permanent employment relationship. For my adult life, I've been studying, working short hours and being unemployed. I'm sure there are other people who have a destiny similar to mine. Although I have been able to work for a month since January next year, my further employment seems unlikely. The active model is unfair to all unemployed people, but especially to me and my colleagues." Here was the first nightly story for the empty part of the government. Second story: "I have two occupations, but I have been completely incapacitated for 12 years. I suffer from a rare illness that causes chronic, severe pain. This is not yet considered to be a real disease, although in the case of most people, like me, the disease is driving into a wheelchair. Nevertheless, I still do not get a sickness pension or employment, and then you dare to ‘activate’ such a long-term unemployed person who will never work that way, and otherwise I will not get along. Focus on creating opportunities and not removing them. It's so cruel." Third report: 'My husband is long-term unemployed. I myself have three vocational schools with more than one child, currently on parental leave, which means that the economy is tight, even though I work a couple of times a month under the conditions of additional income that we can manage. But even this Christmas, we still had to rely on relatives and the social welfare board. I am afraid of whether I will be offered any permanent employment after a year’s time when I return to what is known as normal working life. We live in a small town where we moved from the stress of a big city, but this small town doesn’t even provide temporary jobs. A lot of jobs can only be done with relationships, as I did myself. Entrepreneurship cannot be considered for many reasons, even if the will may exist. In my life, I have not yet come across a person who wants only to lie unemployed with subsidies, but why should the unemployed be punished if the simple reason is that there is no work in such a small town? Nor can my husband drive a car because of his back, or even sit on a bus long distances to another place, let alone have any money to maintain the car for the unemployed. The unemployed need support and work to get back to work, but both are cut constantly. School places also continue to decline because we cannot afford to hire teachers. This is not the way to get new workers. We are in a vicious circle unless we make changes in a more rational direction. I'm not smart enough to know what, but swinging a stick will only get people against me. Would it be better to spend money on creating new jobs by supporting more private entrepreneurship and making it easier?" Finally, Mr President, this third time tells us a case, not just of itself, because people are concerned not only about their own livelihoods or their own plight, but about the fates of others, even strangers. This writer says: "When I was an intern, I was accompanied by a high school student for a day. I asked him what he was gonna do after school. He didn't know. He had dreams, but learning to dream doesn't mean he has a job. He wanted to stay in his home, but he knew when he was 18, there wasn't a job. This is how society supports young people today: by flattening their dreams in the bud. Without dreams we can do nothing new." People in such a difficult situation are talking about dreams, and we in the good people here are only talking about flight.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u701	Mr President! I am responsible for comforting the few representatives of the government about the retention of the period of ownership. Even if, in euro terms, zero levels are reached as to how this law does not work, it will not be a neutral reform if those unemployed who are in the best position on the labour market in any case — those who have become unemployed, many of whom are linked to earnings — are cut back on their own time, while, on the other hand, the most likely group who suffers from this active model and have the least chance of being employed are the people who are there with the basic daily allowance or labour market support and whose income is the lowest. If, for example, Mr Rydman is taken out of the reward of EUR 10000 and given to Mr Kontula, then even though the cost of Parliament is neutral, Mr Rydman believes that this is not likely to be a neutral project. I have no idea how, after all these discussions, someone still imagines that putting people under income support would somehow activate or encourage anything. Then either you listen to nothing or you don't know our system at all if you don't understand the mechanism, how the bureaucracy trap works. Then I would also like to remind you that a significant proportion of the unemployed are people who do not write things for a living, and it may already be sending a message to the Members of Parliament behind quite a lot of hard work. If it has recently been copy-pasted, then I think it should rather be said that they actually sent a message, but we all know that in this house, too, people who make a full-time policy make their texts copy-paste quite a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u702	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Harakka, for bringing up the stories of the people and getting them recorded in the Minutes of this plenary session. Those stories you read sounded like they were listening to Pekka Saurin's Nightline. Mr Rydman: I would like to ask your opinion on the government's policy on regional policy. You just said that people have to move after work. Well, that means everyone's starting to run down here in the capital region. There's not enough housing for everyone here, and there's more expensive living costs. And it's not so easy just to leave your own home, either. However, everyone wants to live there in their own home, and it is not easy to leave there after work. People usually try to do everything they can to get those jobs from where they live. So is the government's regional policy now entirely the case that everything is here in the capital region? Do you really not also try to think that we need to get those investments and jobs all over Finland, in all the regions, at least in the provincial centres, so that people can also move within the province from there to the central city, where they can still live in their own home? And to conclude, we should, in this employment policy, take a model from Sweden, where there are considerably more workers in labour management to serve the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u703	It is a very late night, but I would still remind you of the rule in this Chamber that other representatives are called.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u704	Madam President! Mr Harakka asked what was wrong with sending copy-pasteted messages, and Mr Kontula also said that there has been quite a number of copy-pasteted messages there. There's nothing wrong with that. It's okay to do that. It is a very possible way of making a campaign, but, similarly, if this is the method of its campaign, then it is certainly not worth making a great deal of sense either, as some of the speeches suggested, that it would be something of a particularly spontaneous movement of people, when it clearly appears that it is at least at some level that a little has been helped to push this campaign forward. I am the wrong person to be responsible for the government's regional policy in Taavitsainen, but in general and for my part, I say that jobs in the post-industrial society tend, of course, to concentrate specifically on more densely populated areas, and this is, of course, a social development which is probably not quickly translated and perhaps not necessary by political decisions. And I am sure this is the case that, in principle, people are primarily seeking work close to their own region, and this is quite right and it may well be so, there is nothing wrong with it. But if there is not enough work to be done in that area, at all times before a social state as large as we are now living in, it has been the custom to go and find work where it can be found, and I do not think it is so unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u705	Mr President! As has been said many times in this sitting, the unemployed are in great need of their situation, and that is precisely why these messages have come to us parliamentarians in dozens, even hundreds, of them. I would also like the representatives of the government parties to take these messages seriously. I believe they are written in a very serious way. There is still time for this decision, overnight as you sleep, and perhaps you will be able to make a morally lasting and reasonable decision, a decision that you will also be able to sleep well at Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u706	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u707	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u708	Mr President! Representative for Rydman: Woe to you, young man, may your privileged life. Let it be noted in the Minutes: silent laughter about Mr Rydman's chair. This is a funny thing for you, which is a matter of suffering for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Finns. I just pointed out to you that the letters are not copied from each other. You did not hear these three stories, the stories of individuals about their unique lives. You see these people, not as individuals, each unique, but only as a number of parts, a mass. You are just pointing out this fundamental problem: how low-paid, over-worked labour officers who make such decisions on the conveyor belt could meet these needs individually with their own needs, let alone help them. Are you still smiling, Congressman Rydman?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u709	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u710	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u711	Madam President! I'll take this message from Mr. Savio. This has also become a message to our Regional Union that these projects can continue. Indeed, this has produced good results. These statistics have already been cleaned up and, for example, there have been 250 fewer unemployed people in the Sastamala region than there were in the statistics, so that perhaps this also illustrates what the level of government has been. Even Mr Taavitsainen raised the problem of the periphery of the provinces, that we have had different governments focusing on our services. As I recall from our region, the Mänttä-Vilppula region, which is at the border between Central Finland and Pirkanmaa, the TE Office network was significantly reduced, two people think there are, and the city itself has eight people in this employment unit at the moment. So that concern is very important in what way those people — it is 100 kilometres to Tampere — can leave what are the connections. Fortunately, the news came out today that the trains run even better, the unemployed can reach it then, 5 euros 10 cents from Mänttä-Vilppula to Tampere. But what is important is that the personal service should be close by. In some ways, as an old regional developer, I miss the fist that solved our region's affairs. It was the head of the Employment Office, the business agent, the mayor, the director of the business organisation and the director of the upper secondary education union, which was the problem that was able to solve. If we had a shortage of labour, we went to the labour market, but then we were able to manage that training and employment system. In other words, when these experiments were carried out, they would be given the autonomy and vitality of these regions after the development of these new administrations. I would like to flag this, for example, that we could have some other system after this labour experiment in Pirkanmaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u712	Mr President! Here I waited moderately for that section of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which started at 12 noon, to come closer to the follow-up, but not to continue so that we would then continue the debate on this, because Mr Rydman was able to make a small comment. The comment that it was not a popular movement when these unemployed people sent letters shows that, unfortunately, you do not quite get to the skin to understand what it is about when a person is unemployed. Especially if he has been unemployed for a long time, and especially if he has had a lot of years and many failures in life, that life is so difficult from the point of departure that those unemployed people are not interested in sending emails to Mr Rydman any more than many others. You have to be grateful that you even get some e-mails from a congressman so that you can gradually begin to understand what this is all about. These unemployed, who are unemployed for years, are rotated from one course to another and into various rehabilitation measures, even if they are over 50 years old. It's a lot of humiliation over a long period of time. I have heard so many stories from both young and older people that they are humiliated at the TE Centre from the janitor who puts them in order when he cannot wait hours to even talk to anyone. Secondly, you don't just look for a job where you can find it. The farther you live from the growth centers, the harder it is to get a job. These are the questions that we decision-makers should understand. This is not a mass that can be steered like a herd of cattle somewhere on hatch A and hatch B, where there is a procedure, and if he does not go along with that herd, then it will be shown that he is a lazy person or in some other way a detractive person. I understand the active measures for the unemployed, but the fact that we do not understand the need for individual services and the situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u713	Madam President! Now I have to admit that I did not quite understand the logic of Mr Nikon's speech, when he said that it should now be understood that these unemployed people are not able to send any e-mails to us parliamentarians. Well, then, who are these people who have sent us emails? Yes, I understand that they are the right people and that at least that name has been changed to each message. I would tend to believe that it is a very personal name, even if the text above it is borrowed from somewhere else. However, I will come back to what Mr Harakka said there. He resented the fact that I laughed at the start of his speech and then interpreted it after I laughed at the situation of the unemployed. No, I did laugh, Mr Harakka, at the very beginning of your speech, which went so far as to say 'Woe to you, young privileged man' towards me. I do not know what you wanted to underline when you raised my age or age or age group in it — perhaps inexperience or incompetence to carry out my task. I don't know what you meant, but you weren't boys. No, it's not like I'm a boy or a girl, if it feels better, I'm not offended by that kind of rhetoric, but it's funny enough that it's no wonder it's a little funny. At least I wish that, even if I have grown up to be so experienced as you, Mr Harakka, I would not have forgotten at that point that underlining such matters does not necessarily give a particularly clever picture in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u714	Mr President! I noticed that you were laughing there during my earlier speech in the toilet when I read these human life scenes. That's what I reacted to. Maybe it's just part of your style, that the more tragic stories and the more tragic fates, the more laughs. Mr Zyskowicz has wisely said that everyone has the right to his or her own opinions but not to his or her own facts. I shall continue to do so in such a way that every Member of Parliament has the right to our own truth but not to our own reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u715	Mr President! Mr Rydman, you are now squirming about what I said or how you want to interpret it. I was talking specifically about the fact that you are apparently not being adequately informed about the daily lives of the unemployed, because you clearly underestimated them when you mentioned that it is not a matter of popular movement. In other words, by this you referred to the fact that these unemployed people have not been able to convince enough members of the Assembly that this unemployment is a serious issue, and the depth of it and the problems it is facing. Unfortunately, this image was left to me too, even though I was sitting by for an hour and a half following this debate between you two. That's it. That's it. However, I hope that we in this Parliament, together, can find those creative ways of getting these unemployed people to work. And one thing is certainly that the coaching and guidance activities for the work of the TE Centre will be renewed. I do not believe that we are outsourcing companies to find that job and that that would be the only solution to the matter when the government is now doing this new legislation in other respects. Of course, companies take all the money that the government gives them, and then they give them a course, and they make them fill out their applications and stick them somewhere in a job tube. It is good if it succeeds for a large part or even for some, but it is not the answer to this overall issue of long-term unemployment in the background and other problems. In that sense, I would like to see a broad brush set in motion to correct this opportunity for unemployed people to get jobs and not to belittle the distress calls that we each get here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u716	Madam President! First of all, for Mrs Haraka: there must be 200 different styles in this Chamber, and what kind of appreciation or reactions different styles in rhetorical or substantive terms give rise to, then the voter can judge for each representative. For example, I very much appreciate the way Mr Kontula handles matters analytically without assuming that other people might have motives or human images or others, focusing on what the government is proposing and arguing for or against it in this case. Thank you, Mr Niiko, for clarifying his thoughts. However, I would see that the government is seeking to find different ways of encouraging work, accepting work and always receiving work, doing work and applying for work in a large picture would be more profitable in Finland than idleness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u717	Mr President! However, I would now like to refer this debate back to this issue itself, and I would like to point out that the Social Barometer, published in 2017, this year, interviewed the leaders of the TE Offices and asked their views on what will improve employment, raised such questions. These leaders of the Employment and Economic Development Offices reported that they felt that the lowest rates of employment were the reduction in the level and duration of unemployment security, stronger sanctions for those who refused unemployment benefit, and the privatisation of employment services. The leaders of the Employment and Economic Development Offices do not believe that sanctions will improve employment. As Mr Pirttila has just praised the expertise of the leaders of the TE Office and hoped for help in that vitality in his locality, I do believe that the leaders of the TE Offices know quite well what is conducive to employment. It has been strongly said that they do not believe that reducing the level of unemployment security would contribute to employment. I would have liked the government to have listened to the experts here too, as has been the case with many other laws today, in the Alcohol Act, for example, the same thing that the experts should have been consulted on, that this law should have listened to those who are working on employment policy and know something about it, and their expertise would have been used in the preparation of this law. Surely this too could have become one who would have gone further in this Chamber in another way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u718	Mr President! Mr Rydman, I too continue to express the hope that you will take this genuine need for the unemployed as seriously as possible. I appreciate you as a politician. You have many good points of view in many policy areas. I too am very much in agreement with some of the points you have made in the public domain, but with regard to this active model of unemployment security, which you have so much defended here, your point of view is very different from mine. I fear that you have a slightly blind spot at this point now, you may have achieved quite a lot at a young age and you are a well-educated person. It may be that you are not quite genuinely able to see the situation of others, those who have done worse in life. I myself am absolutely sure that a very large proportion of Finnish unemployed people would genuinely like to find work and get to work, but they have not been able to do so despite a hard effort. They have not yet had any luck getting rid of unemployment. People have different backgrounds. Many people, some people, have illnesses, others have other difficulties in life that hinder getting a job. The fact that, unfortunately, this bill of law continues to undermine the self-esteem of many unemployed people is certainly not helping. Mr Rydman, I sincerely hope that as the coalition government party, too, we will look for genuine incentives to reduce unemployment, and that the unemployed can genuinely improve their situation through employment, rather than employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u719	Madam President! I thank Mr Savio for his fine words. I myself have also found that we share many of the same views on a number of issues, including some of them, and that is why we are in different parties. However, I do not assume that you have blind points in matters where we disagree, but I believe that different ideological and value considerations will come to different conclusions, and that is why we here are divided into different parties. But on this matter itself: Having guessed after the image of the government, my own human image is at least such that man is a rational being that responds to incentives and acts according to them, and if there are financial incentives for a more active search for work, then it is likely that they will affect action and then, in many cases, it will lead to better employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u720	Mr President! When the time ran out, I will continue with this social barometer this year, where the leaders of the TE Offices were interviewed. It also asked what things they see as improving employment most, and they, the leaders of the Employment and Economic Development Offices, see that investment in education, research and development will improve employment most in Finland and that the expansion of employment services will also improve employment. Yes, we have talked about education today, and even tonight the subject of the Ministry of Education's administrative sector continues, and the cuts in education have been one of the worst measures to reduce employment in Finland. I would also like to mention this cut in early childhood education that the children of the unemployed have been cut off from the right to early childhood education, which will weaken the employment of these children in the future, but it will also weaken the opportunity for these parents to be active at the moment, when their children do not have the full-time right to early childhood education, which, of course, will not be able to attend any active activities or services or gigs. I would like to see a complete turnaround for this policy of the government, namely to invest in education, early childhood education and development, to expand employment services and to stop undermining people's basic security and these repressive policies. I'd rather have a carrot than a stick.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u721	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u722	Mr President! This is therefore the third part of this huge package, which the opposition in itself agreed with, apart from this one detail, which has also been discussed a great deal in this Chamber, namely certain tax increases and other sanctions for tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, which can be considered too modest and even encouraging to try out what might happen in this grey area. At first reading, however, when the content of this law was finalised, we will be working together to present the SDP, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the Finns of Peru to Parliament's approval in accordance with the objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u723	Mr President! In this report by the Tax Section, the parties together have paid particular attention to the reduction in the tax increase included in the government proposal, particularly in the case of aggressive tax planning. This sends the wrong signal that the reform favours tax evaders. At its worst, this will lead to a general relaxation of tax morality and an increase in the number of non-compliances. In this text of protest, which is included in this report, we parties together mention that current taxation and case law reflect the fact that it may be impossible to apply the upper end of the penalty scale without the precise criteria set out in the law and in the government proposal. The tax administration can currently impose a tax increase of between 0 and 30 % in relation to the amount of the tax correction in the most significant cases. However, practice has shown that these tax increases have not exceeded 7%, even when the failure has been large in euro and has shown very obvious negligence. This problem has not been removed in the government proposal and it is therefore obvious that the increased tax increase would be set at 3% in many cases. And this is the problem in a nutshell that the government did not take seriously in the work of the committee, and that is why this objection has been raised jointly. In this speech, I support the seven objections proposed by Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u724	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u725	Mr President! In itself, this rather bureaucratic-sounding title includes one of the longest and perhaps most significant political armistices that have taken place in this Chamber during this period, and that is management registration. After all, at this final stage, that long-standing management registration at the yard had to be brought here under pressure from the assembly, and the irony was that, after months, if not years, it had been established that the criticisms and problems of the opposition were not real, then, in the end, it was precisely the questions that were attempted to be answered by these statements which were finally received in this management registration legislation. And here is now the first part of this patching. A second patch may be expected next year, and then we will only be able to assess, possibly not even during this parliamentary term, whether the publicity of the holdings was made at all to the current extent before this management registration or whether it will be difficult to hide the property of Finnish companies more easily in tax havens or not. This still only answers the question that the beneficiaries of the companies, the beneficiaries of dividends, may be exposed, but in the event of extradition, the recipients of the transfers are still not brought up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u726	Madam President! Indeed, this is a materially large package of laws, and this is, among other things, the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, during this process, this whole package of laws must have undergone a hundred changes. Here we still have a strong debate on this role of crowdfunding. But, as we say in those texts of the report, the crowdfunding law will be reformed next spring and will then be further strengthened. But this is the show we're going to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u727	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u728	Mr President! On Friday, we voted on this draft law restricting the legal activities of municipalities and joint municipal boards when the preparation of the social welfare reform is still poorly prepared by the government. The fact that the government is seriously conversing with the formulation of this reform has caused the municipalities a great deal of trouble and concern about the future of the social services provided on their territory. This has led many municipalities to find solutions that would otherwise not necessarily have taken place at all. The main concerns of municipalities concern, among other things, the continued use of real estate and the maintenance of on-call services in their neighbouring areas. This has put serious pressure on, among other things, the outsourcing of social services and the sale of municipal property, and there have already been serious examples of these, which have also been discussed in public. In the future, the Government must provide municipalities with peace of work in the area of social welfare reform. Mr President! I would therefore like to make the following statement: "The government requires that the on-call regulation be reviewed without delay by the government and that a compensation model be created for redundant municipal properties so that, for these reasons, municipalities and joint municipal authorities do not need to outsource social and health services or sell real estate."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u729	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u730	Mr President! This is a very necessary law in this situation where we have seen that the prevailing environment is driving municipalities to make decisions that do not serve the social interests behind the forthcoming reform. Of course, it would have been more elegant when we all share this common concern that the matter could also be dealt with unanimously in Parliament. But, of course, I understand certain political pressures. The most important thing, of course, is that a good law can be brought to the finish line within the time frame set out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u731	Mr President! Indeed, the law is very timely and proper. Many municipalities currently have different plans for different properties and others, and private parties have also very strongly approached municipalities with different motives. There is every reason to consider, within the framework of this law and from the point of view of this law, how our elys will be in future social legislation and how real estate and other structures will be made to work, as this new legislation should take forward. It should also be noted that this legislation only concerns outsourcing and real estate transactions on its own platform. Those who have done them in the past are not affected, but I hope that they too will be as conducive as possible to the needs of this new model of social and regional services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-18-ps-144.u732	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 16th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 23/2017 will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
