ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u5	Madam President! I very much welcome the fact that this government proposal has finally been brought before Parliament. This new tendering system is part of the implementation of the Government's climate and energy strategy, and of course the aim is to bring more renewable energy, renewable electricity and more cost-effective electricity to the Finnish electricity market. Indeed, this is a more efficient and cost-effective system than the old feed-in tariff system, and I welcome the fact that this has included the possibility of success in other forms of production than just the wind, which is also important. After all, this government proposal mentions that new power plants, including wind, biogas, wood fuel, solar and wave power, have the opportunity to participate in this invitation to tender. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that CHP production could also succeed in this as far as new capacity is being built. Combined heat and power production, from which heat is used as district heat, is indeed one of the most efficient, including the most climate-friendly ways of using biomass, and that is why I welcome it and hope that it will also succeed in this new bidding process. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that renewable energy capacity is increasing, especially in the wind and hopefully also in the sun, that we need adjustment mechanisms, that we need demand response. I therefore hope that this Smart Network Group, which is now considering the development of the electricity market, will take serious account of this demand response and its promotion on market terms and also through legislative measures. This is needed as renewable energy capacity increases in electricity generation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u6	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! A new system to support renewable energy is a good thing. It is crucial to achieving our climate objectives. It is a new system which will be interesting to follow up in committee. The proposal states that projects located in Åland cannot be included in the aid scheme. According to the Åland Act of Self-Government, business support falls within the competence of Åland. However, there are no legal obstacles to support for Åland's projects and to include them in this system if there is only political will. This political will should be found, as the whole country would benefit from the participation of Åland's projects. The Government of Åland has very limited resources to support this type of investment itself. Last time the wind power support system was being prepared, when Mauri Pekkarinen was the minister concerned, it was clear that there were no legal obstacles. It was also explained by the Constitutional Committee, which stated in its Opinion 72/2014 that there are no legal obstacles to Åland's participation. I therefore hope that a small amendment will be made to the draft law, which will allow for the support of projects in Åland through the new system. This would support the Smart Energy Island project launched by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, together with Åland, with the support of Tekes and Finpro, among others. Many Finnish companies also participate in this project, which aims to use Åland as a test area and as a demonstration space for Finnish technological innovations that can become new export products. These would support the Finnish economy while promoting innovation around the world to reduce climate emissions. This is an extremely important issue. The support for Åland's projects is also supported by the fact that Åland's projects can be very effective because Åland winds the most in the whole country. The number of sunny hours is also highest. This, on the other hand, is a good prerequisite for cost-effective projects that help Finland achieve its international climate goals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u7	Madam President! I will focus mainly on a few points in this bill: The first concerns the genuine objective of technological neutrality to increase the production of clean energy, renewable energy in Finland. This is an excellent objective, and there is no criticism of it. But when it comes to technology neutrality, for example, one thing has been raised here: this does not include hydropower. It is good to discuss this issue of hydropower here in Parliament. There is also small hydropower production and the like. The question was that we want to produce clean energy to Finland as cost-effectively as possible, and in this respect I believe that this too must be openly raised here in Parliament. If the point of view is that hydropower cannot be produced in Finland, there are other ways to prevent it from being produced. But does it also need to be involved if and when it is likely to be a very cost-effective means of producing renewable, clean energy? The second question is that we need to discuss here how cost-effectively we can act. After all, this model is now considerably better than the previous one, which strongly supported wind power. It became more common, and it was taken forward, and that is very nice. But the question is that over the next seven years we will be paying very high subsidies to wind power, and it has already been shown that wind power is perhaps the most cost-effective way to produce without subsidies. That is great, but the question now is that we will look closely at the maximum costs, especially as we are dealing with 12 years of support in the proposal. In that respect, one of the topics for discussion may be whether it should be this long. Fortunately, certain restrictions have been imposed on it in that this annual aid budget does not go too far. The third point I would like to raise concerns the issue of bioenergy. Now, for example, this proposal does not solve the challenge currently faced by Finnish sawmills, that Finnish sawmills are in a certain way outside the support instruments, when another form of energy, such as in this case forest chips, is in a different position. After all, we should find models of this kind that place different bio-based residues, for example, on an equal footing, and, of course, waste at once. And the second question is what will happen in the next few years at EU level in relation to the bio-side and bioenergy, and it is worth taking careful account of how much we bind ourselves. Finally, there is the question of another company aid. Its function is genuinely climate and energy policy, and it is good and pro-renewal, but it will be interesting in the sense that, at the same time, we have a business support team that is thinking about how to renew business support, above all in a more innovative direction. I understand the function of wanting and needing to have rapid renewable, clean energy production from a climate policy point of view, but it is worth openly discussing here whether it can be done even more efficiently.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u8	Mr President! Mr Jaskari mentioned, among other things, whether wind power still needs support. I personally very much welcome this technology neutrality, and the whole support model as a model is much better. But as far as that wind power is concerned, of course, it is worth remembering what this system supports and how much it supports. If the annual target moves in as small a number as it is in this proposal, 2 terawatt hours per year, and we currently have construction-ready, yet unrealised wind power projects worth 12,000 terawatt hours, then even if that whole 2 terawatt hours goes to wind power, which is not going to happen, there will still be an unbuilt potential of 10,000 terawatt hours. So I wouldn't see it as a big fear that this is where huge amounts of support come from for wind power. The model is technologically neutral and small in volume.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u9	Madam President! This was precisely the question of ensuring that it is completely technologically neutral on all sides, and that is why I said that everyone who can make renewable, clean energy more cost-effective will then be viewed objectively. We must also ensure that there are no other subsidies in this form of competition, so that there is no such combination. It is certainly not against wind power; it is about everyone getting on the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u10	Mr President! The national energy and climate strategy announced by the Government last year sets out a long-term goal for carbon-neutral society. In order to reduce emissions and achieve this objective, the importance of solutions for renewable energy production is emphasised. This government proposal to introduce a system of production subsidies, the so-called premium system, is a step forward. This production aid scheme would provide an incentive for the use of renewable energy in electricity generation. Moreover, given that the production aid scheme is competitive and has a key cost-effectiveness criterion, it would also encourage the development of electricity generation in a more cost-effective manner. At the moment, our country's energy policy instruments are inconsistent in many places, because this feed-in tariff system, the current form of support for renewable energy, is contradictory and partly overlapping with the emissions trading system. Mr President! In the government's proposal to introduce a premium system, attention should be drawn to the fact that hydropower is excluded from the aid scheme. Hydropower, as we know, is a renewable energy source and, in terms of technological neutrality, it would be justified to consider including hydropower in the production support system. It is clear that our country's significant new hydropower potential may have already been built, but, in any case, from the point of view of technological neutrality, this issue still requires careful consideration and justification from Parliament in the further examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u11	Madam President! In the creation of such support schemes as such, it would in principle be worthwhile to exercise considerable restraint, since when such aid is being made, it also has a market-driven and perhaps distortive effect. However, if, for environmental and climate policy reasons, such a support system is to be created, when it is called technological neutrality, it should be ensured that it is also genuinely technological neutral. Mr Jaskari and Mr Tuppurainen made excellent contributions, in which they also raised this question, that hydropower was not included in the emission-free energy sources in this proposal, which is very problematic. In view of the fact that, in practice, we in Finland do not currently know any new hydropower project other than the possible construction of Sierilä, I find it a little unusual that we are not now relying on our own environmental legislation, but that hydropower is already automatically excluded from the potential beneficiaries of this aid. In particular, given that, at the moment, justifiably, hydropower is subject to significant fishing obligations, which may become even more severe in the future, the fact that hydropower is categorically excluded from this support can make the Sierila project even unprofitable. That is why I hope that, at the committee stage, consideration will be given to whether hydropower should be included in the scope of the potential beneficiaries of the aid after all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u12	Mr President! It is good that this issue of hydropower is raised in this debate, because it is important. The aim of this bill is, I believe, what was the aim of the old feed-in tariff system. It's just that this show is so much better. In other words, the aim is — when these new forms of energy are not yet growing at the pace and pace required by our emission reduction targets and climate targets — to create a route, a growth path for those forms of renewable energy that are not yet able to implement it on market terms. Hydropower is not part of a group of renewable energy that would not already be able to cope with market conditions. That is why I think it is justified that it should be excluded from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u13	Mr President! This, of course, is precisely the case when different technologies are in a different position, and, as I said in my previous speech, for example, the continuing tightening of fishing obligations poses specific challenges to hydropower, and if we are genuinely aiming for technological neutrality in renewable energy, then it would certainly be well justified that the aid should also be genuinely technological neutral and include hydropower.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u14	Madam President! It is absolutely essential that Finland strives to maximise all its own use of renewable energy. We must always remember what the other side of the medal is, and that is, of course, that we use fossil fuel, which in this situation is in no way justified. However, climate policy is supranational: smoke and carbon dioxide run across borders, and we cannot do anything about it. But it would now be important for us Finnish parliamentarians to remember, both here in Finland and in Brussels and Strasbourg, that these important Finnish objectives should be pursued unanimously. After all, it is quite a farce that we are discussing today in Finland whether we are allowed to cut our forests about the same amount as Sweden does. In Sweden, that is not a problem. For example, the Greens say nothing about it when Sweden beats 80% of its forests and uses them for renewable energy, for example. There seems to be a 60% problem here. Hello, where is your conscience, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u15	Mr President! I am not sure whether I listened badly to Mr Jaskar's speech, but I did not quite understand the logic that subsidies would be a problem in some way in purchasing raw materials from a bioproduct plant. On the contrary, I think they support it: sawmills become a by-product for which there is no market otherwise, and then support for the purchase of virgin raw material ensures that there is a sufficient volume of raw material. Such a pattern is being realised in a bioproduct plant specifically designed for Kemijärvi, which would take advantage of both the local by-product of Keitele Group, the by-product produced by Kuusamo Pölkky Oy and, in addition, virgin raw material. However, it must be remembered that if the best salmon river in Europe has been destroyed in the past, it must also be the responsibility of the river company, along with the state, to invest in restoring its salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u16	Mr President! This is a good debate and actually reflects the problem that we have with all these subsidies, as Mr Jaskari said. While we are talking about cutting corporate subsidies, we are creating new ones. However, I would now like to point out the fact that this amount of aid will certainly produce wind power, Mr Halmemenpää. Then we need control power, and then we are forced to come to the debate about hydropower, so in the sense that technology neutrality is, to me, genuinely neutral, its hydropower should be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u17	Mr President! Of course, the long-term objective is to be able to phase out aid schemes and to operate on market terms, but at present this is not the case for all renewable energy — with the exception of large-scale hydropower projects. As far as hydropower is concerned, there is already a great deal of control in this Nordic market. I represent the school which does not limit the production of energy and the use of control power within Finland's borders, but it makes sense for us to cooperate with the Nordic countries, and in the Nordic electricity market there is indeed plenty of control power. However, a further 15 terawatt hours of wind power could be built in relation to the current capacity without imposing any constraints on adjustment power, transmission or demand flexibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u18	Madam President! Many people today are sworn in the name of electricity, and that is a good thing, but it is also good that attention is paid to the way this electricity is produced. However, we have a lot of electricity in Europe that is not very clean. In the case of electric cars, for example, it is also good to raise these life-cycle and environmental aspects to the debate, which are not necessarily so strongly underlining their use today. Mr Jaskari raised important points earlier in that debate, including the neutrality of this technology. It is a good thing that we look for ways to ensure that we no longer direct subsidies to a particular person according to political ideologies, but that we look for a model in which technological neutrality is found the best low-emission forms of renewable energy. In this debate, the wind and the sun have been on display and hydropower has also been discussed. I myself am also in favour of these small hydroelectric power plants and perhaps also of improving the efficiency and efficiency of hydroelectric power plants that currently exist. But I also think that, in connection with such projects, we should remember the fishing routes. It should, in fact, be an obligation for these operators today that, when these developments are carried out, for example, to strengthen electricity production in the old, already harnessed rapids, then they must always be paired with adequate and efficient fishing routes paid by the company itself. In my opinion, this would also be the right solution for nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u19	Mr President! It is a great thing that there seems to be a very broad consensus in this Chamber on a good government proposal for a support system for renewable energy. That is a great thing, because energy policy is a long-term policy. The quartal is many times 25 years, and it is therefore good that there is such broad support for this project. After all, this proposal supports the Government's objectives in three ways: First of all, climate policy with regard to the reduction of emissions and the reduction of fossil fuels. It supports employment, because investments in renewable energy leave and bring work mainly to the country of origin, which is, of course, good and necessary. These employment-related projects are also being created in the regions and in different parts of Finland. And thirdly, on the issue of self-sufficiency. We still have too much energy as a whole imported from outside the country's borders, and the increase in renewable energy will also improve this current account, the trade balance, which is a good thing. I myself would also have seen hydropower within this support system, as many colleagues have said here. I would like to raise a few other points of view on this whole: First of all, biogas. Yesterday was an opportunity to visit some farms where this biogas production has been developed, and one can say this: over the last few years, technology has developed enormously. There will be a real great potential in the future for decentralised electricity and, above all, for gas production and other products, and hopefully they will succeed in this competition. With regard to sawmills, like Mr Jaskari, I am concerned that a lot of wood chips are being brought to us from that Russia, and it distorts in a certain way at least part of South-East Finland, Eastern Finland, even up to Oulu. The bites and the shells won't sell when we get the import chip. A system should be able to build on this so that the native can do better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u20	Mr President! In fact, I would like to comment on what has happened here, because these have been very interesting. You can say to Mr Halmeenpää that he spoke first in favour of technological neutrality, but is prepared to restrict certain technologies outside — not very logical. But energy policy is also part of economic policy, and Halmemenpää relies on imported energy in terms of controlling power, which makes no economic sense. Perhaps in this competition, renewable production should be subject to some kind of control power production obligation, and this could be the solution to whether this renewable support is now directed to wind power. But if wind power were to win these competitions and be a control force obligation, it could then help precisely the decentralised CHP production that Halmemenpää here also announced. Of course, the situation in this aid is that 2 terawatt hours is the total amount that will be put out for competition in two parts. In my opinion, 2 terawatt hours are the right size, and even because the tendering procedure is carried out in two parts, after the first tendering, we can still see where this support is directed and if there is a need to make any further adjustments to it, then it is possible to do so. Mr Honkonen raised a very important issue here, and it is precisely these conditions for the CHP plants to actually participate in this competition, and I believe that it would be in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy when this proposal is finalised, then take a closer look. Mr Jaskari pointed out that hydropower was excluded from this competition, and this has given rise to a little debate in every direction. This is something with which the committee must then see whether we really only have one hydropower project, Sierilä, which could take part in this competition, or whether we have more of these and whether it is bad for you if Sierilä were involved in this competition. Then I would say to Mr Löfström about this exclusion outside the Åland Islands: I think that is very sensible. Of course, Åland can support its own projects if it wishes. Although there are no legal obstacles to this, electricity is not transferred from Åland to Finland. As I recall, during the last parliamentary term, 50 million were invested in a sea cable between the mainland of Finland and Åland, but there is no electricity. It is a so-called security of supply cable, and electricity is transferred from Åland to Sweden. It makes no sense for Finland to support the electricity price in Sweden, at least with tax resources. Friday is now the next such day, when at 8 a.m. a group of business support groups is meeting, who are feverishly thinking about what business support can be reduced. Friday will also be the day when new business subsidies will be made in the afternoon. Sometimes I feel that logic is lacking, but this is how this is agreed that this kind of renewable support is made, and it goes. In part, however, this government proposal improves the bite and peel situation of sawmills, hoping that these arrangements will allow CHP plants to enter these sawmills and the bark will start to move. This Group on Business Support and then this new renewable support will be linked in such a way that we need to think very carefully that, if these measures do not give way to biting and peeling the sawmills, it would make sense to pay production aid for forest chips. Tuppurainen talked about this emissions trading that we have overlapping control systems, but the price of emissions trading is currently low enough that it is not an effective instrument. The implementation of technological neutrality in the context of this new support must be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u21	Fru Talman! Precis som ledamot Turunen rain så var det tidigare så att den enda elkabeln mellan Åland och utanför Åland gick till Sverige. Men det har för ett par månader sedan variant slutsyn på en ny sjökabel mellan Åland och Nådendal. Den är 152 kilometer lång, den är nyligen byggd, så det finns nu alla öjligheter att använda den electrotriciteten som genereras på Åland också på fastlandet. Det är är en sak som har förändrats sedan förra mandatperioden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u22	Mr President! Of course, not only Mr Halmemenpää, but also the government considers this proposal for renewable energy support to be technologically neutral — even though it excludes hydroelectric power. Of course, it could be said to Mr Turuse that Halmemenpää relies mainly on domestic oatmeal and rye bread as an adjustment force, but this Nordic electricity market, along with CHP plants, is very strongly based on Nordic hydropower, which we also have in Finland, and I consider this to be a good cooperation model, and I do not believe that I hear opposing views in this Chamber either. As far as the fishing obligations of those hydroelectric power plants are concerned, those necessary savings have actually been collected by the power companies over the decades — about 70 years — during which, in the light of today’s information, fishing obligations have been totally undersized: five to seven times too small on the Kemijoki River and those relying on pups. With these power companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u23	Mr President! Just briefly: Mr Halmemenpää said that he is relying on domestic control, including hydropower, and that there is indeed a lot of hydropower in Finland. Of course, this is not the case, and it will not increase if hydropower is resisted with that zeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u24	Mr President! That is where the representative of the government, Mr Turunen, referred to what is bothering me here too, was that we actually set up this parliamentary working group on the reduction of subsidies for companies, because we never really get to the point where they would be cut off, and, at the end of February, the work of this working group will end, and, as the representative said, a new form has been introduced here, and then he said that this is the way it has been agreed. Well, of course people make deals, and it's a little odd that at the same time they reform and then they remove. But with regard to that wind power, I would like to say that it would be very good if these forms of aid could also be flexibly abolished. However, studies show that wind turbines are the cheapest way to generate electricity when it comes to these on-shore installations. In that sense, this is something that the committee should look into — as is the case with that hydropower, if it is claimed that this is technologically neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u25	Madam President! The Government's proposal on production aid for electricity produced with renewable energies and at the same time wind power support is extremely important for Finland. Finland is certainly the country of renewable energy, the number one country in Europe, no matter what the measure is. The funniest thing about this is, ladies and gentlemen, that there are conditions in Finland for producing renewable energy, which means that much of the time depends on this hall, what kind of laws we legislate and whether we can get its renewable energy flowing in this country. This new government proposal is technologically neutral, as many representatives have already said. However, this does not include hydropower. I hope that, at least in this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will go through this carefully, that this is all right. I do not have the great wisdom to do this at the moment, but I believe that the committee will be discussing and listening to experts for a long time, that wisdom will certainly be found. That is why I am extremely concerned, Madam President, that we are currently in a bad situation in Finland with CHP plants, combined heat and power plants. And it just feels terrible to watch big saws and smaller saws with wood chips, chewing gum, bark of wood soaring in heaps. We representatives should remember the fact that when it picks up and chews and peels there for a long enough time, it is no longer good enough for fuel, because its calorific value is getting worse and worse. If it stands there for two or three years, it’s good for something more like a cover of vegetable soil to prevent weeds from getting up — that’s a goal too, of course, but it may not meet its purpose. In any case, this country should now take a position in this decision-making process in order to safeguard the future of CHP power plants, which is certainly the best energy production method in the world. When that energy is still produced with renewable energies, renewable raw materials, there will be enormous benefits: its efficiency is rising by more than 90%, which means that nothing is actually wasted. So electricity and heat are produced, and only what now disappears from power plants as heat into the sky must be tolerated. But in this country, say a production process where efficiency is higher than 90 — surely there are no other examples. So this is what we in Parliament need to look into, that this CHP power plant system will be able to play in this country and that future power stations that will be built will be these CHP power plants. There is no point in simply building electricity when we have a chance for much better. Above all, we have renewable energy. Today, at European Union level, we are discussing land use, the Land Use Change Directive and then the sustainability criteria for renewable energy, whether they are correct or not. From Finland’s point of view, the development seems rather worrying at the moment, when there was already a situation that felt that Finnish forests should not be cut at all, and in this regard I wonder very much how there is a huge cross-referencing in this country as to whether we are allowed to use our own raw materials. For example, our western neighbour, Sweden, with a felling level of about 80%, which is being cut out of annual growth, is not, for example, a problem for the Greens in that country. It has not been said that the Swedes have done wrong, but Finland is going to go a little over 60% and it is being fought and thrown into the air with the terrible scares of what is happening in the world if the Finns increase their harvests to the same level as Sweden. What's going on? The fact is that 20 million mots of wood will be added, and while we get 20 million more mots of wood on the market in a year, we will also get a huge amount of energy wood. In the first thinning fellings, you can say, roughly half and half: one half goes to a pulp boiler and the other half goes to a thermal power plant, and that is certainly the best option for Finland. According to the 12th forest inventory of the newly-completed kingdom, we currently have about one million hectares of first thinnings, such logging sites that should be rushed away, which are therefore absolutely in need when the forest begins to suffer. The 50-60 million-cent wood out of these areas would be readily available. If you take 10 million shots a year, it takes between five and seven years to make a mere payment, and there are more and more delays, they are the lazy ones. And here we are discussing whether we should have CHP power. After all, this is an incomprehensible debate. And then if we put those woods in order, then what happens? Then comes the miracle that the annual growth of forests, already at 113 million faults, will come closer to 130 million, the situation will not improve, the carbon sink will grow, the use of coal will decrease. You should be happy. It is not worth being against this situation, it is worth being strongly involved in this development. Finally, I hope, Madam President, that we do not have so many of these opportunities in this country. However, in natural resources we have the enormous renewable potential that we have in both forests and fields. Both growth platforms, both forests and fields, are the strong support and security of this country even in the next century, certainly. Quite a lot depends on whether we find consensus in this house to use them to increase the welfare of this nation and raise the standard of living of the nation. When we have 200,000 unemployed, even more, and they need that job too, then here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a common task to which I challenge you all, and one important part of it is domestic energy production. Of course, there will be much more to it, and then, with energy, we will have the metal industry, the chemical industry, the electrical industry, everything we have in this country — all of which we have excellence. When we talk about forestry, then we are not just talking about energy — we are talking about metal, chemistry, electricity, many more. Finally, I hope, Madam President, that this matter will now be taken seriously, because this is precisely the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u26	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Mr Hosko for his good warm-up and good speech. Of course, when we in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy produced a report on the energy and climate strategy for 2030, we must first of all be glad that we were almost unanimous. We Social Democrats from the opposition also supported the government in this gigantic big as a whole, and I think it is an indication that the Finnish Parliament is able to cooperate on big issues. Although not all of them were involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u29	Madam President! To begin with, Mr Skinner did not forget: Mr Skinner did make a good, thoughtful speech on the very fact that it is precisely construction decisions that have been taken in the regions, regions and localities, which it would be good to review at this point in relation to CHP plants. Let us therefore hope that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has a good, thoughtful and wise decision-making that this point can be changed. A lot has been brought here, perhaps a little like the opposite, to see whether it is technologically neutral and so on when hydropower is left out. Well, Mr Halmemenpää well described that with this information, which is now, it is not renewable that would bring anything new. But I wouldn't completely rule it out. Rivers flow without building dams. I would at least like to see the technological progress that flowing water can produce electricity without having to dam it or that hiking fish cannot spawn in it. In my opinion, it is not worth excluding that no one in Finland would wonder if there could be some such solutions as those suitable for households that generate energy from that stream passing by. All in all, I see that this poor consideration of households here is perhaps one of the larger policies. I understand that, especially in TEM, we are always delighted with the great solutions and solutions produced by economies of scale, but I believe that as citizens, we should have the opportunity to take advantage of new innovations in renewable energy in our own models of heating and energy production. I am fascinated by the fact that we have households who can make air heat, land pump or solar solutions and perhaps combine these new technologies that can be created here. In my view, the government's proposal must be supported in that it is now heading in the right direction and that nothing is being cut into the rock for a long time. In other words, this two-step approach is a good thing to see whether the damage has been caused and not hanged for so long by these subsidies. In terms of how we have forest biomaterials in CHP plants or in energy production, I am rather negative about the idea that fibrewood should be used as a source of biofuels, for example. In my opinion, the burning of pine oil on top of a car piston or in combustion boilers is already a sacrilege. It is a raw material which, through further processing, can obtain high-tech products and benefit the economy much more effectively than if we were to concentrate on the production of fibrewood biofuels. Let us keep the forests as a forest economy, as they should be, so rather as a raw material for the chemical and pulp industry, at least to that point in the fibre tree. Here is a good thing about whether production subsidies are needed at all. Personally, I would be more in favour of aid for innovation and investment. I believe that in our agriculture it is these biogas plants that are a potential form of local energy production and, in the future, a solution to this issue of transport fuel if we want to achieve the 30% target. Here too, underlining: hopefully in the blender, here the Minister Even Mr Tiilikainen made a big point about this limit of mixing obligations, never turning to fibrewood for transport fuels to be produced there, but looking at the potential for biogas in agriculture. This sector is likely to need investment aid. And remove all the other absurdities we have in the use of local energy. I would like the roof that holds the garage on the neighboring plot to be at my disposal if I wanted solar power there, and so on. The same should apply to these transport fuels in rural areas. There should not be energy tax limits that prevent agriculture from selling biofuels in locations where biogas is produced. Such vain obstacles in taking small steps, so to speak, should be solved now, even under this government. Let us now trust that Mr Turunen, as Chairman of the Economic Committee, will take a catch and clean up the small obstacles to the use of renewable energy by small citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u30	I think it is reasonable to give Mr Turuse a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u31	Mr President! Representative Myllykoski, as usual, gave a proper speech. I myself am the supporter of decentralised energy production and the best way to improve the conditions for the participation of households in energy production. However, the fact that we are now discussing temporary aid for the production of renewable energy for 2 terawatt hours is not in itself different from the fact that energy production aid is being discussed, but these are not directly linked. Investment aid may be one that is suitable for this decentralised energy production and for households, and we already have this type of investment aid in mind. For example, the household allowance is one of this type. It is an important matter, and it is worth talking about these things at all times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u32	Mr President! This is beginning to sound very good if the Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that steps could now be taken to develop local energy in Finland as well. It would certainly be a good thing for Parliament to take a really bigger step in this matter than is the case with this government proposal. It is quite extraordinary that we have different barriers to the development of solar systems in housing, to the development of solar systems in residential areas — and others in this regard — given that there is great potential in construction for solar power already in construction there. We could be pioneers in this, too, if the various administrative barriers were removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u33	Mr President! I would like to remind you at this stage of the debate that it is energy standards that have been dismantled quite a lot since more than 300 standards have been dismantled by the government. In many households, for example, putting solar panels on the roofs of houses is now a mere declaration and no more complex licensing processes are needed. They may be small steps in a large picture, but they must also be made in order to really achieve a decentralised energy production model, and it is good if this Chamber is united and united in it. Certainly, if you think about investments in biogas power plants, they are still quite large. It costs almost EUR 450,000 to transform the Naveta into a biogas-producing power plant, and this is obviously a very big investment for a single farmer, but the future goes in that direction. I would like to point out, for example, the fear of where the fibre tree is going, that the market will determine where it is going. For example, in the case of CHP, there is a cutter here so that it does not fall into that pot, but other things are done about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u34	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u35	Mr President! There is a UN climate conference in Bonn, and it is currently considering how to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement in different countries and globally, i.e. to limit the temperature to less than 2°C, aiming towards a level of one-and-a-half. It is clear that renewable energy plays a key role in this work and also in the disposal of fossil fuels, and that is why this proposal for a law on renewable energy production aid is important. In the view of the Left Alliance Parliament, a tender-based and technology-neutral premium system should be supported for clarity and cost-effectiveness reasons. This proposal is therefore a step in the right direction, but it is inadequate. In our view, the annual amount of 2 terawatt hours already proposed by the government is far too small. Therefore, this aid is unlikely to produce a sufficiently rapid energy conversion. Since this aid is not expensive for the state, why not increase the amount of aid to be auctioned clearly? This House has been discussing the relationship of this proposal with the parliamentary working group on the reform of the business support system, and although I personally welcome the fact that the task of the working group is also to achieve a reduction in the overall level of business aid, I would like to stress that the task of this group is not to abolish the entire Finnish business support system but to reform this business support system in a more sensible direction, so that we spend less money on environmentally harmful and inefficient subsidies for companies' competitiveness, and then more money on subsidies that can be useful and justified, for example, in order to increase the production volume of renewable energy. It is also clear, as has been said here during the debate, that this old wind power subsidy had not been successful. It became too expensive for the government and also increased the profits of the power companies to excess. However, it must be pointed out that the aid scheme managed to achieve a rapid increase in the amount of zero-emission wind power, and we believe that this objective, namely to increase production volumes, must continue to be maintained when new forms of aid are being considered. If we cannot increase the volume of energy production supported in parliamentary deliberations, it is only to be hoped that technological development will lead Finland's energy production in the right direction quickly enough. For example, solar energy is increasingly cheaper, but as long as the emissions trading system cannot function properly and the subsidies for fossil production are not reduced, renewable energy cannot compete with the old forms of production on a market-based basis. In addition, it should also be borne in mind that the best electricity for the environment and climate is one that has not had to be produced at all. Thus, in addition to renewable energy production, Finland must invest heavily in energy efficiency in society as a whole: households, industry and municipalities. This means, among other things, demand response and an intelligent electricity system that reduces the need for electricity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u36	Mr President! Support is needed — when we have just been criticised for the fact that, at the same time, some new business aid is being created when we try to get rid of the old ones — because, of course, if there is a common goal that we are trying to achieve and what we need to speed up, then it is worth supporting it, and that is what we are talking about here in support of renewable energy. We know that we need to get rid of fossil energy as soon as possible and we need more renewable energy, and it is smart to support it and speed it up. If we look at business subsidies overall, we have a huge number of business subsidies that have already done their job. They have speeded up why they have been set up, and there is much to cut down on. But in that sense it is not in any way contradictory that at the same time some new support is being created. But when this renewable energy is supported, it is important that there is sufficient investment. Now, in this government proposal, the direction is good, but the pace is modest when we consider the need to do what we need to do to mitigate climate change. What is also important is that, if we support renewable production, we will not at the same time harm biodiversity, and this is about these hydropower plants. We know that migratory fish are already quite endangered. Worldwide, 15,000 scientists have just warned us about the sixth wave of extinction, and as one way they encouraged us to move on to renewable energy. But here, for example, massive combustion of biomass continues to threaten diversity. In other words, these must be kept in mind when considering what kind of renewable energy we support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u37	Irade the Talman! First of all, it is good to correct the misconception that Mr Hoskonen had: after all, the government's actions are reducing the carbon sink. It can be accepted or closed, but of course I would like to see it understood and then take corrective action. All in all, this is a welcome reform and, as Mr Jaskari, among others, pointed out, the current model has its clear problems. However, this system of production subsidies is only one thing when it comes to building a smooth, flexible future decentralised energy production system. From this point of view, we still have quite a lot to do. Representative Myller brought up the solar systems connected to the houses. At the moment, it is difficult for a housing company to take advantage of this. For fiscal reasons, for example, there is a strict line between electricity entering the company and electricity entering housing, and this could be corrected by legislative measures. It may be asked whether it makes sense that, for fiscal reasons again, the PV system, which is placed on the same plot as the building, is treated differently in relation to the one placed on the adjacent property even if the owner is the same. For purely land-use reasons, I believe that this will lead to non-sensical solutions. Indeed, renewable energies are already cost-competitive. According to Fortum, EUR 52 megawatt hour of solar power will be produced at Stockholm level within a few years. Wind power is already the most cost-effective way of generating new capacity for the market. However, this new production structure also imposes requirements on the whole network, and the big question is how we prepare ourselves for this demand response that these new production systems will require. It means, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u38	Mr President! In my view, Mr Adlercreutz has just raised a very important issue about the particular difficulties faced by housing companies. We must remind Mr Sarkkinen, for example, that it is one element that housing companies cannot take advantage of to that extent. At the same time, this should be possible, but in particular it should be possible for a solar system to be put into common use by housing companies instead of having to have their own panel and their own feeds to their own power station. It's inconceivable, but this may indicate what's in that department from these parts. It focuses on these mega-class big issues and ignores the potential of households to introduce renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u39	The honourable Member raised a good question. It could also be noted from this bill that, obviously, this does not now take into account, for example, the PV systems assembled by the company, which are connected and sold as a service to a housing company. I think this is missing the bill. In this respect, I also hope that this can be corrected in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u40	Now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u41	Mr President! The government's proposal for production aid for renewable energy is good, but it can also be described as 'too little, too late'. Too late due to the fact that the feed-in tariff for wind power has already been closed and the new system projects would not be in production until 2019. Too little because it is a 2 terawatt-hour bidding process for electricity, which means a couple of per cent of Finland's electricity consumption. By comparison, the green energy vision targets 30 terawatt hours of wind power and 10 terawatt hours of solar power by 2035. This government model itself is good and cost-effective. Aid for renewable energy is linked to the market price of electricity and is important. It is also very important that the model is technologically neutral, but that hydropower is excluded. This is very important and important that hydropower is cut off. We have a law on protection that was once enacted to protect our last free-flowing rapids. We have very little diverse, free-flowing aquatic nature left, and the salmon and trout of our valuable hiking fish are really endangered. Efforts must be made to remove the obstacles to the rise of fish and to restore the natural reproductive cycle for these fish instead of the growth of fish now dependent on compulsory planting. Among other things, there has been talk of small hydropower in this debate. Well, small hydropower in particular is often extremely harmful to fish stocks, but very insignificant on the scale of Finland's energy production. This government proposal is necessary in that sense and is to be welcomed that renewable energy still needs support for market development today, as the emissions trading system is completely inoperable. It does not provide sufficient guidance for clean technology. The price of a tonne of CO2 is too low and free allowances have been allocated to industry. I myself would like to raise questions outside this law as to what is needed in order to give greater support to good development. Firstly, the possibility of small-scale production for individual residents, solar panels, the encouragement of housing companies to solar power — these issues must be resolved by dismantling the associated unnecessary standards, by enabling access to the grid, by introducing net electricity billing, by encouraging electricity storage. Today, for example, we have legislation that taxes electricity storage. It is therefore absurd that electricity storage should be taxed twice. The development of new technologies must be supported in every way, research and innovation, the development of smart electricity systems. The need for adjustment power has also been raised in this debate in a good way. It is therefore important to develop intelligent systems, but in fact it is a very insignificant issue for this legislation. The Energy Kolmio has calculated that the current electricity system could accommodate 15 terawatt hours of new wind energy without the need for more adjustment power, transmission connections or demand flexibility. So this 2 terawatt hours in this matter is irrelevant. Mr President! Finally, why are these questions and this law and follow-up so important? We're on the verge of global warming at an accelerated rate. The Paris climate agreement creates hope, but at the moment the promises made by the countries are sufficient to stop warming to 3°C. In 2018, there will be a review point where there is a need to tighten existing emission reduction targets. Of course, from the point of view of the EU and Finland, we have already achieved the 2020 emission reduction targets in a good way. So we can do much, much more and much, much better. It would also boost and boost important technology exports and the development of the technology market, for which there is a huge demand and a need in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u42	Mr President! I wonder about this green allergy to this small hydropower, which has come to light now, and this has sometimes been voted on in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy with Mr Karimäki. In other words, as a result of what Finland has in due course been industrialized or usually electricity obtained in the countryside and also the grain has been ground, we have a lot of old mill legs out there where the fish stocks do not move, in such ditches and inland lakes, several hundred, where one could very easily put new turbine systems at the moment, which would be more efficient and better than these old Francis turbines among others. There are rights and permits, there are old structures — this legislation would now make it possible for the old structure to exist, but let us put new equipment and new efficiency into it. That is small power, and I see that it is also the controlling power and the local energy that we could also promote with this project. Whether it is financed or not, but it is happening in any case, and I hope that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u43	Mr President! Mr Karimäki here said twice that too little was too late, and he also said that the current FIT system was closed. It becomes the impression that the FIT system has been buried, buried, cost-free, and now a new support system is being introduced, which is too modest. But, in fact, this old feed-in tariff system is alive and well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u46	Mr President! Firstly, to Mr Turuse: it is true that new projects will no longer be approved under this feed-in tariff system, but these old projects will continue, and that is why it is good that this new system has taken into account cost-effectiveness and that energy support is linked to the market price of electricity. This previous feed-in tariff legislation, which was adopted under the leadership of Minister Mauri Pekkarinen, was a failure in this regard, but fortunately we have been able to mobilise wind power through it and we will continue to need it. And as far as small-scale hydropower is concerned, it is unfortunately detrimental to the diversity of our natural fish stocks. I do appreciate the fact that there are projects and a fishing road strategy, that fish routes are being built, but we must still have the courage to dismantle these obstacles to biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u47	Then we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u48	Mr President! Certainly in this proposal, supported by many, it is essential now to bring the law into force as soon as possible, and the first call for competition by autumn 2018 at the latest, because the current situation is that the progress of new projects prior to that is virtually at a standstill. The old projects, which have been within its old system, can, however, be thick and too thick, as has been said jointly. Mr President! What I would like to draw attention to myself is that, in addition to the time window of this support system that is now being created, we would also need prospects for the period beyond 2020. For example, Sweden, Denmark and Germany have committed themselves to increasing renewable energy through support schemes of the 2020s, and as long as the emissions trading system cannot be repaired, participation in these support competitions, premium schemes is, could you say, unfortunately, a necessity if we also want jobs and know-how for renewable energy in Finland? This system, which we are creating, has also been evaluated. Consultant company Pöyry has estimated that this new system, with these diagrams, which the government is now presenting, would produce about half the wind and half the CHP, virtually no sun at all, unless something shows up, could you say, mega-class solar projects. According to Pöyry, forest chips in the form of separate power stations are also unlikely to come under this aid scheme, as the production aid must be committed to 12 years, which is a long time when fuel costs are not easy to estimate and anticipate for such a long time. But as far as this forest energy is concerned, it has been mentioned in the bill that a trunk tree suitable for a higher degree of processing cannot even be used for the energy production involved in the bidding process. That's a good thing. With regard to wood-based energy and the increasing use of biomass, we should therefore take care of sustainability criteria, both for climate reasons and for biodiversity, and the government has taken this into account. In the current proposal, my own concern also relates to the fact that this model may lead to a shortfall of that 2th annual terawatt-hour quota. If there are two rounds of competition, 1 terawatt hour per round, and if the project entering this last system is larger than the 1 terawatt hour, then the project will not receive any support at all and may be replaced by a smaller project. If the quota is short, it might be good to have some flexibility up and some excess or an extra round, so that even that 2 terawatts annual quota is satisfied that it will not be short when the small figure is in any case. Mr President! We have also discussed decentralised local energy production here, and, just as Mr Turunen said, this is a slightly different system, and it is quite true that there might be a need for investment aid for this decentralised small production. In this model, the minimum annual production threshold for renewable energy support is 800 megawatt hours. It may be, Mr Pirttäällä, that these very smallest hydropower plants will fall from this already on that basis if hydropower is not already limited. For example, the solar system of a single residential apartment building can be 10 megawatt hours. There's no way it's gonna reach that 800 megawatt-hour annual production. Either we drop that lower limit or we will create our own system for the production of renewable decentralised local energy in the future. Mr President! Perhaps, as a friendly remark, I would also like to say once again that, in addition to CHP plants, we are actually using Nordic hydropower, which we have in Finland. In the past, we have made a policy of the government, decades ago, on the building of hydropower, and, given the sustainability criteria, a significant proportion of our hydropower potential, including all large power plants, have already been realised. In that sense, I consider it entirely justified in the government proposal that the aim now is to support those forms of renewable energy in which we still have a great deal of potential to realise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u49	Mr President! This Chamber often calls for knowledge-based decision-making, the use of research data as a policy base, but when you listen to these speeches it is easy to fly out the window if it happens to conflict with your own preconceptions. For example, Mr Hoskonen has just said here that large fellings increase the carbon sinks of Finland's forests. I don't know where Mr. Hoskonen got his information — I thought I was the one who had to do fantasy literature. In reality, forest and climate scientists have a solid understanding that this amount of logging driven by the Finnish Government is precisely reducing the carbon sink of the forest. So it is not a question of getting wood from the forest that can replace fossil fuel, but of how much coal that forest can bind. As Mr Hoskonen said, the carbon balance of Finland's forests would sometimes be restored in the next century. Yes, but we don't have a hundred years left to wait. We no longer have a hundred years to stop climate emissions, whether it be fuel, land use or food. After a hundred years, Finland’s forests will not even grow the same trees as they do now if climate change accelerates at this rate. If this debate had taken place in the 1960s, when scientists began to seriously warn political decision-makers about the greenhouse effect, then we could also think much more freely about how we could curb climate change by using Finnish forests. Today there is no time for this because, as climate scientists have been telling us for 50 years, the further this change is allowed to go, the harder and more expensive it will be to reject it. At this point, such minor adjustments and the continuation of the lifestyle are no longer among the options.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u50	Mr President! For the representative of the plant so much mathematics that when you look at the time when the first inventory of Finnish forests was made in 1922 — then it began — Finnish forests to this day, the number of motts, or total stocks of wood, or carbon stocks, has more than doubled, almost 2.5 times, and carbon sinks have more than doubled during this time. So both have grown, both carbon sink and carbon storage. It seems to be extremely difficult for you to beat on the head that the annual growth of forests is the carbon sink, that is the amount of motts that binds carbon dioxide and turns into wood in photosynthesis — this time into wood, this time it can turn into many others, but this time into wood — and it is currently growing its 112 to 113 million mots, and if we do thinning, then the increase is 135 to 140 million mots. Which is, representative plant, larger: 112 million mots or 135 million mots? It's the carbon sink. Yes, I know that there is such an idea in your world,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u51	Mr President! Yes, Mr Hoskonen, you are quite right in those figures, but not only have the carbon sink, the growth of forests and carbon stocks increased, but also emissions have increased, and that is the reason, [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u52	Mr Plant and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u53	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen therefore believes that Finnish forest and climate researchers are wrong and Mr Hoskonen knows how these things really are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u56	And now for the real speech, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u57	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Halmemenpää for his enlightening speech. It opened my eyes once and for all to see what is at the heart of your policy. It is that you first intimidate people to the raves, then you present a solution — and both went wrong. In other words, Sweden is cutting 80% of its annual growth from its forests. What they use it for is their business, but the forests are growing at a fierce rate. And you don't. Sweden has never criticised anything about felling, but in Finland 60% is a problem for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u66	All right, looks like there's a little need for a debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u67	Mr President! After this very emotional talk, let us try to draw back even from these facts. Of course, decision-making always includes facts and a wide range of other arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u70	Mr President! There was some sense that Hannu Hoskonen came from an area where forest growth is lively and where forests have always lived. So much for the representative of the plant when you shouted the interlude that the scientists are wrong: the scientists are not wrong. There is only such a problem that the world will not end in 2030 and the forest will continue to grow after that, and even the world rescue will not end in 2030. If we look a little further, as the world should look at it, it is true that when we add fellings, a clear hole, a drop comes and is taken out of coal. But even scientists believe that when you wait 30 years, with the 80 million fellings to which Mr Halmemenpää referred, Finland will already be at a higher level than it is now, i.e. the forests will return to carbon sinks. In my opinion, nature and the world cannot be viewed in such a way as to take this short time span and draw conclusions from it — although scientists themselves are right. We'll have to look longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u71	Irade the Talman! Mr Eestilä said this, which Mr Hoskonen previously denied, and indeed the government itself has said that these measures will halve the carbon sink by the end of next decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u72	Mr President! I have to support that good speech by Hoskose. I have such a practical model here that I took a photograph of a 40-year-old tree: for 20 years it has gone up a bit. Then 20 years have been reduced. Three times more carbon sinks have been added since that tree began to grow. The treated forest is a carbon sink, and the untreated forest is its emitter. So the plant can look — I have a picture here — and count the rings here, that how more of that carbon sink comes by taking care of the forests. If they were left there, the carbon sink would have come much less in this tree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u73	Mr President! There is perhaps such a misunderstanding here that it is thought that the Greens would like to stop forestry and timber in Finland altogether, but that is not what Mr Halmemenpää has already said. As Mr Eestilä said earlier, and as I said in my own speech, of course, when we get enough time, that balance will be restored and we will again be able to absorb carbon dioxide as before. The problem is that we don't have that time anymore. If we had really woken up to this in the '60s, when scientists began to warn political decision-makers, then we could have started with the mentality that it would be even for the 50 to 100 years. We don't have another 50 years. We don't have another 30 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u74	Mr President! I would ask you to take note of and remember all that is being done with the products that are now being compensated for by the growth of forests. They replace all the fossil products we are now using, and this is a critical factor. I would like to ask the opposition when you are opposed to the additional use of forests: what are we going to use to replace oil-based plastics? There is technology in Finland that can replace it with renewable material, and this is a huge global issue. Of course we need more wood construction, long-term binding products, and that is all being done, and the market will make sure that the wood goes where the best price can be paid. It's an expensive raw material. It's not worth wasting. I would also like to say that, once the government's hiking policy has been praised, it is the first major project money it has received, and it came from a centre-led government. It is very important for these damted waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u75	Mr President! In order to make it clear to all at once, the carbon sink is exactly the same amount that grows every year for forests. It's the carbon sink and nothing else. And the more we grow the carbon sink, the more carbon dioxide we bind from the atmosphere. This is a biological fact, which is proven by the immensely fine forest science that George Ilvessalo started at the time. It is an indisputable fact, and no one in this Chamber can reverse it. The second thing is the fact that we also have an increase in carbon stocks. The representative Eestilä well described this regeneration forest, that when the old forest is piled up and used either as sawn wood, pulpwood or something else, a new forest will always be created immediately. With this method of forest regeneration, we will ensure that this engine, or the growth potential of forests, is maintained. After a hundred years of age, the annual growth of the tree will begin to decline, and the decay will begin especially in the spruce and birch trees to win in the 100-year-old forest, in the pine grove it will be a little different. This just proves it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u76	Mr President! Of course, we all do from primary school or primary school biology classes, and I, too, as a biology teacher in primary school, know the formula of this connection and the carbon bonding. I am now trying to say that this is not just about forests, but about climate change, in which Finland is committed to international objectives, the significance and purpose of which is to reach the 2°C limit for climate change mitigation. We would prefer only to tolerate an increase in average global temperatures of about 1.5°C. That is what this is all about, and in that time perspective we do not have decades to wait for carbon sequestration to get stronger and grow back to normal. As far as felling is concerned, it is also worth noting that we have not thought in the Greens that fellings could not be grown if there were no others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u77	Mr President! My view is that Finland's emissions are still so small, even if fellings are added to 80 million, and when this problem is global, it has little mathematical or relative significance. So that world will not be saved from it, nor will it be for the worse or the better, whether we have logging 60 or 80. Unfortunately, this is the case if the facts are acknowledged. But it may have to be added that this is not just a climate policy, because it is quite a long way from an economic policy that is being carried out in Europe. Whenever a decision is made to restrict a country's industrial policy, in this case Finland's forestry policy and forest industry, we limit our own exports. Mr Halmemenpää, that is where the money comes from for education policy, and we often cry here about these savings in education policy. But let’s go to the facts: the world will not be saved. Germany stopped and threatened to end in 2011 after Fukushima seven nuclear power plants, resulting in the combustion of lignite and coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u78	Irade the Talman! After all, such an approach is extremely detrimental to the overall picture if we consider that our measures do not, however, have a global impact. If everyone thinks this way, nothing will happen. If everyone is acting like Finland on this matter, if Brazil, Indonesia and Russia were to do so, then we can certainly say goodbye to these big goals. But the representative My corner raised these products, and this is, of course, the case that, if it replaces harmful products, it is good. Renewable fuels as such may be climate-neutral or not, depending on the raw material and the time cycle. The wood-based are climate neutral for 25 to 50 years; in a shorter time they are not, unfortunately. All in all, it is a question of what we are using these growing fellings for. For long-term wood products, it is worth putting them in buildings. In that case,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u79	Mr President! Just like this: we in Finland should even more favour wood construction and then replace plastic products. However, I wonder about this attitude that when we already have some obligations in Finland for our part and even though Finland runs so fast, we still just want to put more stones in the backpack. For example, Poland and other countries in the EU are now much easier to achieve with their own obligations. Representative Halmeenpää: I was also thinking that if you can't hack wood in Finland, then when this tree likes something for industry, it is very easy for us to bring it across the border from Russia. It is coming from there at the moment, but then it flows here to Finland. Is that a good thing for the economy as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u80	Mr President! Indeed, Finland is a small country and our emissions on the world scale are low. If there were only 5.5 million Finns in the world, there would be nothing to worry about. But how can we expect other countries, even larger countries, to reduce their own emissions if we live ourselves like in the field? It is a bit like saying in one municipality: no, we do not have to care about our own waste water, as long as others do their part. And as far as the economy is concerned, in time, for example, when it was required that wood processing should not discharge its wastewater, it was said that the paper industry would be leaving Finland altogether. Well, he didn't leave, instead we're taking clean paper mills, closed-circuit pulp processes to the world. In other words, in general, whenever we have tightened the grip on these matters, the engineer has come up with a solution. And when we have been on the front line, we have also been able to take them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u81	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Eestilä raised a rather important point here: at the same time as we are talking about climate policy, we are also talking about economic policy. Finland is one of the members of the European Community and the European Community is then a party to the Agreement on Climate Change in Paris. The contracting party is not Finland itself but the European Community of which Finland is a member. What is essential is how the burden is then shared between the Member States of Europe. We all know that these emission reductions are really much higher in Sweden and Finland than, for example, in the developing countries of Europe. Even Poland: in Finland, emissions reductions are 39 per cent, in Poland only 7 per cent. Taking into account the baseline situation, Finland is already producing much cleaner energy than Poland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u82	I will give the floor to Mr Hoskonen, the debatator, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u83	Mr President! In the end, the fact that when Finland has managed its forests well opens up huge opportunities for us is a good thing. Take a look at these rural communities, as in my homeland, there are many small plants, and all of them warm up almost with wood, and a little peat is put in. Getting the maximum power out of the CHP plant, which will certainly achieve the best result for the whole locality, for employment and climate policy. The big benchmark is Stockholm. Stockholm does not use coal at all. When the representative of the plant spoke here about climate change and how to combat it, would it be advisable first to put these things in order here in the capital region and do what Stockholm has done?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u84	Now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u85	Mr President! Now perhaps we should return to this government proposal 175, which, however, is about this temporary renewable energy production aid. Here's a couple of comments first. Representative Halmemenpää even considered it possible that, when this 2 terawatt hours were put out for competition in two different parts, this could be short. In my opinion, however, this cannot happen. If, after the first round of 1 TWh, 2 TWh are put out for competition in the second round, then the producers undertake to produce a certain amount of electricity in this scheme, but it does not, of course, prevent any producer from producing electricity without aid. Therefore, I understand that this kind of possibility does not even exist that this capacity could fall short here. Finland has committed itself to all international agreements, but in that debate I have just said that this climate policy is also an economic policy. The representative of the plant said in this regard that Sweden also uses wood better in the construction industry, and wood houses are imported to Finland from Sweden. It may not be because it is Swedish wood or that Sweden is using wood separately better than Finland, but because these factories are located in northern Sweden and enjoy substantial state aid, and therefore these products, namely wood, can be sold at a lower price on the international market. In a way, this competitive advantage will be improved in Sweden with the support of the state, and so will these houses in Finland. Everyone in this Chamber has emphasised this technological neutrality. Once this support has been prepared, everyone, I have understood, has also felt that no new wind power support will be made available here. In the debate have come up in fact these three issues of this kind are bigger, which will then have to be resolved in committee. This is a hydropower issue which seems to be surprisingly critical of the fact that this is not involved in this government proposal. The second point is, of course, these real opportunities for CHP institutions to participate in this competition. From this Pöyry report so much that it would be like a fifty-fifty situation, which I would consider to be good for myself, if this kind of situation would come, but before this first competition is made, then, yes, you must pretty carefully look at these CHP institutions' real chances of participating in this competition. In the background, however, we must bear in mind that this energy and climate strategy, which has been approved by Parliament in this Chamber, is very much in line with those guidelines for the construction of this temporary support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u86	Mr President! To the previous debate here: When the Greens say that it is too late, really if you think about Helsinki's solutions in terms of coal, are they too late and then do they come too little? All in all, this bill seeks that we replace fossil with domestic energy, especially solar and wind power, but here we have a great deal to do with this neutrality, that is to say, CHP plants are equally involved in it, and the systems of heat and electricity produced from wood are equally involved in it, and I hope that, as far as these are concerned, they will actually be included in it as well. We currently have a great deal of energy available, we still have about 30% of forest management fellings, and it will be just the right small-scale wood, which can only be used for this type of energy production, and we have had good projects in different municipalities to promote precisely the forest know-how of urban forest owners, that they have received this type of material through tree management. And we are currently in the sawmills with chewing and peeling mountains, and they too are being moved in the same way. I'm a little annoyed about leaving that hydropower out. As Mr Halmemenpää said, these small hydro power plants are certainly not within the framework of this project. I would see that we also have investment aid and other systems to promote these. What, then, is the problem here, why are we now supporting it, and why are investments in hydropower, what has been said here, currently not profitable? I have been to a few projects and the result has been that they could reform existing installations if the price of electricity were now EUR 50 per megawatt hour. At the moment, the Elspot price is about EUR 40. If we had a higher electricity price, we might not need to — but, of course, this is a very positive thing that we have cheap electricity at the moment. In other words, subsidies are needed so that action can be taken. On the other hand, when you look at the whole of Europe in a broad circle, the subsidies distort quite a bit the whole electricity market. For example, Energiewende In Germany it gives about 20 billion for renewable electricity, but at the same time, with the other hand it gives a couple billion to coal and other forms of energy at least by 2018. In Britain there will be more than EUR 100 for a megawatt-hour of nuclear power being built. And we have different systems in the North. In other words, even at EU level, a more integrated support system would also help in this respect. But this proposal, which is currently under discussion, is a technologically neutral and a good starting point for seeking a new guideline on domestic and bioenergy. Even now that we have been discussing and talking, we have about 2500 megawatts of imports. Halmemenpää brought up this hydropower, that we have hydropower in the north. But is Norway and Sweden authorized to provide us with its hydropower? That's where our imported energy comes from right now, in all situations. In what way do we guarantee Finland's own electricity security in these matters in the future? It was very triggered here at the beginning of January 15 of the year, when we had 15,000 megawatts of consumption, and there was a very high-pitched cake that we did well. Among other things, the wind was not blowing and the sun was not shining very much. So what will we also do to ensure the energy production of the dark winter months? I can see that it has been very sad at this point that, once the municipalities have reformed their installations, they have not placed those power generation systems there in very many recent competitions. In other words, when heated, electricity could also be produced, and this is good in that sense too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u87	Mr President! This recent debate showed quite well that, after all, there are few parties interested in economic policy, a real Finnish forestry policy with a long tradition, and exports and the current account. At least in the assembly we always try to look at the whole and make decisions that are best for the Finnish nation. I would like to make it clear in this debate that the fact that Finland's forests are managed well also means that we have a few forest fires which are extremely damaging to the climate. That is also why we should accept the fact that, when we increase fellings, there will be a certain drop and it will rise after 30 years, because that is how we will achieve the targets that the EU will set for our deficit through the Economic and Stability Pact. So, in my opinion, this whole thing needs to be controlled. I would understand, ladies and gentlemen, this debate, if it were so that we were to lose forests once and for all, but when the forest is cut down, there will always be a new one. Of course, the tendon is long, I admit, but it should be seen that, after all, we lose quite a bit of forest in the year. The other Central European countries have long since cut off their forests, and now we are being punished because we are losing some 10,000 hectares per year. The only thing that matters to me in the long term is how much forest is lost. The Finns have never been so stupid, and they will not be so stupid as to destroy their own forests, but they will be better managed, fertilized, and we will do everything we can to accelerate growth, as it now seems to be accelerating, partly due to climate change, of course, and this will lead to more carbon sinks in these forests. In my opinion, Finland will do its part, but when it comes to this economic competition and protectionism, which is an international phenomenon, it is worth the Finnish Parliament to be very aware of it and to make solutions that improve Finland's competitiveness and current account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u88	At this stage, you can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u89	Mr President! Mr Eestilä gave a good speech, which also included the economy. It is also bound by these agreements. But CHP plants, and sawmills have been mentioned here, and I have some knowledge of that sector, and I would say that at the moment the shells and bits are getting wet in the yard. They are two or three years there, then driven 200 kilometres away by a diesel-driven car at cost when they have lost their calorific value and everything. If we now had a support system similar to wind power, it would be used for combined electricity production locally and an additional one could be fed into the grids. But now, in this aid scheme, what is there, there is no support for what is being injected into the networks, that is to say, the investment cannot be made there. That's why there's a bunch of chewing gum in that sawmill yard. They are not going to burn, because from Russia Finnish tax money imports wood chips and it is more competitive and better than this wet product we have in Finland. In other words, CHP power plants must become such a support system that it also covers electricity production, and if electricity becomes extra, it can be fed into the grid and it will remain so. That's when you start working on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u90	Mr President! With regard to the objective and pace of this bill, which Mr Pirttila referred to, it must of course be said that it is a good and right objective. We're all behind it. With regard to the desired pace and the small criticisms that have been expressed in this debate, it is true that if the first competition for this premium system takes place in autumn 2018, the first year of implementation will then be on the side of 2019 in full. Of course, everyone will understand that things that promote climate action should always be rushed rather than slowed down, but this is not a big year. The aid scheme and the model are therefore good and to be supported mainly. The small criticism is that this size class is a little modest, 2 terawatt hours per year. For we do not yet solve our renewable energy targets nor our climate targets, and indeed, as you said, Pirttilahti, Finland covers about 20% of its annual electricity consumption by imports. We all agree that we need more domestic renewable energy production, but it does not exclude the cooperation that we can do in the Nordic electricity market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u91	Mr President! Indeed, when we measure things, we have to think about economic, social and ecological sustainability, at least in the centre we do so, and in these recent twists these economic and social sustainability have, in many cases, remained a little secondary when, for example, our LULUCF and many others have been twisted. However, this forest production, domestic, local energy production is of great importance to social communities, village communities, cities and those self-employed. We must also look at these reforms from this point of view. On the other hand, this legislative package, which is now being presented, allows production units to make local energy. However, as Halmemenpää said, other measures must be taken here to promote the advancement of domestic energy and domestic economic well-being. One is public procurement, among other things. With these legislative acts, too, we can replace fossil fuels and thus promote, for example, this use of domestic energy in public buildings and elsewhere. We will probably get good at this when we get this to the committees and we think about some of these factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u92	Mr President, värderade Herr Talman! Det är bra att man återkommer med ett nowt system för att stöda förnyelsebar energi. Det är avgörande för att vi ska kunna nå våra klimatåtaganden. Det ärär ett now system och det blir intressant att följa med utskottsbehandlingen och sakkunnighöranden med utlåtanden från olika branscher. I propositionen står att project på Åland inte kan stödas i det nya stödsystemet. Näringstöd hör till Ålands behörighet enligt Ålands självstyrelselag. Det finns ändå inte några juridiska Hinder för att project på Åland kan få stöd och delta i detta system om den politiska grain finns. Den politiska grain borde hittas eftersom det skulle vara en bra sak för hela landet om project på Åland också kan delta. Ålands landskapsregering har nämligen mycket begränsade ekonomiska medel att själva töda den ox nitrogens satsningar. Att inga juridiska Hinder finns blev klart under beredningen av Senaste stödsystem för vindkraft. Att det inte finns några juridiska hinter för åländskt deltagande utredde också grundlagsutskottet och slog fast det i sitt utlåtande nummer 72/2014. Min förhopppning är därför att man skulle göra den lilla ändringen i lagförslaget och också möjliggöra för project på Åland att kunna få töd via det nya systemet. Det skulle stöda projects Smart Energy Island som arbets- och näringsministeriet och Åland gemensamt lanserat och som bland you give Tekes och Finpro stöder. Många finländska företag är också med i projects som vill använda Åland som testområde för bland you give att fungera som showroom för finländska technicalka innovationer som kunde bli nya exportprodukter och stöda Finlands economis samtidigt som det bidrar till att världen får nya innovationer som kan minska klimatutsläppen. I'm not an oerhört viktig sak. Att projekt på Åland kunde få stöd skulle också motiveras med att projekt på Åland kan bli mycket effektiva effectersom det blåser mest på Åland i hela landet. Annat soltimmar är aven stärst i hela norra Europa. Det erbjuder i sin tur goda förutsättningar för kostnadseffektiva project som är bra för att uppnå Finlands internationalella klimatål.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u93	Mr President! At the end of this debate, I have seen enough for me to conclude that, when we talk about renewable energy and about these various other related legislations, it would be very good for this nation to have a common understanding and a common vision that we will never survive these EUR 100 billion of debts — we must remember at the moment, and especially for all of us Finns, that we have EUR 100 billion in debt at the moment, and that the sum will grow by around EUR 3 billion next year — if we do not go out and use our own raw materials, their products will sell to the world and build this better Finland. Otherwise, we'll never make it out of those debts. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that when we give a picture of our economy outwards to the rest of the world, at the same time we give an idea of whether we are being trusted. If we are not trusted, then the routers responsible for the interest rate will classify us as an unreliable borrower, which means that the interest rate will rise. Every percentage that goes into the interest rate is a billion out of our government budget as a lost interest payment to creditors. This is our district where we play this game called the decisions of the Finnish Parliament. If we do not understand this, then we are rather weak when we do not use our own opportunities, or does someone imagine that we are paying off our debts by gambling on the stock market or by some other vis-à-vis us? If anyone thinks so, I wish him happiness and success on that crooked and very bumpy road.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u94	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u95	Mr President! The EU Home Affairs Funds are an important financial instrument for promoting internal security and a common Union immigration policy. These funds will strengthen the external borders and visa policy of the European Union, as well as police cooperation, crime prevention and prevention, and crisis management. In addition, the common asylum system of the European Union will be strengthened and developed, the integration of third-country nationals and legal immigration supported and return strategies developed. It is essential that the funds are fully operational. The Act on Home Affairs Funds entered into force on 1 January 2015. The Law laid down the criteria for national implementation of the Home Affairs Funds during the 2014 to 2020 programming period. Although the law is quite recent, the operating environment has changed rapidly in the field of funds and the updating of the law has become topical. The mid-term review of the Fund's programming period also identified the need for changes to the law, in particular in the decision-making process for amending the national programme and the national implementation programme. During the preparatory phase of the Act, changes were assessed up to a few times during the programming period. However, as a result of the migration crisis and the changes in the internal security environment, programmes have had to be amended considerably more frequently. Some of the changes have been of such minor or technical importance that it would have been appropriate to deal with them at ministerial level. Mr President! The Government proposes to amend the Law on Home Affairs Funds to give the Ministry of the Interior the power to amend the national programme and the national implementation programme in limited cases. As a rule, changes would continue to be decided by the Government. However, the Ministry of the Interior could decide on an amendment in the case of additional funding allocated by the European Commission to Finland, the reception of which does not require the exercise of national discretion. In practice, the Ministry of the Interior could make the necessary changes when the Commission adds additional funding to the Finnish national programme directly to the specific and national objectives without national discretion on the allocation of funding. In addition, the Ministry could decide on an amendment concerning the notification to the Commission of the additional amounts referred to in the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund Regulation and the number of persons on which they are based, or any other minor change. I would stress, for example, at this point when it comes to the number of persons, that they are always decided first by the Government, but once they have been decided there, then the Ministry of the Interior should have the opportunity to inform the funds that it would not have to be taken to the Government. The decision-making of the Ministry of the Interior would always be preceded by a consultation of the Monitoring Committee for the National Programme. The Government also proposes that a technical amendment be made to the law on the consideration of any other funding and return for the lump sum project financed by the Funds in the decision-making process. With these changes, we believe that the additional administrative burden will be reduced and that the Home Affairs Funds will become more effective in promoting internal security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u96	Mr President! I think this bill is appropriate. It allows for the abolition of administratively heavy government proceedings in limited cases. For example, in the case of technical changes or changes which are small and limited in euro, they can then transfer this competence to the Ministry. After all, the legislation on these funds was drawn up during the last parliamentary term and was based on the two funds set up for the European Union's financial programming period 2014-2020, namely the Internal Security and Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. I would now like to draw attention to the fact that this is one of the tools for promoting a well-managed and secure immigration policy. This includes, for example, a separate financial contribution from which Member States can apply for substantial support for the reception of quota refugees, and I think that this is one of the things that should be taken even more into account in both Finland and other countries of the European Union that we could promote this direct placement of quota refugees from refugee camps in municipalities. In this regard, we should note that the European Union is indeed very much in favour of this action, and I think that it should also be made better use of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u97	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u98	Mr President! This bill therefore concerns the amendment of the church law and aims to ensure that the church law follows the principles of other official and labour law, and then proposes the same changes to the church law that have been made to them. Facilitation of employment and promotion of reemployment also meet the needs of the church, and it is important that those who are employed by the church are treated equally, whether they are covered by the church's official legislation or whether they are members of the church's contractual staff. And this is a very significant number of persons, namely, the total number of church staff is almost 20,000. Unfortunately, the employment potential of the church has also decreased slightly in recent years, which means that the number of employees has decreased. About half of these staff are employees in contracts of employment, 53%, and then the share of officials is 47%. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the aim of this proposal is also to improve employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed. The purpose of this amendment is to enable the employer to ask the Employment and Economic Development Office for information on long-term unemployed persons suitable for work and to provide employment for the long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u99	Mr President! This proposal to amend Chapter 6 of the Church Act is very good and worthy of support. The fact is that in Finland today the value of the work of the congregations has really increased significantly in recent years. In society, the increase in the number of dangerous things has been quite worrying. There has been a tremendous increase in distress and various other problems in this country, and congregations often have to respond to man’s first distress because they are there on the ground to discover the terrible situations that this present world has led to. Such legislative changes, which are able to break down and make the bureaucracy slightly more flexible, are good things. However, Mr President, these are the issues we are dealing with today, the removal of the various obstacles to employment or the reduction of red tape, there should be almost half a dozen legislative proposals per day on the parliamentary list if we genuinely want flexibility, elasticity and speed in the labour market to respond to different situations. Then we would be much stronger to face the next recession, because you always have to remember that even though we are living in a booming season, the next recession is probably already around the corner. No one knows when it's coming, but it's probably in the next five years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u100	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u101	Mr President! I propose that this bill be rejected, as is justified by disagreement. This government proposal to dictate the district court network would in fact deserve better treatment in Parliament. In the feedback debate on the committee's report itself, there was only a few Members of Parliament who were defending the government's proposal in this Chamber. The chairman of the committee was, of course, here to discuss it, but unfortunately Minister Häkkänen did not feel that the question was sufficiently important to be involved. In honour of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I would like to reiterate that I believe that the discussion has been thorough and that the challenges have been taken seriously. Together, we have identified difficult problems and negative consequences, for example, for the fulfilment of linguistic rights or accessibility across the country. But the concerns of the Legal Affairs Committee have not received much response since the government or the Minister of Justice. The expert hearings have also given very strong reasons for doubting that the savings targets of the government proposal could be met. Rather, I think that the opposite is the case: The special challenge facing the largest district courts is the costs and inefficiencies of the large organisation in multi-step communication and limited flexibility. The merger of functional district courts with the largest ones certainly does not result in efficiency or savings. It is difficult to increase the efficiency of district courts, precisely by saving away resources, i.e. people, skilled personnel. The knowledge which, for example, has gathered and recaptured district courts and their offices is now being destroyed. Old staff are less often transferred to new units. This knowledge is very valuable human capital, which is of course difficult to measure in terms of money, but I think it is worth recalling that savings are really expensive here. Experts have warned us about congested district rights and language problems. Finland’s bilingualism is usually measured in the ability of public services to respond to the needs of Swedish-speaking citizens, especially in education, health care and justice. The dismantling of fully-functioning bilingual district courts is also very short-sighted in bilingual or otherwise Swedish-speaking areas. It shows complete ignorance of the living conditions of bilingualism and it is irresponsible to undermine the foundations of the rule of law. In principle or politically, it is a continuum for the government's policies. I believe that once again the government is turning its back on securing the vitality of bilingualism in Finland. I really did not even fear such a violent disregard for the assembly and the centre. In my opinion, historylessness is overwhelming and confusing. We can't afford to scrap well-functioning district courts. We cannot afford to abolish bilingual societies. We cannot afford to empty newly repaired or built functional premises. But we can afford to maintain a network of courts that in reality and in practice secures everyone's access to justice regardless of their place of residence, including in the north, and we can afford to safeguard the linguistic rights on which the country's bilingualism rests. The government's proposal will cost us both money and the collapse of the rule of law. — I reject the motion on the grounds of disagreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u102	Mr President! Firstly, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Biaudet. The proposal to transfer central judicial functions from the Ministry of Justice to an independent judicial office has progressed. Minister of Justice Häkkänen said on 6 October that he was proposing the establishment of a judicial office. The Agency should be responsible for the conditions under which the judiciary operates and for developing, designing and supporting the functioning of the courts. Planning and evaluation of the options for implementation, such as the reform now proposed, would be a core task for the Court of Justice. Thus, when a judicial office is being set up, the reform of the district court network should have been submitted to it. The Government's proposal on the reform of the district court is also very much linked to the Government's proposal to concentrate summary litigation on certain district courts. Summarious litigation constitutes a significant part of the workload of district courts and it would therefore have been appropriate to assess their possible concentration in parallel with the present reform, in particular in terms of the staff and premises needs of district courts. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered that the implementation of reforms in the same area as separate legislative projects could mean that the committee would have to assess a particular proposal on the basis of incomplete information and would not be able to take into account the cumulative effects of the various proposals in its assessment. This is also the problem with this house in some other cases, that we are still returning these presentations and not bringing them together. The joint examination of draft laws has not taken place because the draft law on the centralisation of summary disputes has been delayed and the reform of the district court has nevertheless been taken forward. The savings estimates of the government's proposal are weakly and uncertainly justified. The calculations do not take into account the costs incurred by the court staff, the parties and their impact on the travel costs to be reimbursed by the State. The Ministry of Justice has considered that it is not in a position to determine precisely such costs. However, the SDP parliamentary group believes that there should have been at least some proper assessment of this issue. The representative, Mr Biaudet, raised linguistic questions. When I come from the north, it must be said in the case of the Sámi language that it is quite clear that when the border of justice moves southward, the linguistic rights are also weakened. This has come up several times in the hearings. In the last 30 years, we have reduced the district courts from 96 to 20. The most recent district court reform was carried out in 2010, when the number of district courts was reduced from 51 to 27. Nor is there any explanation of the impact of this reform on access to justice or on the functioning of the judiciary. In fact, the government has had nothing more to justify this proposal than pure savings of between EUR 7 and EUR 7.5 million and the benefits of specialisation. As an objection to this, I say that a good lawyer is able to look into the matter as if it were a matter of taking over. There were some pain points in this presentation, especially Varkaus, Iisalmi, Raasepori, Porvoo, Raahe and Sodankylä, and I would have liked to see the representatives of the government parties receive this. Now, in this proposal, the workers are being put on the road, the limited police resources are being tied to district transport, the technology is being relied on, for example, video hearings which are practically uncertain, the distances between them are long and, in part, the public transport connections are weak, which means that this proposal can also be expected to have spill-over effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u103	Värderade Herr Talman! Regeringens förslag till tingsrättsreform kommer radikalt att minska annat tingsrätter och sessionsplatser genom nedläggningar och sammanslagningar. Lagförslaget heter ironiskt utvecklingen av tingsrättsnätverket. Denna utveckling innebär att många tingsrätter kommer att läggas ned. Sessionsplatser dras in. De föreslaggna nedläggningarna av kanslier och sessionsplatser drabbar många delar av landet, men nedläggningarna på orter med Svenskspråkig befolkning löper risk att förorsaka betydande svårigheter att säkerstalla service på svenska i framtiden. Om reformen godkänns i morgon kommer enbart Ålands tingsrätt att vara kvar som tingsrätt med svenska som förvaltningspråk i hela landet. Genom att gå så hårt emot tingsrättsstrukturerna på svenska riskerar nedläggningarna att i framtide äventyra äventtsäkerheten för Svenskspråkiga finländare. Statliga omorganiseringar får inte leda till att staten inte kan uppfylla sina språkliga skyldigheter enligt grundlagen. Tingsrättsreformen kommer också att påverka auskulteringsplatserna. Våra tingsrätter har i dag en synnerligen viktig utbildnings function genom auskulteringsplatser. Genom function skerstaller man bland you give att det finns Svenskspråkig personal inom domstalsväsendet i framtiden. Enligt regeringens förslag skulle detta inte kunna säkerstallas effectsom annat plasser minskas från dagens fem till två. Sammanlagt finns det i hela landet 138 auskulteringsplatser. Två auskulteringsplatser på svenska är inte tillräckligt. Lagutskottet gör en ändring i lagen som möjliggör flera auskulteringsplatser på svenska, men det heger på regeringen om det blir fler platser i practicen. Regeringen måste verklogen se till att den öjligheten som lagsutskottet lagt till används. Man ska så klart också kunna se över rättssystemets verksamhet och effectivitet, men det får inte gå ut över kvaliteten så att det på sikt riskerar äventyra äventtsäkerheten. Det gör det nu när reformen också kommer kort effecter den Senaste reformen, som inte ännu utvärderats ordentligt. Reformen får inte försvaga statens faktiska vöjligheter att fullt ut kunna uppfylla sina språkliga åtaganden, men det riskerar den att göra. Detta för att enligt justitieministerieets tjänstemannaarbetsgrupps bedömning spara under 10 million euro per år. Grundlagsutskottet constaterade i sitt utlåtande att förslaget har consekvenser för de språkliga rättigheterna och den Svenskspråkiga domstalsservicen. Det är en grundlagsenlig ragtaghet att i egen sak använda sitt eget språk hos domstal. Rättsskyddets tillgänglighet och kvalitet är direkt sammankopplat med denna rättighet. Grundlagsutskottet har också gjort en kritisk observation i att det under beredningen av propositionnen kom fram att de nuvarande tingsrätternas Svenskspråkiga personal inte är wildg att flytta till de nya orterna. Det kommer att drstiskt försvåra öjligheterna att tillgodose de språkliga rättigheterna i practiceken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u104	Mr President! I support the rejection of Mr Biaudet's motion. This government proposal undermines the legal protection of citizens. According to the Judiciary, the proposal is regionally, geographically, unbalanced and does not achieve equality. In particular, linguistic rights are weakened in the case of Swedish and Sami. The impact is strongly on, for example, Uusimaa, where Raasepori and Porvoo operations are being driven down, even though it has already been difficult to recruit Swedish-speaking staff to the Espoo office. It is a great shortcoming that the 2010 District Courts' qualifiers and its effects have not been investigated, but that the 7 District Courts' closures and the closure of the 21 District Courts' sittings are now directly proposed. This will have a wider impact on the quality and availability of justice services, including the employment impact of regions and the location of legal aid offices and law firms. In the case of the Sámi-speaking people: Their journey to the legal services is going to take a really long time. It is 500 kilometres from Ivalo to Oulu. With regard to this proposal, we are already considering the legal security of the people — and this savings, which have in fact been called into question by experts. In a state of justice, people's legal protection is an important value that must be upheld.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u105	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! Jag vill börja med att understöda ledamot Biaudets förslag om förkastande, och i och för sig också alla hennes motiveringar. Några reflexer ändå. I den reservation som lämnats in i lagutskottet constateras det att de centralare problemen i reformen henför sig till de språkliga rättigheterna, den regionala Jämlikheten och tidpunkten för reformen, och det är helt sant. Regeringens proposition ger inte garantier för hur man i framtiden ska kunna trygga en tillräcklig Svenskspråkig personal, särskilt i Nyland och Österbotten. Särskilt osäkert är det om kanslipersonalen räcker till i framtiden trots att regeringen i propositionsmotive concretear att man kommer att fästa uppmärksamhet vid saken. Men det rucker ju inte att fästa uppmärksamhet vid saken, det gäller att kunna trygga de språkliga rättigheterna. I Grundlagens § 17 stadgas om de språkliga rättigheterna. Enligt den paragrafen tryggas pultt att använda sitt modersmål i domstal, om det så är finska eller svenska, och att få sitt rättsärendes handlingar på det språket. I samma grundlag stadgas det lustaså om den offentliga mactens scyldighet att it till att den finsk- och Svenskspråkiga befolkningens rattigheter förverkligas. Article 122 of the Och i grundlagens stadgas också om statsförvaltningens regionala uppdelning, genom Vilken man ska se till att den finsk- och Svenskspråkiga befolkningens öjligheter att få service på det egna språket sker på samma villkor. Det rauh förslaget phyller tuvavar inte de krav som grundlagen ställer. Det är nu min uppfattning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u106	Mr President! From the outset, it must be said that the Chamber is very wide-ranging and, at least, not many speakers in favour of this motion have been heard in this Chamber and I doubt that they will necessarily be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u109	Mr President! I personally believe that all the contributions to the content have already been made, and I will not go into them myself. Of course, everyone will defend their own position and believe in it, but I will take the floor a little more generally. In my opinion, the most important task for managers is to motivate employees. That's how you get the best results out of the company. If the leader fails in this work, the company’s results will fall short. At least I personally feel that the role of the state is very similar. The task of the state is to motivate regions, their companies and people to work for the Finnish state, to build well-being here, to build export income, to build gross domestic product. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why I would have liked this government proposal to be somewhat different, but I understand that a majority in this Parliament has the right and the power to make a cake to its liking. It may be worth paying attention to today's events and looking at the Kemi-Tornio region. There is an outsourcing of the entire health care hospital, including for 15 years, and it would even be a little naive to believe that it is a sudden phenomenon or something. Usually things accumulate and then at some point someone breaks the camel's back. I believe that has been the case in the Kemi-Tornio region. This role of the regional cities in Finland today is not properly valued and respected, even though there is considerable work and growth in Finland's GDP, as in Upper Savo, 500 million is the balance of last year's exports. Somehow I have the impression that we in Parliament should pay more attention to this issue and discuss and appreciate those areas in Finland that bake that cake and GDP, but now people and businesses in the region feel that they are not appreciated,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u110	Mr President! This is a hard blow for you there for Iisalme and Varkaus, just as this is a hard blow in Lapland. We run out of Kemi District Court, only the Lapland District Court to Rovaniemi. Tornio ends as a place of business, Sodankylä's office as well as Kemijärvi. Mr Eestilä, you wrote in the Iisalme Sanomat on 2 November that there is of course still a small possibility in the form of a separate statement that the so-called Trio, the leaders of the government parties, up to the Prime Minister, would allow grace to pass over justice and Iisalmi would remain. I ask you now, Mr Eestilä, whether you are still behind this entry and whether a statement is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u111	Mr President! Of course I'll answer. This has to do with the fact that the representatives of the region were trying to reach the end of some kind of compromise that we would, as it were, have changed the content of this government's proposal. But I am not a lawyer, there are better people here who are able to assess the possibilities for Parliament to deal with these issues through a statement. If I am right, I have understood that when the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has adopted its report, it has been supported by all the representatives of the Centre Party, all the members of the Assembly, all the representatives of the People's Party and all the representatives of the Blue Parliamentary Group. Then the statement cannot conflict with this report and therefore this statement cannot be used to amend the report adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This is my own view of the matter, but, as I said, there are wiser people here who can possibly tell a different truth if it exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u112	Then we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u113	Mr President! This proposal by the government on the dismantling of the judiciary is justified by the savings which, in my opinion, have not been fully demonstrated. But, on the other hand, when you think about what happens to those concerned, they are going on longer trips, and so they are passing on expenses for longer journeys and travel expenses to these people, as well as the loss of working time, in that they are expensive things to these people. This is also part of the regional policy that should be pursued in Finland and what has always been said, especially at the mouth of the city centre, that we need to regionalise state offices and get jobs in the regions. These are now being reduced very considerably, and one wonders where it is in principle, how these jobs in society are being managed in the provinces. This is what will happen in Iisalmi, Varkaus, Northern and Eastern Finland and here in Southern Finland: these jobs will be taken into larger localities, and this will be visible in the economy of their smaller and regional cities. In my opinion, this is also about the most important issue, the legal protection of citizens, and that legal protection will be very much affected by this reform by the weakening of legal and judicial services for people. This has also been taken into account by the League of Judges, and it quite agrees on this point that we are now going in the wrong direction in the provision of justice services. I am in favour of rejecting the motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u114	Mr President! I was reading these documents, and this objection, which has been signed here by a number of Members, seems to me to be very good. I will look at these in a few points, and then I will make a specific point, particularly in my own town, Hyvinkää. These savings, which are being sought here, amount to between 3 and 3.5 million euros, and a few million euros will also come from the reduction of the various security arrangements and the Aipa equipment. After all, this Aipa system is an electronic system which, according to the information I have received from the judges, does not seem to be moving very well, it is always being moved and moved. I myself do not know how it always works when I work in the state administration, so that we buy those services from producers who never seem to be able to complete their electronic systems. Even though man flies into space, no matter what you do, you don't get it done. The fact that the effects of the 2010 reform have not yet been studied has also been well highlighted. The Judiciary Association and the Bar Association have pointed out very well that legal services are concentrated in district courts and, of course, legal advice is needed today in a wide range of matters, such as succession disputes, cancellations, many things that may not even be related to criminal or civil matters, and these services disappear from the local community. The President of the Supreme Court, Timo Esko, has also often brought this up. Savings are also sought through a reduction in the number of employees when they retire. After all, we have been reading in recent years about how the judges are very tired under their workload, so I am a little concerned about their coping, and it certainly does not get better with this. We should bear in mind that we are constantly increasing the legal obligations of judges, prosecutors by creating for them a range of things that they should check, for example, in processes, trials, and various duties of care that are added to them by law enforcement officers, and this will not at least reduce and reduce the workload. One thing in these previous speeches, on which I do not agree, is that in larger district courts, vulnerability is better dealt with, because absences in small units may lead to the absence of any judges. This could be done in such a way that the jurisdictions of judges would be wider and that this whole package would not be needed. For this reason, for example, in their alternative budget, Finns have today submitted additional funding to courts and prosecutors. I myself have worked in the judiciary and I am a lawyer and I have received a lot of feedback from there that we are no longer able to cope with that burden, and we cannot imagine that simply electrification would solve this problem, it cannot be this way. I will also bring a few comments on these regional issues. Indeed, I am from Hyvinkää and Hyvinkää in the City Board, and I myself have been giving this statement by the City of Hyvinkää as a member of the City Board. We have been very concerned and hoped that we would retain the seat and the office in Hyvinkää, because we have rather new premises, and that is what has happened in this proposal. But also Hyvinkää city like Hyvinkää and Tuusula District Court, which are located in Järvenpää, have considered that this region of Uusimaa should be divided into two areas with a large population, i.e. the district court of Hyvinkää and Tuusula, which would be approximately 275,000 inhabitants — this district court of Tuusula is located in Järvenpää, and here is the speciality that it is called Tuusula District Court — and then the district court of Vantaa and the present district court of Eastern Uusimaa would be merged into one of the district courts of Eastern Uusimaa. This would be very compact in size, and, for example, I have often been to that district court in Tuusula in Järvenpää and — I have not seen a fitness survey now — those facilities are very good. In view of this density of the network and travel expenses, it would be very accessible to people and would also support the preservation of other legal services in the region. In his statement, the President of the Supreme Court, Timo Esko, points out that, once this matter has been clarified in the preparation of civil servants — including the government’s proposal, pages 42 and 43 — this appears to be the case — what people, and in particular the authors of the opinions, have said about this: over half of the 300 contributors, by far 60%, opposed the reform. In other words, this would be something that should certainly be taken into account, because these people there who are involved in these matters certainly want to develop their work, but also so that legal protection is not compromised. And it should also be borne in mind that people also have a meaningful amount of work, that it does not diminish the fact that we increase district courts. Of course, this is not the case; there must be sufficient resources. And, as I said, this data bank on e-services Aipa has suffered constant hardships, and it is currently estimated that its widespread deployment will take place at the beginning of 2019, possibly. Let us hope that this progresses in any case. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which I belong, called for follow-up to this, and this is what has been done in the actual report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I believe that this is a hasty exercise because there has been no study of the effects of 2010. There are individual points which are worthy of support, but this whole thing is certainly not to be supported. That is why the Finnish Parliament Group has had a debate on this issue, and we, as a group, are in favour of rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u117	Mr President! Here, among other things, Mr Ojala-Niemelä asked whether no representative of the government party is in favour of this bill, and I can say that I am here to defend it. One reason for this is that we already read in the Government Programme that judicial processes are being speeded up and that it is possible for courts to concentrate on core tasks. And one way to improve the focus on core tasks is by increasing the size of district courts and expanding the jurisdiction, allowing them to specialise and focus on the development and improvement of judges' capacity and skills. It must be remembered that district courts are not such basic services as health centres or clinics that a person needs weekly, but a normal citizen gets involved with them a few times in his life. It is therefore very important that they should be able to concentrate on specific support for these complex and increasingly difficult cases. It was also noted here, among other things, by representatives Karimäki and Hänninen that the restructuring of the district courts in 2010 would not have been assessed. This report by the Legal Affairs Committee does state that the effects of the reform have been examined in 2013 with regard to three district courts, and it has been stated specifically that the establishment of larger units has made the resources of district courts more efficient and has improved their productivity and economy. Well, then, of course, a very complicated and thorough consideration has been made as to which district courts are to be retained, and here we have listened very carefully, among other things, to those who represent these linguistic rights, taking into account the Swedish-speaking and Sámi-speaking starting points. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u120	Madam President! Many people are already wondering whether they dare to rely on the availability of district courts and judicial services in fear of costs. And it is quite clear that now that the district network is still being reduced, the distances are becoming longer and people are becoming more aware that the availability of justice is even worse than in the past and does not dare to resort to legal services. And I think this is a wrong development. We are now going beyond the pain limit and threshold that we are beginning to have too few district court networks in this country. It is true that this is not a local service. Few people visit district courts every day, let alone once a year, but I can tell you that if the district court is a thousand kilometres away, as this makes up a 500 km page, it is a memorable district trip, even if it does only once a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u121	Mr President! Representative Kauma said that many times in their lives people do not need legal services and it is not a local service. That is the case, but when people need these services, there are issues that are relevant to them. The quality of justice services will then be extremely important and linguistic rights will be essential. It is essential that a person can visit legal services in his or her own mother tongue and understand all the complex language that is involved in this process. Mr Kauma said that consideration would have been given here to safeguard linguistic rights, but this was hardly the case. If you carefully read that objection and the reasons for it, it is precisely in the Sámi-speaking regions of Uusimaa, Ostrobothnia and the north that experts have very strongly criticised the implementation of these linguistic rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u122	Madam President! This proposal has been dealt with in a very thorough manner in committee and has been very diverse in terms of its various effects. I must say that, at least in committee, I remained in the view that the majority of the members of the committee expected and hoped to the very end that reason would win and that Minister Häkkänen would bring such a proposal as a compromise which would have allowed these many pain points raised here to be met, and we as a committee could have tabled a unanimous motion on this. But since this did not happen, the opposition, with the exception of the Finns, has taken a completely unanimous decision on this issue in the form of an objection, which I also support here, and I am expressing its views and its views. This reform of the district court poses a significant threat to access to justice. There's no way out of it. The Government proposal in question proposes restructuring district courts, which would result in a reduction in the district court network in Finland to 20 district courts instead of the 27 district courts currently in force. Furthermore, the seats will be reduced from 57 to 36, which can be regarded as a truly dramatic change. These major constitutional changes started in the 1990s, when the rights of the engagement and the rights of the perpetrators were abolished and the number of sub-licences was reduced from 97 to 70 district courts. In the 2000s, the merger of smaller district courts has been gradually extended to 66 district courts in 2000 and only 50 in 2007. The latest restructuring took place from the beginning of 2010, when the number of district courts was halved from 51 to 27, and now we are going to 20. Everyone may wonder who is following this debate here in the Chamber and there at home, that when 100 comes to 27, how will it not affect the availability of justice? I'm saying the equation is very clear. Furthermore, given the situation in Iisalme, its legal environmental impact, and then the difficult situation in Lapland and even these linguistic changes, we can even talk about the disaster situation in the Finnish judiciary — perhaps not yet a disaster, but the direction is very clear. This is a very logical direction in this direction, and it does surprise me that, after reading people in government parties, a lot of lawyers are among them, how do they agree to this kind of activity? I'm surprised at this. It is clear from the above that the district court network has undergone significant structural changes over the last decades and has reduced the network. The reform now being proposed, such as restructuring, was carried out in a manner that was promised to be followed, but, as has been shown here, only three district courts have carried out that monitoring. I think this is a major deficiency. There is no way to call it the sort of explanation that was originally thought of here. Finally, on the Court of Justice: the main reason for the motion to reject is also the bad timing of the reform. The reform should not be carried out until it has been decided whether a planned judicial office will be established in Finland. In May 2016, a committee was set up at the Ministry of Justice to prepare for the establishment of a judicial office. The Council set up by the Minister of Justice submitted its proposal on 21 April 2017. The committee proposed that a judicial office be set up in Finland. It would have been wise to leave this reflection on the network now to this judicial office, which is now to be set up. Another very bad thing about this reform is that, when most of these savings are thought to be due to the computer and software reforms in Aipa, it has now also been decided to postpone this reform to 2021. I am simply sincerely asking all the representatives of the government parties what a hurry this reform was. This would have been a very good reason to carry out these assessments of the previous reform to the end, then to look at this Court of Justice card and then to see the implementation of this IT reform, how it works in practice and whether it will generate savings. This reform has been justified by the change in the operating environment of the courts and the need for measures to ensure a high quality of justice. The creation of larger administrative units aims to influence the workload and allocation of resources more effectively and evenly. Unlike this objective, I believe that the reform is now undermining these objectives. There has been no evidence on the basis of expert consultations that this reform will somehow make the trial more effective. Rather, major dangers and weaknesses have been seen in the fact that this reform represents a significant threat to linguistic rights, particularly in this country. Although I am not in Swedish myself, I do find it wonderful that, when we are officially a bilingual country and the Constitution protects this bilingualism, how on earth do we go in this direction, that soon Swedish-speaking services will not really be available anywhere but Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u123	Mr President! Everything that is relevant to this district court case itself has been said more or less. Good conversation on the sides, the other side and the third. I have a few ideas to follow up on, as it were, Mr Estilä's speech. This is a question of the future of a great many regional cities. This is precisely the kind of regional cities that are affected by the District Court ruling, and as we read in the statistics, as much as 15% of GDP is generated in these regions and regions because of the fact that there are really successful export companies and that the regional structure is well balanced due to the vitality of the regional cities. Over the years, citizens have had the feeling that the state is somehow withdrawing from these areas, due to the fact that various ministries have made such cutting decisions and that these cuttings have piled up in these neighbourhood cities, one and the same. The Parliamentary Audit Committee drew quite serious attention to this at the time, a few times backwards. The vote will be as it will be. Is it tomorrow or when, the result is whatever it is, and we must be able to look further in this area, beyond the vote. Our serious thought is especially about North Savo and Upper Savo that the government of the country, this present one, and future governments take serious account of the feelings in the towns in question, that is, the feeling that the state will withdraw from it for all activities. With regard to those feelings and on the basis of which they can be created, I say it here, almost anything — even something that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u124	Mr President! All that has just been said by Mrs Kääriäinen is, of course, completely irresistible. Of course, this proposal also applies to my own country, mainly in the case of sittings, and, of course, the biggest question that has been raised many times in this Chamber today is how the availability of these legal services can now be secured, despite geographical distances. But at the same time, of course, when assessing this reform, it is necessary to assess the kind of treatment that each individual client's case requires specifically before a court, and it is also a fact that many are routine cases that do not require the customer's own admission to the court. When this is the case, which is what it is at the moment, I think we should at least look at it in such a way that, now that this network of courts is being changed, we must invest in electronic commerce and the full use of technology, including video technology, and it is therefore absolutely essential that, in this context, we also invest in joint municipal and state service points and their electronic resources so that, among other things, this video technology can be used and used in these cases. In other words, I dare even say in such a way that I demand that, in the development of this state’s joint service points, a whole new gear be put on by the state and the ministries, too, at that municipal level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u125	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this good debate and, of course, for the good report by the committee: this issue has at least been thoroughly dealt with. We need to reform the administration of justice, which is why we have a judicial reform programme that goes beyond the parliamentary term. And, in fact, this judicial network, the district court network, must also be reformed. Of course, savings will be made at this moment, but above all in the future. I believe that this reform must be carried out in order to equip our district courts with appropriate technical equipment. It is true that this Aipa, the so-called material bank, is still being delayed, it is regrettable, but the fact is that it is only one part of this technical change in the district court. There is an opportunity to establish these remote connections so that witnesses, the parties, perhaps even suspects, do not have to come to the district court in every case, but can be handled at a distance. Similarly, security arrangements must be updated and we cannot afford to equip all these existing halls for this condition. In addition to legislation that reduces the need for the parties to enter district courts — for example, now the so-called fine law, which is in the Committee on Legal Affairs — I believe that we will be able to do so. And so is the other thing: judges want to specialise. Our legislation has become more difficult here in Finland and because of the EU. Specialization is needed, and it will be more successful in the larger courts. Similarly, work can be divided more evenly, and it is less vulnerable than it is, even though it is now being taken to the courts of five judges, where, due to small disappearances, it is no longer very viable. So I think that this reform is necessary to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u126	Mr President! As Mr Tolvanen said earlier, this is just one part of this restructuring of the judicial and judicial process. Mr Laukkanen said earlier that this would be a disastrous reform, but I think that he is really exaggerating this situation. We must remember that structural reforms must also follow the direction of population movements. So when people go to bigger cities, the services go there more. It is not meant that district courts can be found in every peninsula and so on. Mr Laukkanen then also raised the question of the possible establishment of this judicial office and that the decision should be postponed until then, but the status of staff must also be borne in mind. They are living in uncertainty, and reforms need to move forward, and this is a good way to start it. And finally, Mr President, this is a language issue. The Government cannot and does not want to undermine the position of the Swedish-speaking Sámi,andin this sense,as in the past,we will continue to comply with the provisions of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u127	Mr President! I personally believe that bilingual services are best secured in the agencies by quotas for linguistic judges. I see and see this so that the entire agency does not have to be named Swedish; the most important thing is that people know the language they should know and that it does not matter where it was learned. It is also accompanied by this experiment of free choice of languages. Perhaps they were somewhat surprised by the contributions made by the Assembly. In particular, Mr Eestilä spoke about export companies, and Kääriäinen, and motivation. Perhaps now, however, we are talking about the right of citizens to legal certainty and the right to appeal, and it is perhaps not quite comparable to the world of limited liability companies and that agility. However, we have very strict procedural regulations in court and in judicial matters, and that is not just the fact that the management is motivated there. First of all, there is no reward system so that it is a little difficult to motivate. There's nothing there except that if you do your job fast, you'll get more work. Then the second question with regard to staff is that in Hyvinkää district, for example, part of it is now transferred to the Hämeenlinna district because of the transfer of Riihimäki and Lope. There will also be a shift of staff, so that this does not only apply to customers, but also to staff. Some of them live in Hyvinkää, among other things, and that too is something that annoys people, and it is good to remember that. Of these video devices: Nevertheless, although much is now being counted on here, it still does not seem to be making much progress. I therefore hope that the government parties will now, if this is counted on these joint service points, ensure that funding and expertise are provided. I myself have sometimes been an official of the Local Register Office at such a joint service point, and there when nothing really worked and then there were not everyone's staff and then there were contradictions about the competence of legal advice and how it had come about, then I don't know if that money will be transferred now just then to the community service points here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u128	Madam President! It is precisely so, as Mrs Kääriäinen has said here, that in the past state jobs have been reduced, especially in rural municipalities, and it will take some time for the other legal services of the sub-regions to be abolished. During the last parliamentary term, when the SDP was in the government, I was tired of hearing this cry of concentration from the representatives of the Central Party, and now that Iisalme is out of surgery at the hospital and the district court office is closed, you can say that this is a pretty absurd decision because the staff have no choice but to start sawing between Iisalme and Kuopio. In addition, the custody of the Iisalme office is also supported by the Sukeva Prison. Mr Kääriäinen, you are very much trusted in that area, and you have stated in Iisalme Sanomat on 24 October that you are opposed to the closure of the office. So I ask you: what will you do for the preservation of the office? Should not one more effort be made to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u129	Madam President! To Mr Kauma, as a point of detail, I said that this direction is disastrous. There is a slight difference between this proposal being disastrous. The extent of these effects, which are now emerging from this reform, should be taken into account that these removals of district courts will, over time, mean the disappearance of other legal services, such as legal aid, legal and legal aid services, and therefore the effects of this change will extend to a much wider area than the district court services. In view of the fact that, even though these services leave Savonlinna and other really big, important things have left it, this whole thing is really starting to look like the countryside is going to be cut off from these services, and I agree with Mr Kääriäinen's concern about what this activity is going to look like on the other side of Ring 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u130	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u131	Mr President! At second reading there is a government proposal from HE 80 of these Parliaments and the related report from the Administrative Committee on the laws on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of working as seasonal workers and on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of intra-corporate transfer and certain related laws. According to the Group of the Finnish People's Party, this government proposal would be risky if it were implemented, as it would open the way to removing the needs test of the workforce, at least in certain professional sectors. Our parliamentary group believes that there is no desirable development that the proposal will partially bypass the Employment and Economic Development Offices in considering the availability of labour. Among other things, the Government Programme has stated that the main rule of labour needs assessment will continue to be the continuation of existing practices. During the extensive committee reading of the proposal, the Finns have also drawn attention to the fact that EU Member States are, as a general rule, obliged to treat third-country nationals covered by the directive on an equal footing with their own nationals in the field of social security, which entails an additional cost of several million euros. Temporary resident workers would therefore be entitled to public health and special care services, among other things. In principle, however, the most important point is that the draft law would reduce the scope for labour supply analysis compared to the current one. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is vital to ensure first whether the unemployed people in Finland can be employed. On this basis, I object to the proposed rejection of legislative proposals 1 to 13 in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u132	Mr President! As Mr Savio, the representative of the Finns Party, rightly expressed the position of our group, I would like to say here that I support Mr Savio's objection. It is the wish of the entire basic Finnish group. The solution is always that we can speed up processes and liberalise certain areas, but it is precisely these criteria that Mr Savio has raised that our group believes are the ones that should reject these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u133	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 23/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u134	Mr President! Firstly, on the basis of the report by the Administrative Committee, a little general about this draft law. First of all, the Government proposal proposes to amend the State Civil Service Act, the Security Clearance Act and the laws of the National Defence College, the Police Professional High School and the Border Guard Administration. The general objective of the proposed amendments is to ensure the protection of key national security interests by developing security of personnel in the state administration. The purpose is to ensure that the appointment process takes account of the integrity of those elected to the tasks of the State administration, the independence required for the performance of the tasks from different links and other reliability as required by the duties in office. It is clear from the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal that during the preparation process there has also been an option to amend the State Civil Service Act to list the posts to which only a Finnish citizen can be appointed who does not have the nationality of another State. However, this has been abandoned, inter alia, because such a regulation would have contained some problems with regard to the non-discrimination and non-discrimination of the Constitution. The preparation has come to the conclusion of this proposal, which examines security issues related to foreign interests in a more general way. In its report, the Administrative Committee considers it essential that the main national interests be protected as fully as possible. These benefits cannot be adequately protected from the point of view of staff security, except by investigating and taking into account the foreign interests of those who are appointed to certain posts. According to the proposal, risks arising from foreign ties will be identified and assessed as part of the procedure laid down in the Security Clearance Act. The proposed regulation will also allow the protection of key national interests when the person to be appointed is only a Finnish citizen or a task of national interest is carried out in a private company. In its report, the Administrative Committee points out that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence are currently carrying out studies on the legislative changes needed in the administrative branches of those ministries, which could, as a general rule, only appoint a Finnish citizen to the military posts of the Border Guard and the Defence Forces, who does not have any other nationality. The Administrative Committee considers the objectives of the proposal to be supported and the proposed amendments to be necessary and appropriate. However, in its unanimous report, the committee is in favour of adopting the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal. The Administrative Committee proposes a small clarification of the first draft law, i.e. the amendment of the State Civil Service Act to Article 8c(1) of the draft law. Mr President! A few comments on this proposal. First of all, Finnish citizenship is a prerequisite for the appointment of a post. Article 7(1) of the State Civil Service Act provides for posts for which only a Finnish citizen can be appointed. The list of these provisions covers, among other things, senior government posts as well as those of the Defence Administration, the Police Administration, the Border Guard, Customs and the Judiciary. A Finnish citizen may continue to be appointed to these posts even if he or she also holds the nationality of another State. It is proposed that the list of posts requiring Finnish citizenship be specified and partially extended. The amendments extend somewhat the scope of the provision. After the change, Finnish citizenship is required for more than 23000 posts or posts. Compared to the current situation, there are approximately 250 new posts and posts. At the end of 2016, the total number of government officials was around 67,000. The Government's proposal justifies, for each task, why Finnish citizenship is required for these tasks. On the basis of the report received, the Administrative Committee considers the condition of Finnish citizenship to be justified in the posts listed. Integrity and reliability of the person to be appointed. In this respect, the committee is therefore proposing a minor amendment. It is proposed to introduce an explicit provision in Article 8c of the State Civil Service Act to ensure that the appointment process ensures the integrity of the person elected to the post and that he does not have any interests which could jeopardise the proper performance of the duties of the post. The proposed amendment aims to ensure the integrity, independence and reliability of persons selected for key tasks of state security before making appointments better. The proposed provision will contribute to a more effective implementation of the general criteria for designation in practice. The committee points out that the person's background is different in terms of importance and importance in different posts and positions. For example, information on specific data sets that are to be protected is required from those who use it continuously at work to have a high level of trustworthiness. The same applies to those involved in public security tasks as well as other persons who receive confidential information affecting key security interests in their duties. The assessment of one’s integrity and other reliability should always be task-related. Integrity refers to a person’s conduct without offence, which means that he has not been sentenced to punishment. The Administrative Committee notes that the proposal concerns a new provision governing the appointment procedure for all State posts. Although the explanatory statement of the proposal states that the requirement of integrity is not written in the form of conditions of appointment, the draft provision may, according to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, constitute a requirement of integrity similar to that of the civil servants. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered the formulation of the requirement of integrity for all state posts to be somewhat problematic from the point of view of the legal protection of applicants. The Administrative Committee therefore proposes, taking into account the comments made in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, to clarify the provision of Article 8c(1) in such a way that the authority must take account of the integrity of the appointment or assignment and, as proposed in the Government's proposal, ensure that he does not have any responsibilities that jeopardise the proper performance of his duties and that he is also in a position in other respects to carry out his duties independently and otherwise reliably. As regards integrity, the wording of the provision is not as strict as that proposed in the government proposal, but leaves the appointing authority with discretion, for example, as to the importance of the minor offences of the former person in the appointment of office. Perhaps then, Mr President, a few words on the clarification of foreign interests as part of the security report. In the security procedure, the security authority — whether the protection police or the Chief Staff — shall establish the person’s background and the result to be drawn from the reliability of the person’s task to be carried out — shall draw up the safety officer’s report. As regards the tasks of the Defence Forces. The Personal Security Survey is the most important tool for assessing the reliability of the person to be selected for the employment relationship, in particular in the case of candidates for posts of key importance for security interests or qualifications leading to them. A report may also be drawn up on a person already in employment. A general condition for carrying out a safety report is that the subject of the investigation has given its consent. Personal security clearance may be carried out in a limited, basic or extensive manner. The data sources used in the survey are the larger the more critical the person is being selected. With regard to sanctions, the committee drew attention to the fact that the government's proposal does not propose imposing sanctions in the event of situations where, during the selection procedure, the person is knowingly supplying the authority with incomplete or incorrect information or concealing a matter which is part of the matters to be clarified, for example in the safety report. According to the report received, the case will be settled in these circumstances on the basis of provisions of civil service law, such as termination of the service during the probationary period or termination. The Committee considers it necessary to monitor and assess the impact of the proposed changes, particularly from the point of view of the need to lay down more precise penalties for the provision of incomplete or incorrect information. This proposal also, of course, affects the resources of the competent authorities. The implementation of the law, among other things, will increase the workload of the protection police by approximately EUR 15 to 17 person-years and costs by approximately EUR 900000 depending on the number of subjects covered by the investigation procedure. And it should also be noted that the increase in resources and costs is permanent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u135	Mr President! The overall objective is to ensure the protection of key national security interests through the development of human resources security in the state administration. The purpose is to ensure that the appointment process takes account of the integrity of those elected to the tasks of the State administration, the independence required for the performance of the tasks from different links and other reliability as required by the duties in office. In this respect, too, this proposal is in the interests of all of us. It is clear from the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal that during the preparation process there has also been an option to amend the State Civil Service Act to list the posts to which only a Finnish citizen can be appointed who does not have the nationality of another State. However, this has been abandoned, inter alia, because such a regulation would have contained some problems with regard to the non-discrimination and non-discrimination of the Constitution. The preparation has come to the conclusion of this proposal, which examines security issues related to foreign interests in a more general way. It is necessary to protect key national interests as comprehensively as possible. These benefits cannot be adequately protected from the point of view of staff security, except by investigating and taking into account the foreign interests of persons who are designated as security risks. According to the proposal, risks arising from foreign ties will be identified and assessed as part of the procedure laid down in the Security Clearance Act. The proposed regulation will also allow the protection of key national interests when the person to be appointed is only a Finnish citizen or a task of national interest is carried out in a private company. Article 7(1) of the State Civil Service Act provides for posts for which only a Finnish citizen can be appointed. The list of these provisions covers, inter alia, the highest levels of state administration and the posts of the Defence Administration, the Police Administration, the Border Guard, Customs and the Judiciary. A Finnish citizen may continue to be appointed to these posts even if he or she also holds the nationality of another State. It is proposed that the list of posts requiring Finnish citizenship be specified and extended in part. The nationality requirement shall be extended to posts for which the administrator receives confidential and classified information, the unauthorised use, disclosure and other processing of which may jeopardise essential public interests. The list also includes tasks on the basis of a function which it does not currently have. The amendments extend somewhat the scope of the provision. After the change, Finnish citizenship is required in some 23,500 posts or posts. Compared to the current situation, there are approximately 250 new posts and posts. At the end of 2016, the total number of government officials was around 67,000. Madam President! I consider the proposal as a whole to be very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u136	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u137	Madam President! This government proposal will make the obligation to build shelters more flexible, and consequently, in the future, the floor squares that form part of the building of civil protection will not consume the total building right. This government proposal gives the possibility to build more housing or other useful space on the same plot than in the past. As far as I am concerned, this is a very good reform, and it is also possible in urban areas today in areas with unbuilt plots for residential use too, because they have often been such a formula that it has not made sense to build a building there, but this now also makes it possible to use them. Then another thing that is good in this government proposal is that it also improves the situation that if you build walls between apartments, which are more than 200 millimeters thick, then even a section that exceeds 20 cents will not exercise the right to build but can be used. This is also good for soundproofing. Then one thing, which is also here, is that there is a desire to interfere with the coverage of radio signals. It's a hard thing to do. It is also difficult for operators, but it is also difficult for builders. But above all, it affects the situation of the inhabitants. I personally hope that this issue will also be addressed in the future, as has also been pointed out in the committee. This should also be taken into account in future studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u138	Mr President! In recent years, our building regulations have evolved in the direction that houses and buildings have become very difficult places to carry radio waves. The reception of mobile communications in modern blocks of flats is quite weak these days and times and is not in some places. This proposal now tries to take a position on who is responsible and who is responsible for the costs, when the conditions are changed in buildings so that the radio waves can carry better and mobile phones can work. So it is a question of either thinning window material or putting repeaters or other technical gadgets in buildings to confirm the signal so that it will then carry it to the antenna on the mobile network. Of course, this entails costs, and I would like to underline that when the Committee on Transport and Communications dealt with the matter, we decided there that the developer or builder should bear, in the first place and exclusively, these costs, which improve the reception of mobile communications. I would like to say that the outcome of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection may lead us to a situation in which bureaucracy and the number of unnecessary meetings will increase and so on, by negotiating among the various actors what the coverage is and who will bear the costs in each case. This is a very important issue because the number of landlines has fallen substantially and it is not just about mobile phones. For example, the safety wristbands used by older people use mobile phone technology and a mobile telephone network, and if such wristbands then do not work with 100% certainty in shower rooms for new dwellings that are tiled and well insulated, for example, we are in a bad situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u139	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kopra, drew attention to an important issue. This was indeed a matter on the agenda both in the Committee on Transport and Communications and also in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and was discussed very much. It is now the case that telecommunications companies have their own obligations in relation to the quality and coverage of services, based on the information society cycle, with regard to the functioning of mobile networks — they say'reasonably also indoors'. And according to a report received by the Committee on the Environment, however, telecommunications companies will not be able to fulfil their own role if building builders choose construction technology solutions that do not pass the signals of mobile networks. This cost effect, which in the end always falls on the resident — it is a fact — cannot be imposed on anyone alone, but also on all telecommunications operators, building designers, building builders and all in cooperation to resolve these matters in good time and thus take matters forward. I think that attention should be paid to this issue. This issue is not resolved by this government proposal, but attention has also been paid to this, and, as I have already said in my own speech, I hope and believe that, in the future, more and more attention will be paid to this matter, indeed: the elderly are using all kinds of safety bracelets and other devices to an increasing extent, and it is also the starting point that people want to live in their own homes for longer and longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u140	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u141	Mr President! This proposed gradual increase in the tobacco tax is well founded and, as such, quite welcome. It will continue with the consistent increase in the tobacco tax that we have followed and implemented throughout this parliamentary term. Firstly, the increase in the tobacco tax will have a positive impact on the state budget. Tax revenue has grown very steadily over the years and is already approaching the EUR 1 billion threshold. The increase in the tobacco tax has therefore led to a considerable reduction in the central government budget deficit even at the beginning of this parliamentary term. Increases in the tobacco tax have also been found to reduce smoking, which is of course a positive factor for public health. However, in this report by the Committee on Finance, it has been said that the tax increases that have been implemented and are planned are not enough to reduce and reduce smoking rapidly. In economic terms, tobacco is a very dangerous poison and, as this report states, we also need means to reduce smoking, and why not, of course, prevention. It's good to start school. Mr President! Despite these considerations, the proposal for an increase in the tobacco tax itself is quite welcome. However, other measures to reduce smoking will continue to be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u142	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-14-ps-117.u143	Mr President! This proposal to change the grounds for calculating the VAT rate must also be supported, particularly insofar as the proposal exempts almost 400,000 low-income citizens from the VAT rate. With the proposal, the income threshold for pensioners and employees will increase to EUR 14000 and EUR 14750. In this respect, the compromise reached by the parliamentary group in early summer corresponds to the goal already set by the Finns in their electoral programme of exempting the most low-income citizens from Yle-Tax. Mr President! However, a few criticisms should still be made about the fact that the maximum amount of VAT will increase from EUR 143 to EUR 20. In future, this maximum tax will have to be paid at around EUR 21000 per year, which I believe can be regarded as a very low income threshold. The problem in this respect is, of course, very much due to the fact that the funding of Yle has not been cut in this parliamentary term as much as the number of index freezes. This seems to me to be an extraordinary situation in which the whole of society has been subjected to very strict austerity measures. The EUR 50 million cut in Yle's funding proposed by the Finns on their alternative budget would change this situation and at the same time make the operating environment of Yle and commercial media more balanced. This issue will certainly also arise in tomorrow's debate when the opposition's alternative budgets are presented here in Parliament.
