ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Ville Niinistö and 57 other representatives have put an intermediate question to the Government about the consequences of cuts in vocational education and training and the inequalities in education. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. After presentations by Mr Juha Rehula, Minister for Family and Basic Services and Mr Anu Vehviläinen, Minister for Local Government and Reform, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses in the order I am considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u3	Mr President! Over time, the feet of our welfare society in social and health services have begun to crumble: many things, many points that no longer meet today's needs. There are not enough professionals available, and equality of services from the point of view of Article 19 of the Constitution has suffered. The costs are too high a growth path, but without a clear improvement in quality. The financial model has been fragmented, overlaps have been followed, and people are bounced from one door to another. There is a government proposal, 34 laws in which the most important laws are: the law on the organisation of social welfare and health care, the county law, the county finance law and the law on enforcement — 30 other laws without any consideration. Today, nearly 200 different municipal organisations organise social welfare and health care, with 18 actors in the future who are responsible. Many things in society are changing with this package of laws, and not least because municipalities will no longer be responsible for organising the services of residents and, on the other hand, the financial responsibility will also be transferred from the municipality to the provinces. Minister Vehviläinen is presenting regional reform for his part, and I will focus on social protection. Over ten years of preparatory work has been done in this country because we have fundamental problems in our current policies and models. The main objectives are unchanged: promoting the well-being and health of the population, strengthening basic services and ensuring equal access to services. The growth angle for expenditure is too steep, and it must be possible to break the growth angle for EUR 3 billion. The starting point for reform and the key instruments have not changed anything at the various stages of preparation. We're the first in the world to make a mess. Professionals must work together and, above all, people must be guaranteed a smooth service chain, moving forward on the terms of man, not of the system. Customer orientation is also reflected in increasing people's choice of service provider and opportunities to participate and influence services. At the same time, there is a comprehensive assessment of customers' needs for services, and service providers have a big responsibility for this. Ensure flexible and timely access to services. The regions are obliged to promote the participation and influence of their residents. Similarly, regions are required to cooperate with municipalities in health promotion and preventive work. The reform will diversify the service production of social welfare and health care. The regional, private and third sector service providers will have a level playing field for providing people with the services they need. The starting point of the Finnish freedom of choice model is to strengthen the availability of basic services and thus facilitate access to treatment. Remove the pressure on services at a specific level. In this context, the legislation on the freedom of choice of the customer will be prepared separately, which will be passed on to Parliament in such a way that it will be dealt with in parallel with this set of legislation currently in the presentation. Over the next two years, Parliament will receive a number of legislative proposals relating to the implementation of this set of laws that are now creating the foundation stones in the presentation. Big responsibility lies in the regions. This set of laws gives the frameworks, and the much-speaked regional specificities can best be taken into account where people are and those peculiarities are part of everyday life. Mr President! With regard to social and regional reform, the objective is to bridge the sustainability gap of public finances by EUR 3 billion by the end of 2029. In this country, social spending will continue to grow, but we need to loosen that angle of growth. There are a lot of tools in the legal package for this thinning the angle of expenditure. The reform of organisations and administration will create the conditions for more effective and effective policies. Fragmentation is on its way to wider shoulders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u8	Mr President! Regional reform is the biggest change in the organisation of public services in the history of 100-year-old Finland. The reform will be carried out in order to organise social and health care services, in particular, on wider shoulders. In the same context, regional governance reform will be carried out. According to the Government Programme, the reform of regional government is "the primary solution is to concentrate activities on clearly defined areas of self-government in terms of tasks and functions". The multi-regional regions are composed of a fragmented and diverse public regional government. Some 400 current actors are delegating tasks to the provinces. The reform will strengthen regional democracy and direct democracy. At the same time, the reform will provide an opportunity to streamline governance, cost-effectiveness, reform of operating practices and make full use of digitalisation. The aim is to serve citizens better and to provide business and business with smooth public services. The reform enables the pooling of resources in, for example, TE and social services, thus bringing new ways of helping those who are hard to work. 18 provinces are established in mainland Finland. They would be equivalent to the current provinces, with the exception of a few municipalities. The proposed Regional Law is the General Law on the Activities, Economics, Administration and Democracy of the Provinces. It creates a framework for the implementation of self-government and the empowerment of residents. The Regional Law, like the Local Government Act, is of an enabling nature. In the provinces, the highest decision-making power is exercised by the elected council. The first regional elections will take place in the context of the 2018 presidential election, and then the elections would always be held at the same time as the municipal elections. The term of the first provincial council would begin in March 2018. Prior to this, the operation and administration of the province would be carried out by an interim administration in each province. In addition to the Board of Governors, the province would have a provincial government and an audit board. The other institutions would be up to the province to decide. The region would be managed in accordance with the regional strategy adopted by the Council. The regions must take care of the diverse influence of the inhabitants. Participation can be promoted, for example, through discussion sessions and population boards. The province must have a youth council, a council for the elderly and a council for the disabled and an institution for the influence of the linguistic minority. The law establishes a minimum framework for participation. The province can increase its participation by its own decisions to a greater extent than is provided for in the law. The decision-makers of the regions and municipalities must ensure that a genuine and good interaction between municipalities and regions is established in order to hear the voice of the citizens in the area. The tasks of the provinces are laid down in Section 6 of the Regional Law. In addition to social services, the regions are responsible for such tasks as rescue services, environmental health care, regional development and structural funds, promotion of economic activities and the use of regions, agricultural administration, vacations, regional road management, water services, construction management, cultural environment, regional identity and cultural promotion. The municipalities, joint municipal boards, ely centres, Employment and Economic Development Offices and Regional State Administrative Agencies will transfer tasks to the regions. In the provinces, there are a total of eight ministries in the administrative sector. The regional service production would be carried out by the regional business department in social services and rescue services. The business would be part of the province, but it would be functionally and economically differentiated within the province. The regional reform will improve the efficiency of operations in expert and support service tasks. In order to achieve this objective, three joint regional service centres will be set up to coordinate business premises, real estate, financial and human resources and ict matters. Service centres are joint-owned joint-stock companies of the provinces. The Regional Finance Act provides for state funding for the regions. The regions have no tax entitlement at the time the reform comes into force, so the source of their income is state funding, as well as customer and user charges. The Regional Finance Act under discussion today covers the financing of social welfare, health care and rescue services, totalling approximately EUR 17.4 billion. Ten per cent of the funding comes from the population and 89 per cent from the needs and circumstances of the province. 1% of funding comes from the promotion of well-being and health. State funding will be subject to a transitional period between 2019 and 2023. This will gradually shift from expenditure-based funding for social welfare and health care to needs-based funding. Regional funding will be adjusted in line with the carrying capacity of public finances so that by the end of 2029 a lower level of funding of around EUR 2.8 billion will be achieved. The financing of the regions is collected through central government taxation and by directing the current central government shares of municipalities in social services to the regions. In order to avoid an increase in the overall tax rate, municipal tax revenues are reduced so that the income and expenditure transferred from municipalities to regions as a whole correspond. This is done by reducing the income tax percentage of all municipalities by 12.5 percentage points for 2019. During the transition period 2019 to 2023, it will be ensured that none of the municipalities will change the balance of the economy more than plus minus EUR 100 per capita. Thus, the pressure on municipalities to raise taxes is less than one percentage point. We must be aware that the reform will shift the growth management of social spending to the regions. The reform also means large-scale property arrangements. The assets, assets and liabilities of nursing districts and other statutory joint municipal authorities are transferred to the provinces. The regions rent their own social welfare facilities for at least three years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u11	Let us move on to group speeches, which are up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u12	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health services will be carried out in order to ensure that every Finn receives equal services throughout the country in the future. The regional reform will be carried out in order to secure the vitality of the regions throughout the country by strengthening the conditions for the development of the provinces and regions. In this reform, various service tasks will also be shared more rationally between the state, municipalities and the regions that are now being set up. These changes therefore start from people, from equal services, from empowering citizens, from cutting red tape and from developing the vitality of regions throughout the country. There is a great deal of consensus on the need to reform social and health services. The fact that our country has been trying to reform the social economy with the help of various governments for more than ten years already suggests this. Continued uncertainty would be unfair for ordinary Finns and would become increasingly expensive for society. President! The solutions now exist to secure the services that citizens need for a long future. Years of uncertainty are becoming clearer. The tracks and the path are clear. Changes are made for people, not for administration. The provinces, which are based more or less on the current medical districts, are democratic. A major reform will radically simplify the system: some 400 authorities or institutions will be entrusted to 18 provinces. These changes directly affect more than 200,000 skilled workers. I would also like to stress here that without them this project will not succeed. The voices of these professionals must be heard and they must genuinely be able to participate in the practical implementation of the reform. The new provinces must be genuinely good employers. The state administration will be transferred to the control of the people in the provinces. The decision-makers of the provinces are directly elected, and the provinces receive funding from the State on an equal basis throughout the country. It is essential that the reform allows regions to organise services in a flexible way, because there are very different areas in Finland in terms of population base, age structure, population density and distances. In people’s everyday lives, social restructuring means — and it should mean — that treatment is more quickly available and that the necessary help is provided by one of the hatches. Everyone can choose a place for treatment, and people’s data are moving more smoothly from one place to the next. Modern technology enables the use of services regardless of time and place. The most demanding services are grouped together, but the main objective is to improve basic services and secure access to care as close as possible to homes in future social centres. The Centre stresses that social and health care will be based on public services provided by the provinces in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u15	Mr President! We are now dealing with perhaps the biggest and most important administrative reform in the history of Finland, when, as a result of the social and regional reform, most of the municipal tasks are transferred to the municipalities and central government is also transferred to the regions from the beginning of 2019. In the opinion of the Finns Party, this basic solution is the only right option, since individual municipal alliances cannot meet the challenge that our demographic structure is even regionally unbalanced in some places and that imbalance is not, at least, declining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u24	Mr President! The social and regional reform we have before us is one of the most important reforms in Finland, a 100-year-old. The media and this Chamber have had plenty of time to hear why the opposition felt that the reform was bad and had to be scrapped.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u33	Mr President! Let's go back in time for less than two years. At the time, the common will of all eight parliamentary parties was to have better social and health services in Finland. Of these, seven parties wanted to proceed on the basis of public service provision. Where are we today? We are faced with a three-party proposal for a regional reform in which, in addition to the wars, dozens of other activities are being transferred to the provinces, public services are being forced into compulsory companies and are largely given to the market. In addition, municipalities are completely excluded from service production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u54	Mr President! We all know the saying of a ship that is big and turns slowly. The social and regional reform we are dealing with is one of these major political ships. However, it has been built in this form on a tight schedule, although the work itself has been going on for a long time. However, the destination has been clear all along: if the reform were successful, it would strengthen equal access to services for Finns, increase well-being, reduce governance and promote entrepreneurship and save our common funds. However, the structures of this warship seem to have such severe runoff defects that it is not yet possible to imagine the blue sky on the horizon, but rather the approaching storm. The government must be praised for its determination as the captain of the project. However, the line between determination and stubbornness is vague — especially as the government seems to ignore a number of concerns expressed by experts about the outcome of the reform. For example, the Government's proposal is described in the following words: chaos, leap into the unknown, incomplete, difficult to understand and contrary to the original objectives of the reform. Shortsightedly implemented, this reform can become a costly burden for all of us for decades. The Greens have repeatedly been reminded of the original objective of the reform: we are calling for the rescue of good basic health care and for a high-quality care chain for all Finns. It is ultimately a matter of vital services, literally. Our main concern relates to the government's unfinished proposal on freedom of choice. The whole reform has now been built on wide freedom of choice and, in the form proposed, freedom of choice can seriously jeopardise all the original aims of the social services: reducing health inequalities, ensuring good integration of services, keeping costs in check, and improving access to services. Nor can companies be given significant public responsibilities. The Greens are not opposed to freedom of choice in themselves, we are opposed to its ideological forced feeding regardless of the consequences and without consulting experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u57	Mr President! Jussi Huttunen, former CEO of Kela, evaluates the social media with these words: jumping into the unknown, services in danger of chaos, none of the goals appear to be realised, in practice no power in the provinces, inequality is likely to increase, a timetable completely unrealistic. The country's toughest experts are afraid of chaos. The government closes its ears or imagines experts talking to warm air. When we talk about regional reform, we must remember the government agreement, in which the centre received the provinces and the coalition for the incorporation and privatisation of services. One doesn't come without the other. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] Public money taps are opened to private companies. We will not get fair, seamless service chains throughout the country. The existing well-functioning entities will be scrapped and we will have a mixed field of competing units. The centres of large cities and the well-being of citizens benefit. The whole of Finland will not benefit. Those who are less well-off will pay for the increased private services of those who are better off — a thinning network of services and high customer fees. The better part of the agreement, i.e. the regional reform, is also incomplete. Democracy will be reduced when decision-making powers are taken away from democratically elected individuals to companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u60	Värderade Talman! Vad är viktigt när man planerar en vårdreform? Patientperspectives, tillgängligheten — att alla har likvärdiga öjligheter till god vård — minskad bykrati, democracy insyn, samt fungerande vårdenheter som är goda arbetsplatser för en kunnig vårdpersonal. Det är åtminstone de ox sakerna vanliga pineskor vänna sig av vårdreformen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u61	Mr President! The Government can be congratulated for having managed to submit its first proposal for social welfare reform to Parliament when the term of government is mid-term. Of course, the challenges are not over, and I think it is honest to say that the timetable for reform is unlikely to be kept. To refresh my memory, the original objectives of the social welfare reform as a whole were, firstly, smooth service chains through the integration of basic health care, special care and social services, and, at the same time, shifting the focus to lighter services, secondly, equality between citizens in access to services and, thirdly, a saving of EUR 3 billion from the increase in costs by 2029.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage there must be room for a small debate. I propose that, as a procedure, the ministers, both of them, should say their first words in a few minutes, and then there will be a debatable phase, this time with one minute's speaking time. — Minister Ruhula, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u67	Mr President! I've logged 18 for two minutes. Firstly, the objectives of this change are quite unchanged: promoting well-being and health, strengthening basic services and ensuring equal access to services. It's been and has been. Second of all: We can go back more than two years in history, but today it sounds like there is no common vision of seven or eight parties, which would also be possible to go through the constitutional review, the kind of social model that should be produced in this country. It does not seem to be, because the Constitution also applies to members of the current opposition at the time of sitting at the joint table. That was the case during the last parliamentary term for us who were in the opposition. One thing that has been overlooked in the whole debate: We are making a very big change in social policy. Public funded social and health services and purely private funded health services. In this debate, too, there seems to be some confusion about the fact that public authorities will continue to have the money and responsibility for the provision of services. It's not like we're privatizing anything. It is through legislation and regulations that we are working on a model in which companies are not choosing, Mr Räsänen, but people are choosing. You're going to have to write a few briefs, so there'll be obligations. Control: There are points in this motion worthy of reproach. One point on which I have not heard much criticism so far is that there is a shortage of controls — on the contrary, there are claims that there could be less. Latest: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you too need to involve yourself in all the regional preparations that are being made, because this is going to be as good as building the common service networks and ways in the region together with the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u68	Secretary Vehviläinen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u69	Mr President! On this matter of self-government, I would like to say when it came up in several speeches: firstly, Article 121 of the Constitution states that a region which is larger than a municipality has different characteristics of self-government than that of a municipality. For the municipality they are defined in the Constitution very precisely, including tax law, the general sector and then the direct national election. I welcome the fact that we are having this debate here, but at the same time I would like to say that when we talk about self-government, regional self-government in other countries is not quite the same in every country. There are many differences, both in the Nordic countries and in other Western countries. One thing that always unites this self-government is that of a direct national election, that is to say an elected council, but otherwise it is quite different depending on whether there is a general sector in the region, whether it has a tax right, whether it has significant economic power and even controls the activities of the municipalities — even if there is regional self-government here in Europe. With regard to tax law, we have also had it in government discussions, but it is not involved at this early stage, as is well known. I myself have come to the impression that this change is so massive in many ways that it can be good that it is not here. At the same time, however, we in the government have stated that we will be looking closely and thoroughly at the possible introduction of tax law in the province. With regard to the speech by Mr Päivi Räsänen, I would like to reiterate once again that there is now more than EUR 20 billion to be decided here. Only in the case of regional funding is the section on these other tasks missing, and that will also be here this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u70	I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply to this question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u71	Mr President! As chairman of the committee, I would like to raise one point. It relates to this parliamentary working schedule. Now that this government proposal was finally brought here, it came on a later date than previously planned. Now we are dealing with a very broad package which has a very wide impact on people's sense of security. It is used in social and health care services, which are important to everyone. I think it is very important that we should be able to deal with this law properly. Now I would like to ask about this second section of the law on freedom of choice: What's its schedule? When is it coming to Parliament? Will we see to it that we have a good period of time for this whole package, so that the committees can get a good look at this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u72	Mr President! It is now good to remember that this current system of social services does not work terribly well after all. Sitra's website has a little true story about a small one Ville, who is sick and in good health care in special care. Now, however, the boy’s findings point to a new illness that needs to be started at his own health station, but there is regret about the impossibility of the situation. The child has powerful medicines in use, and doctors at the health center find it difficult to take a stand on the care of the child. It could be done there too, but only young doctors work on Fridays, and the need for child care is acute. It's a difficult situation, all professionals say. Laboratory tests are not prescribed until the patient has been seen, but there are no capable seers. You can't talk to a doctor, either, because you've cut calls. A difficult situation, a difficult situation, say professionals. Mr President! Something needs to be done and it needs to be done. If the lote is successfully taken to the finish line, even if in Ville's case, the professional will see what the situation is, will make an assessment, Ville's mom doesn't have to figure things out and the chain works the way it's supposed to. A new war of this kind is in the interests of both Ville and Ville’s mother and the nation as a whole, and that is what we must now go for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u73	Mr President! This province model, the 18 provinces model, is practically the only way to organise this social welfare and other regional government on sufficiently strong shoulders. So it's reasonable. The Social Democrats still seem to be building the entire system on the basis of the municipalities in this human society model, and it does not go through the Constitution. If you think that there are areas of sufficient size and that the municipalities have responsibility but do not have power, then it will fall into the Constitution, as it was seen two years ago in this Chamber or, in fact, in the deliberations of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee. On this basis, the regional government — may not be able to talk about self-government, but the administration — will be made clear and democracy will be involved when the elected representatives of the region do not represent the municipalities but the inhabitants of the province, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u74	Mr President! The war has been attempted by several governments, all parties in turn for almost 20 years. We are all united in the fact that this reform is absolutely necessary. I now appeal to the opposition: Come together. Let us now move on with this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u76	Mr President! It is very important that progress is made in social and health services. The public needs to see a doctor, and the elderly need to be well cared for. The SDP is ready to cooperate. We have asked the opposition to return to the parliamentary table on this issue, because we believe that there are problems here. This government model will in practice mean that there are less services at the current level of taxation, more expensive services from the citizens' point of view. This model is going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u79	Mr President! The fact that you have to do it doesn't mean you have to do bad. This government, in all its key policy choices, is doing exactly the opposite of what the experts recommend. Here it now seems that the government has chosen this kind of transition, where the centre gets 18 provinces and the coalition gets unlimited freedom of choice, one-off marketing, both of which in this form endanger the protection of the equality of our national social welfare and health care services and the safeguarding of these services in future public control. These 18 provinces are becoming too weak to carry out tasks for them, and at the same time as this coercion and freedom of choice are involved,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u82	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa will probably want to tell us what we should come with when all the opposition parties have called for this parliamentary preparation and the government has not presented or brought it to the table. It has been well pointed out here how this key problem in the government's social model is this freedom of choice and outsourcing of services, which in practice means that none of the original aims of the social services cannot be achieved. By contrast, nearly EUR 10 billion will be obtained for private companies in Finnish social welfare and health care. That is basically what the assembly is all about. In addition, this model means that this future provincial government will remain hollow. In order to talk about genuine self-government in the provinces, they should have their own tax rights, have direct elections and elected decision-makers should also have the power to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u83	Mr President! I am surprised at the speeches that have been heard, in which this issue of freedom of choice is being debated with great passion. It is now a question of the basis on which I organise the operations. I have been following this debate for years, and it has been delayed due to various municipal affairs. Now we have a good model that hopefully gets a good basis. As far as this issue of freedom of choice is concerned, it will come later, it will only be in preparation. We'll get back to that in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u84	Värderade Talman! Om man inte vill lyssna på oppositionan så brode man åtminstone lyssna på de sakkunniga
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u87	President! Sote reform succeeds or fails as a result of the smooth and effective functioning of the care chains and these processes. This success means that we need multi-professional cooperation. In my opinion, this preparatory work is now being carried out specifically in the regions. As Minister Rehula also said, it is very important that staff be involved in this preparatory work, because in order for us to achieve this integration in such a way that it is close to customers, it requires new operating models and that this whole staffing competence be involved in this work. I would like to stress that there is an awful lot of talk here about whether the doctor will be able to make it more fluent in the future, but it is not just a question of whether the whole staffing competence will be introduced, whether other health professionals will also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u88	Mr President! Of the opposition, we will certainly be prepared for genuine parliamentary preparation if we finally start to do something like that. There is a risk in this proposal that all the key objectives set for the whole of social reform will be watered down, and without any idea of what the freedom of choice model is being taken forward, this whole proposal will be very difficult to deal with. Firstly, equal services will not be achieved because we do not have a national service promise. This freedom of choice, which has been rotated, is likely to lead to the fragmentation of the integration of services, and people will fall between care chains, and there will be no improvement in integration. Thirdly, savings, which have been sought: the creation of a heavy administrative structure, the provinces. It is difficult to see that any of these original objectives, which have been set for social reform, are being achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u89	Mr President! In this debate, it has not been quite clear which of the opposition wants: in addition to this 1200 pages of freedom of choice, which the Minister has said is coming? If we were to start here anyway. It seems to me that we in the committees have a great deal of work to do with this paper as well. Mr President! The second point raised in this excellent speech by Mr Laitinen-Pesola is that this reform concerns more than 200,000 medical and social professionals and how we can involve them is also responsible in this Chamber. If everyone is shot down for over a decade, how do you imagine that the staff are going to create a new kind of organisation where the services are available to everyone?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u90	Mr President! Minister Rehula, when last season we were allowed to work together in the parliamentary work of the eight parties, I thought that our common view was that we need more smooth service chains so that no one would fall off. Now I have to ask when I look at this motion where the goal of the comprehensive approach that guided our entire work last season has disappeared. It seems that the doors of the citizens are only going to increase and democracy is going to run away from forced companies. The question is whether these are no longer the objectives set for this reform. Experts are concerned, among other things, that the effectiveness and safety of treatment cannot actually be achieved because no indicators have yet been drawn up. Production organisations will be very complex and inequalities will increase. There's got to be answers to these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u91	Mr President! The safety of treatment — yes, we can ask for it at the moment. We do not have a reduction in patient damage in Finland, on the contrary they remain at the same level in the whole. For that reason too, skilled staff, which has already been mentioned here, play an extremely important role. We need skilled staff and there will also be fierce competition in the future. On the other hand, the employment prospects in the care sector are good, and this social welfare reform will create jobs in the taste of the rest of the world for women. We have 80% of the employees in the municipal sector, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u92	Mr President! Sick and weak people don't have the stomach to choose. You really need to get to treatment when you need it. For example, those who need shoulder surgery need to get out of the health centre for surgery and from there for rehabilitation. But now, in your model, these service paths are fragmented and services are threatening to remain a market for multinationals. I would also like to highlight the fact that the municipalities are left with health promotion, such as culture and physical activity. But we have to take into account the fact that municipal tax rates are halved and yet all the huge debts that the municipalities have to bear are due to the production of infrastructure and structures for social services. How on earth will the municipalities cope with this obligation to take good care of health services and the promotion of well-being?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u93	Mr President! In this whole social reform, I am most concerned about the line of keeping the budget at the cost of cutting services. And when experts are fairly unanimous that the budget is at least ambitious, possibly even unrealistic, there is a very high risk that we will receive even worse health services in the future than we have at present. The county can't decide. Even if everyone in the province agrees that we would rather pay a little more taxes than give up dental care like the one we have today, the province cannot decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u94	Mr President! For a while now, there's been a lot of devils, boogeymans and trolls thrown on the walls. [ Hustles from the left] I would like to say that I believe that the main objective of this reform is that we will strengthen basic services, the first door opening on the health or social services front, and that is the most important part. We are going to adopt an internationally unique approach in which people are at the heart of both the social and health services and the establishment of a basic and special level. This is at the heart of everything. First of all, I would like to ask the Greens, when I am quite unclear about this situation: are you no longer in favour of regional social and health services, which I understand you have sometimes done? That's what we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u95	Mr President! Yes, we need better services, above all more functional care chains, and this will result in savings. But now, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, do you listen to the criticisms of the experts? The experts have stated to a very large extent that this package which you are now bringing here will not save costs, quite the contrary. This is a big jump to the unknown. With the original aim of improving the quality of social and health services, easier access to doctors, better access and fewer health inequalities, for example, the Legislative Review Council has stated that we do not know what will happen to them in this government proposal. This is a big jump to the unknown. There are great promises in the air, but here I would listen to experts who have warned that all of your original objectives, which are common objectives, are turning upside down in your presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u96	Mr President! Congressman Saarikko asked if the Greens were in favour of this regional model. As such, but this model presented by the government is a long way from what the experts support. First of all, experts have been in favour of a much smaller number of provinces than the government is now proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u97	Mr President! First of all, on the part of the opposition, it has come to the conclusion that there will be a very heavy administrative structure, that is, provinces. It was Minister Ruhula who said that 200 social welfare and health care organisations would be replaced by 18. I don't know how much heavier it gets. I don't know what the point of view is. Secondly, as a question, what role is there in the provinces? It happens that the province has a role to play, that it is the transit through which the money goes, that it has a supervisory role, that it is able to carry out analyses, that it is able to evaluate in a certain way and that it determines the level of compliance with the criteria. It now seems that the opposition has a clear desire to be on the part of the province first as a representative but then as a politician on the producer side. It makes no sense that money is being directed at itself — at least not so much efficiency in my opinion, but what do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u98	Mr President! I have often wondered why these proposals are not even being evaluated with a view to the future operating conditions of private companies, especially the export industry. How does the government expect us to finance services in the future if the impact on the operating conditions and the operating environment is not of interest? Much has also been said about the objectives of patient safety and reducing health inequalities. However, there is now a desire to weaken the central hospital on the leading coast of Ostrobothnia, particularly in terms of patient safety in many surveys. Minister, whose patient safety in this country is improved by weakening the best central hospital in terms of patient safety? As far as health inequalities are concerned, should the aim not be to improve the health of all Finns, or is the government also satisfied that the differences are narrowing as a result of the weakening of services in some groups?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u99	Mr President! The sitting government has taken the necessary decision that previous governments were unable to take. [Heckling] For many small-scale entrepreneurs in the social welfare and health sector, the main concern is how their livelihood will be after the wars have been completed. The concern is that the bigger players are taking over the market. I would also like to ask the Minister how the opportunities for small domestic health operators to compete on an equal footing with large players will be ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u100	Mr President! The laws currently under discussion cannot be separated from the legislation on freedom of choice, since the entire production and management structure is built on its terms. Mr President! We need a social welfare reform, and the regional base is a natural and good basis for it. Unfortunately, however, in the hands of the government, these original reform objectives have been forgotten and privatisation and forced-to-ship have become an end in itself. However, the fundamental question for the Constitution is whether the regions will have real autonomy when they do not have their own funding and the government will determine which governance model and service structure will enable them to carry out their social tasks. At present, municipalities are allowed to decide how much they buy from the private sector and how the services are organised, but they are forced to organise a model of producers, forced-in companies and a certain amount of privatisation. I would like to ask: where is the real self-government now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u101	Mr President! The key objective of the reform of social welfare and health care is strong integration. At the moment, I am challenging the provinces to make this strong integration among themselves, to mobilise the professionals. This same doctrine has been tried for 10 to 20 years, and at the moment we have a clear rear end in order to achieve it. In the future, cooperation between municipalities and regions will be increasingly needed to promote health and promote self-care, especially in the knowledge of the citizen to implement his or her own care, especially in chronic diseases. International research results also advocate the role of strong service chain operators in multi-producer models in such a way that even in Finland, when switching to a multi-producer model, it is necessary to agree how the services of different service providers are compatible with the construction of the citizen's service needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u102	Mr President! There has been so much criticism of the government that I want to start off positively. There are two points on which we can agree with the government: the first concerns the government's assessment that such a reform has not taken place anywhere else in the world. You can sign it — then it is different how wise it is. The second thing is that this is the biggest administrative reform in the history of Finland. That too is undoubtedly a fact — the difference is whether it is worth putting people's health and social care on completely new trees at the same time and re-establishing the administration that is doing this. I don't think that's very wise. The government doesn't seem to be listening to the experts right now. I wonder why, because this expert criticism has been quite crushing especially during the spring. I come to the conclusion that the government has made such tough political compromises that it will no longer be able to correct this proposal because of political prestige. I would like to comfort all those who took part in the debate by saying that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u103	Mr President! The opposition's speeches are so full of deliberate and unintentional misunderstanding and horror and intimidation that this Chamber is now so full of bogeymen that it is difficult for parliamentarians to fit in here. There's a condemned subscriber-producer model here. Who's going to do that now? Neither the provinces nor the municipalities have any space — the customers choose. Mr Paatero, you told us that people want to choose a public service provider. Well, what's the problem? People have a choice. What's the problem? Then they're going to make a terrible problem of this corporateization, that they're going to be on the same page as the public and the private. Well, what does it matter to the patient, what is the legal form behind its production? What difference does it make if it's a company or is it something else? It is important for the patient to receive good, necessary services. Well, then I'll ask you from the left, including the greens: if this is such a lousy model, why haven't the demos and the greens in Sweden canceled the model that was there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u104	Mr. Speaker! It is already a matter of public opinion that Sweden is constantly considering how to reverse the model which has proved to be costly and unequal in such a way that people who are close to the services and who care about their own health become more services and those where they are less well off. This is not something they want to continue in Sweden, and that is why they are trying to reverse it. [True : Years have passed! ] I had a few questions for the ministers there: Why is it that people don't want to keep the municipalities involved? Why are municipalities not allowed to produce services? Why is the province not allowed to make decisions on which services are to be provided jointly with municipalities or which province produces or which municipality produces? This confuses me all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u105	Mr President! Mr Raassina said in the group speech that it was necessary to recall the objectives of the reform. Professor Jussi Huttunen said that four key objectives have been to strengthen basic health care and social services, to develop cooperation between basic services and specialised care, to reduce inequalities and to curb costs. According to Huttunen, none of these objectives appear to be fulfilled in the government proposal. What can be done to bring these objectives back to mind if they are not to be carried out in a government proposal? In this regard, it is bound to occur when we talk about the assembly and about the objectives of the coalition, that there must have been more to it than these four key objectives mentioned by Jussi Huttunen, namely the exposure of human health and social services to business and business finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u106	Mr President! One of the key objectives of this reform is integration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u107	I would like to give a reply to Mr Östman, and then Minister Rehula — it would appear — will make a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u108	Mr President! As long as Sweden is still considering and meeting if they would cancel its entire reform, and as long as Finland is still free to ask without being accused of painting bogeymen, I thought I would ask, because there are some problems in this proposal. How do you think freedom of choice works in small towns? Can you list a private operator opening a health centre in the area of 3,000 inhabitants? Organizing the care of the elderly... - Excuse me, Speaker, may I speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u109	Minister Ruhula, when about 30 replies were made, perhaps three minutes ago could be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u110	Mr President! On 5 March 2015, a direct quote: "that legislative proposals can only be dealt with in the order of the ordinary law if the constitutional observations made in this matter by the committee on the democratic nature of the proposed administrative model and on the financial responsibility of the municipalities and on the whole of the regulation which they constitute are duly taken into account." Article 121 of the Constitution, municipal self-government. Here is one answer to why we have not been building a municipal model. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this opinion, which was given twice by the way at its nuclear sites in those weeks when the government's proposal was discussed, gave three options for progress. Here is also one answer to what is this number of provinces. This is quite unspeakable and, in these respects, it is one of the pillars and support for this preparation that has been made. Secondly, one wish for representatives: 1002 pages are a lot of text, but 38 pages of summary have been produced. It would make the debate at least a little easier today if there were so much hobby that at least those representatives in their own committees who are dealing with this matter would read the 38 strips. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u111	Minister Vehviläinen will continue in a moment, if you don't mind. Let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u112	Mr President! The entire government's social welfare proposal is based on market economy, forced-to-companies and freedom of choice. However, this package cannot be achieved without a common and functional ict system. Various experts have said that this whole government will not succeed, the ict system will not technically succeed within the timeframe set by the government. Now, Minister Rehula, I would like to ask you: is the government prepared to do so if these technical ict systems do not work? How does this government take responsibility for the reform of social and health care? The second question is whether the government has prepared itself in the spring debate for the fact that this ict system will require funding of around EUR 1.5 billion or EUR 2 billion over the coming year. Is it prepared? And if, as a result, the ict system does not work, will there be social and regional reform for us in the future, or will this fail because of the ict system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u113	Mr President! We have come to this situation, where we are, because the model of the big city has run off to the rocks as the minister has just read. This regional model, which now seeks to solve these social and other administrative problems, is at hand, and it makes sense, at the same time, to simplify the regional administration while 400 authorities or institutions are being reduced, to go on the shoulders of 18 regions. This is quite a change, a positive change, an event. At least this time I only have three punks to say to the future. The first is that when experts referred to say heavy words from the side to this freedom of choice, it is worth listening to what is said there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u114	Värderade Talman! Obviously, the province is a fine word enough for it is enough, because it is not now to create self-government areas but to create a handful of crippled ducks, a province without power under the strict control of the state. A truly complex financing model is being created in which 12.47 tax collectors are being transferred from the municipality to another location. This means that those municipalities that have done well will be punished, those who have invested in proactive work will be punished. The deficit will then be reimbursed up to EUR 100 per person. So there's still plenty left to save. A municipality such as Kirkkonummi receives an automatic deficit of 4 million, which needs to be dealt with by what remains, namely school, kindergarten and snow creation. So now we're giving birth to logical monsters. For example, Kauniainen would have to survive with more than four tax companies, which means that it becomes a need for state support — it makes no sense. Should this funding not now be put in place once and for all so that a democratic, clear, transparent and fair financing model can be found, Minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u115	Mr President! It has now been said in a number of speeches that freedom of choice legislation will not be discussed until later, but it also has to do with the way this future provincial government will be. As I pointed out earlier, the problem here is that the regional councillors elected today will have no real decision-making power with regard to social and health care services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u120	Mr President! The Greens commit themselves to implementing the reform when the Government commits itself to implementing the original objectives of the reform and its own Government Programme. Care chains need to be unsealed, health and well-being differences need to be narrowed, cost developments need to be slowed down. As solutions are also required, I propose four measures to achieve these objectives: the social and regional laws in a longer transitional period, the removal of freedom of choice into a separate set of laws, the right to taxation for the regions, the involvement of the whole Parliament in this preparation. This is how this reform can be put on hold.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u121	Mr President! The opposition had very good critical views here, which was raised. For example, this freedom of choice, which we only have in the consultation process, will then come here in due course and will be examined. Here's 1200 pages now. [Left: 1002!] But at least I have now come to the impression from this debate that not all opposition parties are satisfied even with this basic solution, this regional model, the 18 model, which is in line with the Constitution, which is very close to what the Constitutional Committee gave in the previous period as a stepping stone. And, in fact, at the time, the Constitutional Committee did not even require elections for these, but they are here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u122	Mr President! The Coalition Party does not side with public or private service production in any way, because we want to be neutral and we want its choice to be made by the customer. We are a little surprised by this, that this freedom of choice is seen as this kind of bogeyman, while always and everywhere in the care of access speed is one of the greatest guarantees of quality. And now that this freedom of choice is, of course, combined with this whole entity, I can at least see for myself that if a person goes somewhere and gets quick service and comes back there, it is obviously a good sign that the service has worked. But if we go to protect and side with either one of them, whether private or public, then our actions and speeches are such that freedom of choice is not a good thing, because if the customer gets to choose for himself, then the customer can choose wrong. In my opinion, at all times those companies that are fast will be able to cope, and this will also apply to health care in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u123	Mr President! We must now recall a few basic points in this debate. Finland must have been in a state of uncertainty for ten years, both municipal employees and customers of social welfare and health care services. Last season, an attempt was made to implement a blue-red grandiose dream, and it came across these constitutional problems. [Heckling] The county base, 18 provinces, is a natural basis for carrying out various things: social and health services, rescue measures, planning of the provinces, steering the community structure, road maintenance and so on and so on. This division is broadly in line with the current medical districts and regional federations. Of course, this is a compromise — we in the government have all met and found such a model — but this is something that can take things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u125	Mr President! After all, we in this House are now going to this kind of sample lesson — in fact, double that — on how to serve a country from this opposition. What is missing is that, after almost all the experts have knocked this out — or strongly criticised it, I do not want to use the overwords, strongly criticised many of the points in the government's proposal,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u128	Mr President! I hope, of course, that Mr Kurvise and I will both be in this Chamber in a decade's time, and in fact I would like to ask you, Mr Kurvinen, whether you sincerely believe that these 18 provinces, all the provinces you have requested, will be genuinely viable in such a way that they will still be able to fulfil these obligations on this basis in the future. My second concern relates precisely to the fact that, for the self-government of the provinces, taxation would be extremely important. I understand the difficulty of organising three-tier taxation, and Mr Vehviläinen has already made it very clear that we hope that the question of taxation law in the provinces will be able to come back to us later. I believe that at least the green ones have strong support for it. Finally, I would like to highlight what has already been raised in a few other speeches, namely these service centres and information systems. We saw on a much smaller scale what a mess it could be when the income support was transferred to Kela. Now I wish we had some guarantees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u129	Mr President! Why can't the 18 provinces survive? Small countries are doing well, why could small provinces not do so? It is also a question of what kind of cooperation these provinces have with neighbouring regions, that is, the kind of cooperation they can have. But it was very good that the Minister also reminded us of this starting point, namely that the framework for this reform was created during the last parliamentary term with reports from the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That is the basis for this overall move forward. I understand that the objectives of the reform of social security are very much the same as in the last period, but the difference now is that we are actually moving forward. I also think it is good to note that the preparatory work in the provinces is taking place at a very fast and good pace. The staff are very much involved in this preparation in many regions. The preparatory work is very much parliamentary. It seems to me that we are simply trying to slow down such a reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u130	Mr President! We have had a long debate on governance, and that is certainly necessary. I personally hope that we will also go further in practical terms on these issues of social and regional reform. I believe that the debate on the confrontation between private and public actors is an old-fashioned one. I personally believe that we need both sides to be involved in producing. In this respect, the multi-producer model is the present and the future, but I am concerned if there are large health companies involved that do not pay their taxes to Finland, whether the ministers can support the fact that the reform would require those companies with whom we cooperate to make their tax information public in order to...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u133	Mr President! This is a truly historic day, apart from the amount of this anointing, especially the progress we are already making in this war. Indeed, almost 20 years of trying to achieve this. Now that we are talking about what is happening in Sweden, for example, it is worth updating the information. This is where Mr Sarkomaa has been getting to know the situation last week and has assured me that there really is not going to be a cancellation, but the other way around. But now that we are talking about the province and about bigger shoulders, it is important to remember that we also have strong self-government municipalities, and it is good to remember that the municipal reform is not over, but that we must ensure that the municipalities continue to be healthy and well-functioning. The second thing I would like to ask you about is these regional elections. After all, these are a new more democratic way of electing representatives to the provinces, but we still have one province, Uusimaa, which combines two parliamentary districts, 26 municipalities and the threshold for voting has been estimated to rise to 6000 in the regional elections when it is around 3000 in the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u134	Mr President! The key element of this model is, of course, to rely on the expertise of people, decision-makers and also on local knowledge in every region. After all, this preparatory work in the regions has already been carried out in a very turbulent way, and this will be as good as it is in the regions. I would certainly not belittle what has been done in those regions — and, therefore, is it not also the parliamentaryism that is being done where it is being done? This is also based on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last term. I think it is important to remember that, in Finland, our governance model is very centralised if we compare Europeans as well, and I wonder why we want to stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u135	Mr President! It is worth recalling now how the government's social welfare model was created. During the dark hours of the night, three tired men, Juha Sipilä, Timo Soini and the Chairman of the Coalition Party, made a political agreement on the war at the Government Castle, and this agreement does involve many problems. Why am I saying this? Because I've been listening to some of the best experts in the country: "The fire can't play, and the house can burn just once. You have to have the courage to cancel and take time out." Professor Anneli Anttonen. "It is also likely that large multinational healthcompanies will come to Finland Don't do it if you don't know what you're doing." Aila-Leena Matties, Professor of Social Work. "There are many important details that are still The reform in its present form means a leap into the unknown." Professor Jussi Huttunen. Ladies and gentlemen of the board, "You can only burn the house once." "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u136	Mr President! You're talking about a completely different set of laws than we're dealing with right now. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u139	Mr President! As the previous speaker said, there are indeed some shortcomings, as this expert you raised said. This reform...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u142	Well, it's been 15 seconds. — Mr Sarkomaa, reply. — Four more replies, and then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u143	Mr President! At the heart of this social welfare reform is man, the fact that every Finn can receive social services on an equal basis, regardless of where he lives in Finland. That is what this bill has been made for, and I really hope you will join us. Let's make this bill the best possible. I see you haven't read this bill. I see that the opposition does not have such a uniform model of social security. Twenty years has been done. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u144	Mr President! Yes, during the last period we had almost a uniform or, in fact, a uniform model which then came across these constitutional problems that could have been remedied at the beginning of this regime, and we would have been well advanced in this reform. But this government wanted to start this social welfare reform entirely on a new basis, and the Coalition Party wanted the wide-ranging freedom of choice that you had already presented in the last period, but no other parliamentary party in the last period was in favour of it. Now you have a wide range of choice in this package, and you are driving this here like a snake into a gun. I am also surprised that many times in this Chamber it has been claimed that the opposition is scaring, painting devils on the walls and so on. I believe that democracy includes criticism, and that is also the role of the opposition. Experts are the same criticism
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u145	Reply, Representative Saarikko, then Lindtman, Henriksson, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u146	Mr President! In the course of this debate, I have remained to think about the fact that the opposition pictures the government driving this bullheadedly, regardless of the experts. I myself have a rather strong confidence in the experts, the representatives of the working group and the long-term officials who have been responsible for drawing up a great many details on this thousand pages. We have before us a committee process in which all these experts are consulted and this law is being thoroughly gutted in detail, including the latter package of freedom of choice that comes after us. I have also been thinking about the fact that someone was referring here to the fact that this has become a matter of authority for the government. I sincerely believe that this is a matter of authority for the entire Finnish political system. This reform has been under way, as has been said many times, for nearly twenty years. Finns may no longer be able to wait for this soup and the state of uncertainty to weaken investment, development and also the availability of labour in certain areas when it is not known what is happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u147	Mr President! The government here has accused the opposition of harsh criticism. If you go through these expert assessments, then I have to say that this criticism by the opposition here is still quite mild compared to them. This is still quite mild compared to them. It has been said here that we trust these decision-makers in the regions — such as Mrs Katainen — but when you do not, ladies and gentlemen, listen to us in the opposition and when you clearly do not loiter in your ear to the experts, please listen, for example, to Mrs Hosko, who said that the real decision-making power will be transferred from the municipalities to the State. This will lead to the concentration of services sooner or later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u148	In the meantime, Mr Hoskonen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u149	Mr President! I have indeed been concerned about what will happen to small municipalities. [Left: Should!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u150	One last comment to the representatives of Mr Henriksson and Mr Räsänen, and then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u151	Mr President! Of course it is the case that questions should be asked in this Chamber. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u152	Mr President! Here, Mr Anttila very well reminded us that the main objective of this whole social reform was the integration of services, which would enable the focus to be shifted to early and preventive services. But it is precisely this objective that is becoming the most blurry in this social reform. If we look at Forssa or other similar areas, we will move to a system where nurses and doctors will be in separate social insurance companies, dental treatment in other companies, and the majority of social workers will be there again in the regional business institutions, some of the basic doctors will go through these vouchers, the home care of the elderly will go from the customer vouchers, the current ward will no longer be part of that social welfare company, but will then be in the care of the county business department. I hope that Mr Ruhula will now assure us of the way in which this system:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u153	Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes, if necessary, a little over.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u154	Mr President! First of all, I too will go back to the end of the last parliamentary term when I was a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and I worked hard to achieve this social reform. We know that this was not a success and there were two reasons for this in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: the lack of democracy and the postponement of financial responsibility to the municipalities. And after that, we were in a new situation. Now that I look at this — when this has been done on a provincial basis, on the basis of 18, which is roughly the same as we have medical districts and we have provinces — I have been aware of this over the last few months, in fact for a long time that this 18 has not been criticised here as the number of regions. As regards the role of the municipalities, I would like to say to Mr Karimäki: Firstly, for the first time in this system of central government transfers, basic services are now involved in this promotion of health and well-being. A small start, and that is the overall direction to be taken. Well, then to this municipal economy: First of all, it is good to remember that now that this social security is being transferred to the provinces, the risk of social security costs is also being removed from the municipalities, which is an extremely important issue. On top of that, I would also like to say that, even after this transitional period, the municipalities' survival — a transitional period of five years, in fact, plus minus EUR 100 per capita — is also very much dependent on the condition in which the municipality's finances are now in before this reform, but I believe that it is serious and justified to find out how they can also be helped in relation to these empty buildings. As far as Åland is concerned — already mentioned in a group statement there — this reform must be carried out in such a way that it is cost-neutral for Åland. I know that representatives who are well-informed here in Åland know that it is intended that this regional reduction will be reformed, that it will be able to secure this. Ict systems. It is quite clear that they cost money, and this timetable is also tight. We will certainly have to address in the spending limits debate at the end of April how this financing and possibly capitalisation of the ict systems will be done. Mr Sarkkinen also pointed out this real self-government. I welcome the debate here, but, as I have already said, there is no such final truth as to what elements self-government contains, so I say that we are going on a realistic, moderate path towards more real self-government. It was pointed out that there is no decision-making power in the provinces when it comes to war. I do not agree with that: in the context of their own universal funding, the regional councils have the opportunity to respond to the way in which social welfare is organised in the region, and the regional strategy also includes a service strategy, that is to say, the kind of network in the region as a whole. As far as the regional elections are concerned, Mr Mäkelä was briefed in the preparatory work and now that representatives of the provinces are elected, they should represent the whole province. If there were internal constituencies in the province, those internal constituencies would easily become representatives of their particular constituencies in that province, and this reform seeks to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u155	And Minister Rehula, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u156	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma has already gone into another state in a hurry, but he has told us here how he will be right in two years' time. It is quite clear that, in this solution, as in any other possible solution that would be in the Parliament's deliberations on this issue, there will be points where criticism is correct and changes will have to be made. So it was during the last parliamentary term,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u159	Mr President! Freedom of choice cannot be separated from this debate, Mr Heikkinen. We need to talk about these things at the same time. These Swedish experiences have also been mentioned in several speeches, and indeed we could learn from a neighbour, because there, for example, the application of freedom of choice has led to more visits to doctors for those with a small need for medical treatment. In other words, this competition has encouraged patients to be easily cared for, and medical treatment has become more unequal in many ways, i.e. inequality has increased, and especially the treatment of those with complex and demanding care needs. This is what I fear will happen to us, and this is what experts are afraid of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u160	Mr President! Three things. Firstly, the pooling of special care, social services and primary health care and the transfer of decision-making powers to the province will enable the resources to be allocated to where they are most needed in the province — that is to say, to the region. Secondly, this parliamentary debate is now starting in many different committees. More than half of us are starting to deal with this proposal in a democratic manner. However, most important of all: all those who want to defend public health must now take the oath to believe in those workers who will continue to produce these services. In other words, let us support the preparatory work in the province and, in particular, support the staff currently employed in the public sector. Create faith in them and maintain the possibility that there will continue to be strong public health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u161	Mr President! I have been here in Parliament for a very long time, and very rarely have I seen such a strange situation as the fact that there have been a lot of doubts, fears and fears about this reform unequivocally by experts. The Sote officials have suspected the cost of getting out of hand. The professors of economics have warned that experimental laboratories should not be made, and now this latest black criticism really came from the professor under the title "The chaotic present state brings the professors to the screams of pain". They say the house can only be burned once. Mr President, since that house is so important, it will not be burned now, it will not be burned in the Finnish centenary year, and hopefully no other year will we burn this house down. There is talk of this threatening to bring social and health services into chaos, and what is worst, services are deteriorating and costs are increasing
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u164	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister whether it has been examined how much it will cost to continue with the current course, where there are cases where queues for treatment are long enough for premature death and then disability to cost both ourselves and society further. Would this opportunity for freedom of choice lead to an improvement in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u165	Mr President! Mr Viitanen was on the wrong lines. There has been little criticism of this package. At the moment, no one is really judging. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u166	Mr President! The centre could well admit that 18 provinces are only a political and temporary solution that will not last even a decade. The Centre could also reasonably admit that it is now itself implementing the municipal reform it is opposed to. When small municipalities lose the conditions for their activities, only the province, the actual grandeur, will remain. This development is accelerated by the fact that the decision-making powers of the provinces are in practice concentrated on the central cities of the provinces. The centre could well admit that when money and control come from the state and the service providers are forced to join, democracy can be farewelld. The Centre could well admit that freedom of choice leads to the same liberalisation of trading hours: small trades disappear, and services are concentrated in growth centres. The Centre could also fairly admit that the policy objective of 18 provinces was a poor exchange for the focus of services,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u167	Mr President! It was a truly historic reform that Finland moved to the European provincial administration, and this is where we should thank the whole government. A real leap was made in which the province's own decision-making powers were strengthened and also the possibility to influence this development. To previous speakers, it was a problem for small municipalities that the costs of social services varied every year and that, for example, the costs of special care were completely unpredictable. Now we have the shoulders at the provincial level, which makes it possible to better compensate for these fluctuations, and it is an excellent thing that the government was able to do this. I understand that the opposition is annoyed when you have been wringing the matter over several parliamentary years and the result has been zero. Now you are still fogging the public that this cost savings, even cost growth, are not needed. All you're talking about is saving up. But if it does not succeed, then the problems of our public finances will increase and we will have to take on more debt. But that has been the main message of the opposition in every debate: more debt, higher taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u168	Mr President! Here, representatives of Sarkomaa and Mäkelä called for a review of what is happening in Sweden. Well, yes, we've been looking at Sweden. A massive privatisation of treatment by bourgeois parties took place in the neighbouring country, and in late last year a study by Svenska Dagbladet was published on these social costs by the Stockholm landmen, and in the liberalised sectors costs have risen by as much as 50-100%, compared to 4.1% in the areas of public health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u169	Mr President! Finland makes a Finnish model of freedom of choice, we do not take the Swedish model directly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u170	Mr President! Indeed, today we are discussing one of the biggest and most important reforms in the history of Finland. We are, whether we like it or not, in this same boat, regardless of our party positions. An open and constructive and forward-looking debate would now be an important message for both staff and municipal decision-makers, as well as for Finnish citizens, of whom quite a few this whole regional and social reform is still a question mark. Mr President! Indeed, the reform has been severely criticised by many experts. None of the original objectives appear to be realised and inequalities are feared to increase further. Is this really not a pretty serious situation? We, on the left, want the regions to have real decision-making power and tax law. We want a sustainable reform that meets the needs of a small person. Too bad the government doesn't seem to have the same will. I ask you, Minister: are you prepared to bring the reform to the end in parliamentary cooperation and withdraw the obligation to impose and privatise public services that are being dismantled by democracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u171	Mr President! During the last term, I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs dealing with the then social reform, which, as the ministers have said well here, fell mainly due to a lack of democracy. Now we have an historic regional and social reform at hand, and I have been a little surprised when it is said here that the centre got the provinces. In my opinion, Finnish people got democratic provinces and a democratic system — or are now getting one. But even more important than these provinces is that this system provides important social and health services for Finnish people. I think there is much to be said about what is in these order of reference: The need for reform to ensure equal services. After all, when there is a doubt as to whether smaller provinces will be able to secure these services, we have practical examples such as Kainuu, North Karelia, South Karelia, which have already carried out this model far.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u172	Mr President! Now I'm brave. It is forbidden to talk about freedom of choice here, but when I see it as such an essential part of this society, I am talking about it. Sweden has also been compared with Sweden. As stated here, a week ago the committee was in Sweden looking at the freedom of choice model and, as you might imagine, Stockholm has oversupply of service providers, while in certain sparsely populated areas the only option is the public health centre. Above all, the system favors relatively healthy people. Many sick people get lost and tired in a fragmented system and do not have the resources to exercise freedom of choice. The integration of care has deteriorated significantly, for example by involving workers from different groups in care for the elderly. There has also been a predictable increase in bureaucracy and costs. My question is this: has the government familiarised itself with this Swedish model and its problems, and how has the threat been rejected that they will not happen here too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u173	Mr President! I must say that the difference between the social and health policies implemented during the last term of government and during this term of government is particularly that this government decided that such a major reform in Finland would not have to be carried out together. So it seems to me to be a bit of a big deal when, even here in the year of celebration, we declare that all things, big reforms, are being carried forward together. It was a choice of values. On the other hand, it is unfortunate to note that there is now a fear that the sick will not be treated. I think that someone in this Chamber should also make a sound about what the reform of social welfare and health care should be about: improving services. It has already become public that 3 billion services are being cut. We wanted to give a service promise to the Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u174	Mr President! It is important that we get moving here in Parliament in the process of both social and regional reform. As Mr Kalli said, more than half of the MPs in the committees are dealing with this. In fact, this package was already on the agenda in the tax section today and it will begin in a week's time. Of course, there are challenges. I think it is important for this regional and social reform to bear in mind that the province is not only a regional centre, it is also the whole province, that is, these regions and regions, which are perhaps in the most challenging position here. It is important that these services are also connected to the entire territory of the province. This is, of course, a matter for the province itself, but here too, when the impact assessments are carried out, they can be fed. It's important. Then comes these ultimate curses on the borders of the provinces. It may be that the borders of two provinces leave room for the lack of equality of services for these people. But, as I said, it is important that we get moving, and we are now working here in Parliament on our own work, on this package,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u175	Värderade Talman! I was very surprised by the government's proposal on parts of the Åland Islands. It has been said that the reform is neutral for Åland, but the solutions that are now being proposed, which have not even been discussed in advance with Åland, are far from neutral: for example, it is proposed to change the compensation criterion, i.e. the lump sum. It cannot even be changed without the consent of Åland's provincial days. Has the Ministry of Finance not checked the records in advance from the Ministry of Justice and what is stated in the Autonomy Act? Yesterday, officials from the Ministry of Finance also informed me that the proposed amount had been miscalculated. The government is unilaterally proposing a fair reduction in the lump sum. I'm both surprised and confused.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u176	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Harakka, Mr Andersson, Mr Korhonen, Mr Tanus and then to the ministers, and will then assess whether there is a need and need to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u177	Mr President! This government proposal is summed up in three things: the social welfare model reduces services, less tax money is left in Finland, and it reduces local decision-making power. What do you mean, cut down on services? Nordic Healthcare Group has calculated that nearly one billion euros per year will be cut from services for the elderly, 10 billion per 10 years. And since the provinces do not have their own income, the Ministry of Finance decides which treatment can or cannot afford. Local decision-making powers are weakening, while people should be allowed to make their own decisions. And how do the common funds end up in private hands? In Sweden, the turnover of social enterprises was around EUR 150 million, of which 1% was paid for tax. The profits of large companies are running away from the country. This in response to questions from the Finns: aggressive tax planning is entirely possible. A lot of people have asked me what this "sites" really is short for. Well, "stitch" is short for "stitch" and "trap." The county model is the mess, and privatisation is the trick. A genuine, human social and health reform is needed to replace the mess and the trick.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u178	Mr President! Indeed, Finland is not Sweden and there are significant differences in health systems between these countries. In Sweden, occupational health care is largely organised within a public system — not like here in Finland, where these big companies, which also provide occupational health care services, are very likely also to attract the same customers through this system of freedom of choice. In Sweden, social services are not covered by the system of freedom of choice, and in Sweden, when it was introduced, the starting point was to increase resources for the health system. You're doing the opposite. You have a savings target of EUR 3 billion, which you have linked to this reform. Eight out of ten Swedes are in favour of limiting the profits of large companies. The majority of the voters of Swedish bourgeois parties are in favour of limiting the profits of large companies. Is the government bringing such legislation to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u181	Mr President! Of course, it is good that there should also be good alternatives in addition to criticism. But now, Mr President, on the basis of what Mr Kiuru said in his old recollection, when he said that everything was different last season. In the last term, the government promoted the model of the 70 to 100 empires, the war at the bottom of them. You did not listen to the opposition, you did not listen to the municipalities, you did not listen to anyone. I think the situation is quite different at the moment, but it is good to point out here that, for example, the Prime Minister has clearly stated that it is now necessary to consult experts. This has been done with regard to this package of regional laws which is under discussion today, and so, of course, with regard to the freedom of choice legislation which will come to this Chamber later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u182	Mr President! In my opinion, this was a good speech, as Mrs Korhonen has just said, because it shows that, in practice, this government intends to act without listening to the experts, without listening to the views of the other parties and only acts with three parties, and makes a reform which is suspected in Finland that it will not lead to the result that was set up jointly. At the end of the last parliamentary term, it was precisely by the power of eight parties that the social welfare and health care system should ensure that a service promise is made. Now you've broken that service promise because you're trying to save $3 billion. It was also then that we were genuinely given the right to make decisions, and this is not going to come to these provinces, which you are driving here in an incomprehensible way. And now, thirdly: You will not limit these profits for social and health care companies in any way. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u183	One more reply from Mr Tanus, and then from the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u184	Mr President! One small practical question: Basic health and medical care and social services close, flexible and timely — a very good goal. In well-functioning basic services, many problems and problems can be dealt with, as long as the customer, the patient, is at the heart of the matter and is allowed to present his or her affairs with sufficient time and is taken into account comprehensively enough. I would like to ask: how to ensure that the units have sufficient medical resources, enough time, so that the patient, including its multi-diseased elderly or, for example, a family mother who needs social support, really gets things done right at the beginning of the treatment chain without being bounced around?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u185	Now, Minister Ruhula, would three minutes be enough, and in the same way, Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u186	Mr President! The service promise has been made. First of all, it is in the Constitution, secondly, it is read by region from that law on social welfare and health care, and then the third point, which is an entirely existing service promise: we will continue to have the Health Care Act, the Elderly Services Act, the Child Welfare Act, the Disability Services Act, the Family Care Act and so on and so on and so on. The claims that something terrible is being done to bring together that EUR 3 billion are simply not true. We will continue to have substance legislation with subjective rights, which will guide services such as disability services. It's gonna be like this in the future. Secondly, during this preparation, which has now been done in this government for such 21 months, it has been very transparent. Material has been produced that has been made public time and time again, and it has already been known in advance that once it has been made public, the government will take a hit on its side, so to speak. But a deliberate choice has been made to tell openly during the preparation process, such as how to reach that 3 billion. This has been done, and is it good or bad? It would have been easier for the government to do it differently, but it has been desired to do so in order to give people a picture of what this is all about. [Left: Not born!] In the midst of all this discussion, I understand that there are things that are of interest to the municipal road makers, to the municipal leaders, to the people of joint municipal authorities. I have a particular concern about 200,000 social and health care professionals. Now are the last moments to involve that group in the preparation of the territories. Some provinces are exemplary in a situation where future legislation, including freedom of choice, will be very easy to accept in the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u189	Mr President! First of all, Mr Aalto, when you said that 18 provinces are only a temporary solution: it is certainly not meant to be so. It has been done with a very serious mind and from the arguments that have been put forward here, and there are no municipal mergers behind it either. There are no such things behind this solution. I would also like to point out that there is no general opposition to this regional reform in small municipalities. They know that, as a result, the heavy social costs go to the wider shoulders and the risk of special care is eliminated. All in all, it is worth remembering. Then Mr Ala-Nissilä was concerned about these regional cities. I would like to say at this point that I think it is important for municipalities, regional cities, larger cities to have good cooperation with the regions. The regions and municipalities and cities are no contrasts. We need to move in the same direction on the basis of employment, the safeguarding of services, the stimulation of the business world. This is the only way to achieve economic growth in the regions as well. Then to Mr Löfström on this issue of Åland. I also feel it from the last few days and I know that there have been discussions. I would like to say, on behalf of the whole government, that the Government has no intention of weakening the situation in Åland at this point, but I am aware that there has been a debate on various details, which has been a little difficult, between the ministry and the representatives of Åland. And I also know that right now it is the intention that representatives of the ministry and then of the Åland Islands should consult each other. But let me say that the government is not intended to make the economic position of Åland any more difficult at this point, but it is precisely through the reform of this regional reduction. Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u190	It seems that there are still a lot of enthusiastic speakers here. Let's go to this debut for another 20 minutes. There are some people here who, in my opinion, have not received a single speech, starting with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u191	Mr President! When some speakers have criticised the fact that the provinces are too small and weak, it is worth pointing out that 18 regions have, however, been slightly larger than the 200 municipal health centres that have operated so far. Of course we have big and small provinces, but we can have different provinces. — — — — I do not know how it is in North Korea, which was referred to earlier. Mr President! Of course, the most important thing for the customer is how the province is going to operate in this new system of social and health care. And it is important for the customer that their operations and structures are designed according to the customer’s proper access to their services. For example, in my own province of Northern Ostrobothnia, there are currently 22 working groups, over 400 people who are planning this provincial solution. That's where they're gonna find out where they're going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u192	Mr President! However, there are legitimate fears at the moment that services will be cut and customer charges will increase. Here in the Government's proposal, on this pink page 331, we are told about the negotiation between the state and the province in relation to this financial management and here we are told in very detail how the negotiations would be conducted under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance with each province separately. I would now like to ask the Minister how you see the self-government of the people of the province taking place here. However, when we in our municipalities are used to the fact that the council decides on the budget and that action plan, how does this negotiation of the Finance Ministry intervene? So you're saying that self-government is going to happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u193	Madam President! In the debate here, it has been forgotten that this regional legislation also contains a lot of services other than social and health services alone. [Left: Unfortunately!] Many speakers have drawn attention to this freedom of choice and forget the fact that freedom of choice already exists, in fact, with the difference that people who choose a private service provider pay for it in their own wallets. In the future, it will be financed jointly and people will then choose the door from which to apply for the service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u194	Mr President! Almost every European country has a central democratic regime. Now it finally comes to Finland. I wonder how the Green Left here all the time is opposed to this democratic, democratic step that has been found to work throughout Europe. The reform of the war has been taking place for years. Previous models have always come across the Constitution, precisely as a result of this, how people have been able to decide for themselves. It has not been very municipal self-government if the hospital district sends an invoice to the municipality each year, that this amount has to be paid now — this amount now has to be paid. This model can make it easier for even the small municipalities. It has not been easy in the Pelkosenniemi of less than a thousand inhabitants to answer the same questions as in the big capital.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u197	Mr President! This has been referred to in a few speeches to this Swedish model, Sweden, and it is in no way correct in any way. But perhaps the best bits could be picked from it, and they can be found, for example, that it was deliberately decided when the model was created, that social services and care for the elderly should be left at the municipal level, to which it naturally belongs, and that could have been an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u198	Madam President! The reform of regional administration and the reform of social services must also take into account functional and cost-effective models that produce social services at the moment. For example, this is the case with the social enterprises that have been talked about here too, with private service providers. There are also good experiences. These allow services to be close to the peripheral regions outside the regional centres. There are good experiences of this in Northern Pirkanmaa and South Ostrobothnia. Of course, one model does not fit everywhere, but I can assure the opposition that these outsourcings are not always bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u199	Madam President! As I said earlier, I understand the concerns of the opposition about this freedom of choice, but today, as the Group of the Finns of Finland, for example, dealt with, this package of laws we are debating today, and then, separately, we will evaluate that freedom of choice. For example, Minister Risikko of the meeting has given the STT an interview at the turn of the month in which he says that these problems are being corrected, as is known to be the case. Of course, we Finns in Peru have no objection to us finding those mistakes, correcting them, and then, if necessary, the timetable will be flexible if that is what we have to do. But thanks to the opposition — the Greens, I think, were constructive apart from the statement by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto in North Korea — that you had a model to present, and very much that basis is the same. That basis is the same as what is being discussed here today. And then this freedom of choice propaganda is a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u200	Madam President! I would like to thank Mrs Saarakkala, and when the government's side asked for those solutions, I said that this reform would be carried out in such a way that these social and regional laws would first be passed during a longer transitional period. Let us remove this freedom of choice as a separate entity, then bring it only when this law on social and regional affairs is properly prepared and in place. Give the provinces the right to tax and bring the opposition as a whole into play. Otherwise, because of these clauses on equality and democracy, this reform will run into the Constitutional Committee again, and the Constitutional Committee will become a sort of dispute resolution mechanism that will resolve the coalition and the province-election dispute in the centre. And it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u201	Madam President! I have wondered quite a bit about the opposition’s negative attitude towards freedom of choice, when 65% of people feel that it is a really great thing to be able to choose for themselves and in a certain way to do it. After all, everyone understands that freedom of choice does not really come about without competition, with many producers. Mr Kiuru said that it was worrying when there were more producers. The thing is, when you can choose with more people, then there will be the competition, then the quality as a result of when you choose it. After all, could we think that existing services can even be complemented by new models, services brought home, mobile services, digital services, others?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u204	Mr President! It is quite incredible how much it will cost Finnish society this political compromise that you have made. There are compromises, then there are compromises that are much less morally justified. Quite frankly, you want to split up this production in this society into many pieces. We have traditionally had only very few hands in special care. Just before Christmas a decision was made in the Parliament that it would be in fewer hands. Now, however, you feel that the special treatment could be produced by almost all those capable of nailing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u207	Honorable Madam Speaker! Now I do not know what Mr Kiuru has read. At least when you are listened to, it has nothing to do with this government proposal. Madam President! I ask you now, Mr opposition: are you prepared to cooperate in committee work and in parliamentary work and to take this bill forward? We have heard the opposition speak with the ears of the government here, and it is quite clear that you do not have such a unified view. The RKP would leave social services and services for the elderly in the municipality, while the government strongly wants large shoulders and integrate services in such a way that everyone receives services equally. When there is only one coherent, viable proposal that has been made together for 20 years, I hope that you will be working together in committee to build this proposal and not to tear it down so that we can achieve the goal of social reform. Then, in the future, the provinces and staff there will implement those good care chains and ensure that this reform succeeds when together we now create the framework. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u208	Mr President! I understand that all the parliamentary parties are committed to the objective of this restructuring to curb cost growth by EUR 3 billion, but so that it can be achieved by shifting the focus of services to basic services and prevention. But, Minister Rehula, you did not answer the question of how this reform model will improve this integration of basic and special services, social services and health services, that is, those fluent service chains. How can we encourage this strengthening of basic services, however, which would be absolutely essential if these costs are to be curbed? Social reform is necessary, it is urgent, but it is not worth making a reform that does not fulfil this most important objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u209	Mr President! Let us say to Mr Sarkomaa that we are waiting for the meeting of the parliamentary working party and we will take part in it later. I take this as a promise that the invitation is coming. But you could say to the Minister that it is beneath me to try to nullify the opposition mainly by claiming that we have not been familiar with the proposal. That's not true. The Left Alliance has today published its own model of regional social welfare reform. I hope you will read it and take good suggestions for it. Mr President! The reform concerns not only citizens but also more than 200,000 employees in the public sector's social welfare and health services, the majority of whom are women. When a large proportion of public sector social security money is transferred to private producers, that means that there will no longer be enough pay for all of them in the future. I would like to ask: how do you estimate the pressure to reduce forced privatisation and freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u210	Mr President! Here I already told you how we have made effective integration and been among the three best and most efficient producers for more than 10 years in the light of the statistics from the National Institute for Health and Welfare. But, unfortunately, we now have to say that this social reform is quite fatal for the Forssa model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u213	Madam President! Very good questions from Mrs Anttila here, and I must say that she has raised the same issue as Mrs Räsänen in her previous speech. I would really like the Minister to be able to respond to this very central part of this reform, which is the implementation of this integration. In other words, if citizens' services are to be reasonably implemented in such a small country in such a way that we have enough skilled staff and that our money does not run out, it is absolutely essential that this comprehensive approach be implemented. And the main concern of the experts whom we have referred to here is that, with this model presented, this jungle of actors, which is being created here, is extremely difficult to control — if not impossible to control. Then I have to say, Mr President, that when it is said here, why is such a public monopoly being defended here, at the same time, for example, the OECD.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u215	Madam President! In the last parliamentary term, the cost of social services increased by 3.4 per cent on average per year in recent years. Gross domestic product fell by an average of 0.7% per year between 12 and 14 years. This proposal now aims to reduce the growth in social security expenditure to 1.9% per year, i.e. one and a half percentage points lower than it has been in recent years. This one-and-a-half percentage point represents EUR 300 million per year, or EUR 3 billion per 10 years. In view of demographic trends, we have no choice but to reform the way in which social spending is controlled and their growth is clearly reduced. That's how this savings come. Mr President! If integration and knowledge management take place, the administrative burden will be reduced and the decision-making responsibility will be clarified. Prevention, quick access to care, right place of care and rehabilitation and home-based services
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u216	Irade the Talman! Den första frågan har redan framförts ai i två repriser, av ledamot Räsänen, och också ledamot Anttila exemplierade den. Det gäller alltså öjligheten till integration, och jag ser fram emot ministers svar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u217	Madam President! Here, the Swedish model is quite often raised. I was there too, the whole Committee on Social Affairs and Health was there last week in Stockholm to get to know the good and bad things in the Swedish model, but we must remember that we are making the Finnish model. In Sweden, the patterns have been implemented in a different way. There health services are free of choice, but social services are long-term residents. And what I particularly remember about those visits is that in Sweden, when neither these reforms nor, in particular, the freedom of choice had even begun to make savings, how had they been successful there? There the words "Municipality of Norrtälje" and "Stockholm County" slipped. The best way to save money was to have worked together there. Everyone always picks up the most appropriate messages in their own ideology from Sweden, but the most important message I want to share here with everyone is that we go together to make the Finnish model, which is the best in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u218	Mr President! Representative Anttila, former Minister, spoke wisely and with a deep chest voice. This was wonderful to hear. Much has now been said about what is being done in the short term. The long-term effects of the reform should also be dealt with honestly. Health and well-being are very personal and precious things for people, and in a welfare society their preservation should not depend on the balance of a bank account. Professor Mats Brommels, a key figure in the preparation of the war, has already warned for a good time that health care customer fees will increase with this reform and private health insurance will also become more widespread. In this government's social model, society will initially be made to pay for the private health services of those who have paid for them in part or paid for them themselves with private insurance, but sooner or later, when the costs increase so much, the services will be reduced. This system of ours, which is currently unequal according to the OECD, will become unequal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u219	At the beginning, I said that we are going to have this debate for the next twenty minutes, but there are 18 speeches on the list of replies, so let us take these. Not all of these representatives seem to be present, but let's take these shifts, and then
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u220	Madam President! No one has answered me the question as to what is relevant to the patient, whether it is a service provider in the form of a company or whether it is not in the form of a company. Secondly, there is the horror of the billions of markets for the private sector. Have you noticed that from basic life needs such as food and roof over our heads we also have a billion-dollar market in the private sector? Why don't you, demars and greens, pretend to be municipal grocery stores? Well, then comes this speech by Mr Hoskonen: It is only that today, in Helsinki, if you live in the centre of Helsinki, there are 25 health centres within a 20-km radius of which you can choose. Instead, if you live in the village of Marienvaara in the town of Kaavi, where Mr Tolppanen and my relatives live, there is no health centre within a 20-mile radius, and this situation has been the case, and this situation will always be, that is, the kind of equality we are talking about cannot exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u223	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, first of all, imposing on the company form and splitting up services inevitably creates different administrative boundaries and does not allow for the formation of service entities and then weakens the smooth running of these service processes, which then weakens the services. That is one of the reasons why this is a much bigger question than what you have just said. Minister Ruhula, I have always greatly appreciated you over the years for the fact that integration, not only the transfer of information, but also the joint conclusion of professionals in the field of social and health services, has been a matter of honour for you, and it has also been a concept of king in many ways for you. Like Mr Anttila, I now have a great deal of concern for the future of Eksote, where these services have been brought together in a similar way, just as in Forssa. As a result of this, this real integration will no longer take place, and through this, these services will be broken down into small service packages and service processes will be weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u224	Mr President! There is a very special debate on freedom of choice, for example, which will then be dealt with as a separate package. Today we have freedom of choice: at the moment, the good people can choose through health care, through private health insurance. I am concerned about those poor and disadvantaged Finns who are currently not allowed to choose services. Hopefully, this will also mean that every Finn will also be able to enjoy genuine freedom of choice. But before that, it is essential that we also get enough shoulders for the public service operator and the decision-maker, the provincial council that will be elected later. This is a very good thing that in Finland we can finally get on the road to the rest of Europe. These bureaucratic multiplicity of administrative costs, which we now have in the middle of our administration, can be summed up by a total of 400 players in 18 players, who will organise these social services in a strong way in their region in the future. I myself come from Kainuu, where these services have long been provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u225	Mr President! I very much appreciate the preparatory work that is now being done in the provinces in seeking the best model in their own region. I believe that on this basis things are moving forward, and the reform of social security is important, and that is indeed what is needed. But I think the government should hear the criticisms of the experts. The very high risks are linked to this forced public production company and to the fact that freedom of choice is indeed threatening to jeopardise the quality and availability of our health services. Representative Sarkomaa has here called for the opposition to be involved in the reform. Of course, the Greens will be prepared to participate in the parliamentary group if you set this up and resolve these further challenges. Freedom of choice: The fact that it can be implemented through, among other things, service vouchers and personal budgeting has become very clear in this debate. This will improve the scope for small businesses to operate and promote freedom of choice in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u226	Mr President! I don't know if it's always worth going beyond the sea to fish. We really do have good operating models in Finland. We've been trying to do this for 15 years, so we have Exote and Kainuu and Forssa models. I would like to highlight this social enterprise from the producer model. We currently have a social company in Mänttä-Vilppula together with Pihlajalinna. We were able to reduce the cost by 3 million in the first year. That is because we have good treatment management and good care chains after that. It's a social integration at the moment. If the 3 million people in 10,000 were to be put into this game in all municipalities in the same way, it would save some 1.5 billion dollars on this trick alone, that is, by means of treatment and care chains. Now that we have further administrative relaxation, I believe that we will reach that level of 3 billion. Doesn't make me weak. For this regional cooperation, as Mr Karimäki pointed out: I agree that we have a number of people working in the provinces at the moment. Even in Pirkanmaa, 500 people are doing and wondering how to come to their own province with that model. Let's give this place some peace. But I hope, anyway,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u227	Madam President! There are quite a lot of threats being thrown around here, but I think that this reform offers a great deal of opportunities. When we look at a multi-producer model in service production, it is a huge new field of work and opportunity, especially for third sector organisations. I will take the example of Turku, where for more than 20 years the Southwest Finland Muscle Disease Association has been providing assistance services to people with severe disabilities. When we made provision here in the Disability Services Act for the right to personal assistance, the demand for services grew enormously. Because the municipalities are unable to provide those services themselves, they choose as partners one who has strong knowledge of that particular area of activity. In this reform, it is absolutely excellent that personal budgeting becomes part of freedom of choice. With this opportunity, we are giving the opportunity to respect the right to self-determination of people with disabilities and, above all, to strengthen their involvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u228	Mr President! The SDP accepts the Government's original objectives for social welfare reform and the transfer of responsibility for organising to the wider shoulders. But in the government model these original goals will not be fulfilled. There will be no integration, no treatment chains, no equality, no de-bureaucraticisation or even this cost-control. This government model will lead to forced companyisation and the breakdown of service chains, which will then also make cost control more difficult. We in North Karelia have been united in the beginning of the year into Siu's war. However, I am quite certain, through the many discussions I have had with municipal decision-makers, that we do not have very many decision-makers who want to be forced on in two years' time. We'd like to continue with our own model, but I don't think that's possible now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u229	Mr President! As Mr Pirttila has already opened, it has not been intended that this savings of 3 billion, which seem to be involved in the debate, should be cut off at once, but by 29 C.E. This can be checked in the Government proposal on page 227. I also think it is important not to ignore the fact that the core of social services remains on the public side. This intimidation of privatisation and outsourcing will certainly also harm those people who are really thinking about their own health and how services will be provided in the future. Let's not give people the wrong idea! These private operators seem to be the biggest bogeyman of all. I would not see this competition as a mere negative. Of course it works out these service providers for the best possible, and I do think,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u230	Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Vehviläinen for his reply to my previous question. Åland's reduction proposal is good, but not problem-free, and it is important to find out all the question marks. If the countervailing criterion is modified or partially replaced, the level must first be correct. The reduction in Åland also needs uniform safeguards in the Autonomy Act as well as the current lump sum, otherwise the reform will not be neutral. No formal discussions have taken place with Åland in advance, despite the fact that these are matters that require Åland's consent. The Government should therefore withdraw this part of the bill, formulate the proposal together with Åland and then come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u231	Mr President! Very few opportunities have been raised in this Chamber for this social reform. The last point was that the public sector could run out of money to pay the salaries of its staff. However, I believe that social and health care staff in this country have the best prospects in order to maintain their own work. They are needed in the public, private and third sectors, skilled, skilled staff. And it is often the case that if the services are transferred, the personnel will also be transferred. After all, no one can guarantee that you will have the same job until the end of life, that in that sense this debate is a little pointless. Last time I was at one of those events yesterday, the social services and health care staff said that at last you were going to do something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u232	Madam President! After all, in this proposal this was first marketed to the public in the name of freedom of choice, until it was said that this would require a compulsory company. And when it comes to the incorporation of companies, that is dictated by the starting point of the law on limited liability companies. The purpose of the company's operations is always to make profits to shareholders. It is clear that private health companies want dividends, but only when they are profitable. However, in this model, the public sector is left with those parts of the services that are not of interest to companies, because the return is non-existent or even a minus sign. Market logic is essentially linked to profit, and the fundamental question here is whether public tax-produced services should generate profits for private companies. This is, Ben Zyskowicz, this is the reason behind this company law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u233	Madam President! The target is about 1.5% savings in the next 12 years in the development of social welfare and health care. Strong integration is a key means of achieving this. Now the provinces need to find consensus on how to start developing their own activities, and also to shorten the service and care queues so that they become convinced that the public operator is their future player on whom they rely. This will also reduce the entry of private companies into the market and the transfer of the margins mentioned here to private service production. I would see that the key instrument currently required of the ministry is the creation of a single reporting system for us, an integration platform under the existing reports, which can then lead to a strong integration in management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u234	Mr President! It has now been quite a fuss in this Chamber today, but I do not think there is anyone who would think that this reform would not be necessary. It is true that reform needs courage to look forward. It seems to me that the most important thing here for the opposition, especially the SDP, is to protect the old structures. That is what I would like to ask you: is that really the case? But I would also like to ask the Minister about this constituency issue. I understand very well that the region should be represented as a whole, but I would like to ask once you have considered this issue of democracy: has the increase in election costs in the region been taken into account? Have we considered this dramatic rise in the sound threshold? Has the experience of the elections in HOK-Elanto been taken into account, for example, which show that it is really difficult to get into the council from these spending limits areas? And has it been considered that on several occasions the division of Uusimaa into two parliamentary districts has been considered and, on the other hand, two large districts are now being merged? Now that we are waiting for this decision to be taken in the capital region, would it be worth considering this special area from a democratic point of view as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u235	Madam President! When we are talking about this particular package of legislation and it has just been said that there is no criticism of it and that statements have been taken into account: probably in part, but I have just checked that most of the contributors last autumn were very critical of the implementation of integration with this model, but it was not changed. A very large part was critical of what happens to municipal properties with this model. It wasn't changed. Most of them were very critical of forced-to-carrying, and it was not changed. That is why this belief is always improved once the opinions have been received is not quite the best one at the moment. And this debate also leads to that debate on freedom of choice. Nor has it been clear to me yet, when we were, therefore, all eight parties together in the process of social reform, why we are now forced to join the same administration on the same date in relation to the services of the state administration, control tasks, transport, the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u236	Mr President! A little more to sum up: In any case, I understand these reforms in two ways. Firstly, with regard to the wars, the question is that we will be able to secure services for a long time in the future, and with the reform of the province, the question is that we will then be able to develop the vitality of the provinces. Although the debate here today has been quite critical, I can still hope that we will find strong cooperation here and find a common understanding and also a positive will that these major reforms can be carried forward — that is, the same willingness to move these reforms forward as there is very much in that region. Many times we have already paid attention to this consultation, and I agree with it, just as the Prime Minister has said, that these reforms need to involve experts and the views that are being expressed as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u237	Madam President! A lot of pertinent questions arise here, and it would be good not to have so much of this confrontation but to try more to answer these questions. Here, for example, the presentation shows that different customer charges are coming into different areas. They would be considered one municipality at a time. This raises the question of equality. Then there is a reduction in municipal tax on all municipalities of 12.47 per cent, and yet the municipalities are very different in how they finance their services at the moment. Then there is this role of the third sector: the third sector is very concerned at the moment that there is very little talk about their future. However, it is an important complement to the social sector in all municipalities, but their whole field of activity is fully open to this reform, and they are not capable of such a change that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u238	Madam President! Social and health care reform and regional reform are essential in order to maintain and guarantee services in the future and also to ensure the vitality of different regions and regions. It's obvious. And, as Minister Rehula has said here, it is very much up to the regions and depends on what has been said here, on how the regions and the regions in question decide: what is the division of labour, whether we want to do it, whether we want to work together or not. There are also very good examples of this already at this stage. Although this law is not even in force, many provinces have started and are preparing for this. At the same time, it has been found to improve the efficiency of functions and maintain local services, and it is also better and cheaper for the patient. Absolutely good and necessary. Then, President-in-Office, it is also important for the provinces to have more power to act, and for the law to be sufficiently broad so that the differences can also be exploited and thus the vitality built so that the state does not dictate everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u239	One last speech before the ministers, Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u240	Madam President! I would now like to ask Minister Ruhula again the question that has already been answered in part. In other words, when our ict systems are a very important part of the whole of these services and the flow of information, how are we prepared in these service processes to ensure that these ict systems work? If there are problems at the end of 2018 and these ict systems do not work, how will this whole system be implemented and how will it be ensured that the necessary transfer of data between different companies? And then if there are problems with the ict system and the timetable is not kept, what will happen with this social welfare reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u241	Minister Rehula will begin. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u242	Madam President! We'll have a war on that day, and we'll have freedom of choice on that day when the information goes. And if a situation arises that information does not pass, then the implementation will be delayed to the extent that information does not pass. We have a war on that day, we have freedom of choice on that day when knowledge passes. For its part, the Government will try to act — as Mr Vehviläinen said here — on the next clear policy decisions will be taken around 20 April. There was an interlude, so it couldn't be that way. This is a very pragmatic attitude. Similarly to this discussion of incorporation: First of all, I am sorry if my speeches have sounded arrogant. I've been trying to keep myself together in a situation where it's a little tricky when there's a situation where you just have to try to remember to tell me the same thing for the tenth time. We are in the process of making legislation in which the private, public and third sectors are on the same track. And yes, in this role, I ask who is afraid of the situation that our public services will not be able to cope with the private sector. The opposition probably now has some hidden information that I do not have or that the government of the country does not have. But my nose says it, without being based on the first calculation I would have seen that our public service production will otherwise be surprising in this case. We have very competitive services. Their availability is good. But then we come to the situation to which we also compare. This is the representative. Jaskari went through a long list of things about the living life that is already today, let alone there should be a future. Services, those that today — not to mention 10 or 15 years ago — are in health stations and even hospitals, those services are provided or cared for at home, not to mention when we go forward to the future. For example, the best dirt in sparsely populated areas, large distances, is currently being built up to ensure that information flows. Then there is the question of integration. Articles 13, 14 and 23 of the Act on Social Welfare and Health Care At least they are articles about integration. This legislation is a framework for the work that should be done in the regions. For the third time in the course of this debate, it is absolutely vital that staff should be taken on board and, secondly, the much-speaked regional specificities of the regions where we are still thinking about what should be done here. We should start building that county service network, that integrated service network. Integration is at the very heart of this, the key driver of which is that information passes. The Swedish style has been introduced. Then just one more comment: the constitutional assessment of this package of laws will be carried out by the Constitutional Committee of Parliament after consulting experts. As far as we're concerned, none of us know that yet. Let's give the Constitutional Committee some peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u243	Secretary Vehviläinen, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u244	Mr President! This is the representative. Tavitsainen also raised an important issue about the negotiation mechanisms between the provinces and the state. And there are quite a few of them, actually. But first of all, when the provinces are a central part of public finances and 90% of regional funding comes from the state, it is quite natural that it also has its own joint negotiation procedure. Of course, on the part of the State, the instruments used to discuss and also partly direct the provinces are the budgetary plan, the budget and the legislation. And now for this negotiation. Its purpose is precisely that, together, it considers that the regional funds are sufficient, so to speak, to implement the principle of financing the tasks which the provinces have, and that funding is sufficient. Similarly, investments, large investments, and the kind of legislation that will be developed, are the ones that the provinces and the state need to discuss with each other. The advisory board of the regional economy will be separate, which is similar to that of municipalities and municipalities, and this kind of continuous consultation between municipalities and the state on important legislative matters and other matters. Mr Mäkelä then returned to this constituency issue in Uusimaa. I repeat that the more constituencies in the province — or even if so, as was the case in Kainuu at the time, that the representation of the municipalities would be secured — the more difficult it would be for the whole province to make its voice come true. So I personally am in favour of that constituency being equal. At the same time, I would like to say that this is the minimum size of the regions from 59 to 99. If the province considers that the minimum amount cannot be met — that is to say, in Uusimaa it is 99, of course, because when Uusimaa is the largest, it certainly has the maximum number of these representatives — then the council also has the opportunity to increase the size of the province. Then there is Mr Paatero's question on these buildings. We are well aware that there are risks, but that risk is not coming in 2019, but in several years' time. And as is known, at first they are rented, but nevertheless I think it is very important that we have the tools to provide, the expertise to do what is done with regard to individual properties, plus the frameworks to provide for this with discretionary assistance. Even then, with friendship, I would like to say about these other tasks, that is, why these other tasks were carried out: Yes, I say that if you begin to familiarise yourself with our regional and provincial administration on the state side and also on the part of the joint municipal boards, it will be very fragmented. If anyone considers it to be a good system now, I do disagree strongly with that. That's why it's wisdom to do it in the same context.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u245	And now we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u246	Madam President! The key objectives of this reform of social welfare and health care must be to reduce health inequalities and ensure the availability and quality of services and to strengthen integration. All this together should also result in cost savings, and I am sure that there will also be cost savings if this is done in a sensible way. From these stated and widely supported objectives and starting points, this whole must now also be examined in the parliamentary debate. Social and health care reform is needed. That is what I am absolutely convinced of, and I think we all agree on it. The previous government prepared the proposal on a parliamentary basis. At that time, this municipal reform fell into the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, and due to the proximity of the elections there was no longer time to make the necessary changes. I played an expert role in that preparation at the time, and it was, of course, a pity that it could not be moved forward at the time. It is, of course, now important that social and health care reform should therefore be able to move forward and be achieved in such a way as to achieve the objectives that have been set. Social and health services are at the heart of people's daily lives and well-being, and in many ways they come very close to us all. The population is ageing and the threat of inequality is also a fact in our society. Unfortunately, however, the social reform is very often referred to as a mere reform of health care. Of course, it is close to people because many people experience those health services most often in their everyday lives. However, we know that the realisation of social justice is a key factor in the well-being and health of people. After all, it is directly linked to the employment situation, to the equality of education and also to the state of the environment. Up to now, all these matters, objectives and tasks have been taken care of and answered by the municipalities. Now this social welfare reform will transfer social and health care services to larger areas in the future. I believe that the larger areas of social protection are to be welcomed. They will allow unnecessary barriers to be brought down and funding and the organisation of operations as well as information systems will be brought into the same hands. However, attention now needs to be paid to what kind of barrier this future freedom of choice legislation will create, on which we do not yet know exactly what the content is. In particular, it would now be worth looking at and worrying about this law on organisation and the services of municipalities that the promotion of the health and well-being now remaining in municipalities is therefore in the municipalities and, on the other hand, that the regions will take care of this sedentary and caring activity and that social and health care staff will also be transferred to the regions. Perhaps one of the most concrete examples of this will emerge in practical life from the welfare services of children and young people. Schools and early childhood education remain in municipalities, but then, for example, maternity clinics and child welfare will be the responsibility of the provinces. This is a whole that needs to be looked at very thoroughly and ensure that concrete, functional models can be found in such a way that the competence of municipalities is in place and cooperation between municipalities and this social welfare area functions seamlessly and that information is also passed. However, the main concern is the differentiation of service production with these future companies, which are envisaged under this freedom of choice legislation. If this corrective action is transferred to the company, what is their interest in using their resources and expertise for health and well-being activities under the responsibility of the provinces and municipalities? Mr President! The committees now have a huge package on their spring agenda. The work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will begin tomorrow morning, when we will spend the whole morning looking into the details of the legislative package. The timetable is tight, especially because this freedom of choice legislation will then come later in the spring. However, this entity, the law of organisation and the law of freedom of choice, must be able to deal with at the same time in order to keep this under control in respect of these laws. From the point of view of parliamentary work, it is important that the legislation on freedom of choice planned by the government is now available to Parliament in time for the committees to have sufficient time for the proper handling of this legislative package.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u247	Madam President! After this heated debate, I would like to return to some basics. I have closely followed these stages of social reform since the beginning of the so-called Risko model in 2009. There was, of course, something else before that, including the National Health Project in 2003. Several points have been in favour of reforming our system. Before that, however, it has to be said that despite the problems in Finland, health care is still quite high internationally and is doing well with many indicators. The indicators at which we are doing worse also include mortality and morbidity factors. In this respect, we must bear in mind that we still bear the historic burden of the world’s top-class cardiovascular mortality and the death of men from tobacco cancer. These are things that, fortunately, have changed dramatically for the better and whose causes are much beyond health care. The need for reform has appeared particularly in the problems of primary health care and care for the elderly. Difficulties in getting to a doctor and health center queues have spoken. This, on the other hand, has been due to a fragmented system that has led to the shift in the focus of resources in health care towards special care and to the lack of basic services. However, it would be good primary health care that would reduce the need for expensive special care, that would best support public health and that is also what the public places particular emphasis on. The need for reform is also stressed by concerns about increased costs, largely due to increased medical opportunities, more expensive care and increased aspirations of the population. The ageing of the population, which is highlighted in political speeches, does, of course, affect but less than what has been said. Let us forget that the ageing population is also much healthier than before, and the so-called dependency ratio depends on the retirement age. Throughout the whole process, I have stressed, as have so many others, the need to organise services in a sufficiently large area under integrated management. In this case, the same administration manages both basic services and specialised services and both health and social services without intermediate barriers. In such cases, the priorities for resources within the province can be determined in a coherent manner and where appropriate. On this basis, the present law on organisation is historic and, in my opinion, excellent. Unfortunately, the ideas and preparations of previous years for different municipal models, with their so-called host municipalities, slowed down much of the reform process. We lost a lot of important years. In my opinion, the regions are natural areas in Finland to be responsible for an integrated service system. Of course, they are often quite small to be responsible for some specific services, but for this we need regional cooperation agreements and so-called cooperation areas. This debate on the number of regions is essentially influenced by whether matters are viewed from the point of view of special care or basic services. If everything is based on basic health care, I think that the provinces are, of course, the natural area under Finnish conditions. The importance of the regions as a whole is also emphasised when it comes to promoting disease prevention and health promotion. Here, the various regional-based organisations and municipalities, together with the social services system, play a key role. Of course, as you understand, my views have been influenced by my decades of experience in North Karelia. I therefore consider the proposed model for organising social welfare reform to be very successful. As stated in Article 1 of the draft law, the aim is to ensure equal, cost-effective and high productivity services. It is the integrated regional model which, if properly implemented, can best contribute to the objective of equal access to services, and I would point out that I am talking specifically about equal access to services. In this debate, too, there has often been talk of reducing health inequalities, which is of course important, but even the best of them can only be achieved in a very limited way. In particular, health inequalities come from differences in terms of alcohol, tobacco, food and living conditions. Decisions on this will be made, among other things, in connection with the future alcohol law. The importance of this package of social protection laws is underlined by the fact that this will make it possible to substantially simplify the responsibilities of organisation, in which more than 300 municipalities and nearly 200 organisers are now being replaced by 18 regions. So while our current system is relatively good, the need for change is great and, above all, when the system, the actors and the population have been regarded as uncertain for years, it is now urgent to decide on the reform in this Parliament. Madam President! How services are organised within the province so that a good reform can be achieved must then be considered later in this so-called freedom of choice law, which is only in the consultation and preparation process. It is, as the old saying says, a whole other thing in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u248	Mr President! The main objective of the proposal under discussion is to ensure that a healthy and well-being person has equal access to the services needed. This social welfare package is the result of an exceptionally long preparation — it is a result prepared by several governments, by all parties, almost 20 years of joint effort — and we all agree here that this reform is now necessary, so would it not now be in the interests of the nation that it would be responsible to join forces and take this result of the years of joint work in Parliament, in committee work, in cooperation with the end? It is not in anyone's interest to bring the war back to square one, particularly the ones raised by the left. It is the least of all in the interests of a person waiting for services, but it is not in the interests of any party. I believe that this social reform and its success are now about the credibility of the whole policy. We Finns have joined forces in difficult matters, and now here is its place again. Social welfare reform is carried out for people in need of services and their interests should now be given priority to the whole of Parliament. And it has to be said that this static water for social welfare will erode the foundations of our whole welfare society. Reform must now be carried out. It has also been well pointed out in the group statement and in the speeches by us in the group that the social workers are exhausted from the wrangling, which means that this reform can no longer be left undone. It is quite clear that this model before us certainly does not meet the wishes of all 200 Members, nor is it the own model of any party. I myself openly admit that it has been difficult to swallow that 18 - length model of carrying capacity. I think that the five areas of social protection for bigger muscles would have been the best response to the challenges of the future. Of course, I would have preferred to have introduced the Freedom of Choice Act in Parliament at the same time as this Regional Law, the Social Security Act, but I understand very well the government's timetable to prepare that Freedom of Choice Act through a wide-ranging civil debate. And, of course, the citizens of the city will say that then in Parliament we will look at this whole package as a whole and we will assess it. I'm sure there are disappointments in the bill. It may not be quite what many of us would have thought. Perhaps I myself would have liked to see a separate social settlement in the capital region. In other words, each of us has some painful points in relation to this package of laws, but nevertheless, and that is precisely why it is very important that this bill is now being taken forward. I hope that in future we will be discussing the issues that are in the bill, not the things that someone fears or might have written. Quite a few of the opposition's speeches were about things that are not really there in this bill. All these issues are addressed in committee work and, of course, all the corrective proposals that move forward with the objectives of the reform – at least we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists – are equally welcome, coming from the opposition or from the government. It is up to the opposition to make criticism, and that is what has been proposed. The task is also to present an alternative, but when I heard this debate, it is quite clear that the opposition does not have a uniform alternative. The only viable proposal after this twenty years is now this government proposal, and I hope that we can take this forward together. I very much hope that when we work together on this bill, we will be able to say that this is a historic, major reform. And when I have read and looked at this, I can say that this proposal will provide a framework for us to secure equal and cost-effective services in the future. Of course, if, along the way, there are suggestions for improvement in the parliamentary procedure, at least I am fully prepared to do so, as are our whole parliamentary group. I now ask the opposition: Are you prepared to join forces to move this reform forward? Are you prepared to build a common Finnish social and health care reform instead of tearing it down? It is clear that this reform will never be completed. The reform must also be accompanied by a decision on how to monitor the impact of this reform, and the reform must be constantly improved and corrected. What is good about the freedom of choice legislation, especially when it comes to this Parliament, is that it makes it possible for the reform to be continuous and to take place from the point of view of the people. In other words, freedom of choice will accelerate the ongoing reform of social welfare and health care even after this reform has been adopted here. Finally, Mr President, I would like to appeal to the opposition that your disgust with increasing the involvement of people is not the reason why you are bringing down this reform. Finland was the first country to strengthen people's participation through the Patient Act, and now this Freedom of Choice Act is another step towards achieving what other Nordic countries and Europe have already done: it is a perfect and functional day-to-day place for people to choose and influence their own services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u249	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Hela den offentliga sector i Finland står nu inför en omvälvande förändring. Jag tycker ricksdage absolut brode ha fått ta ställning till hela den ox reformen som en helset. Nu tvingas vi att, lite så rai bit för bit, ta ställning till en megareform utan att — åtminstone jag — ännu ha kunnat förmå se helheten. För till exempel social- och helsovården vet vi ännu inte vad det slutliga förslaget till valfrihet blir. Det skulle vara viktigt att redan nu veta det för att kunna utvärdera viikka effekter den kommer att ha på den enskilda patienten, medborgare, personalen som flyttas på kommunerna och på statsfinanserna. Det är därför mycket prob-lematiskt att vi inte kan ta ställning till hela packaget på en gång.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u250	Mr President! Jumping into the unknown, development may go backwards, privatisation, power away from politicians, money to the world — we live a little while in a fear society here, that for what reason, what evil can happen if any reform in this world, this Finland happens. One professor also said that the current system is highly competitive. When you look at the results of the current system, when you ask how this works, there are six to eight weeks’ queues in a given area of basic health care, there may be one year’s queues for dentists, and the availability of treatment across Finland is very uneven. Productivity differences between different health centres are up to tens of per cent. The Sote administration, you can say, is quite a bit fat in a certain way in its middle part. And you can say that there is quite a lot of inefficient practices that cannot really be properly compared when you are not at the same level and you look at what would be the best practices that could be introduced across Finland. So it seems that even this group of professors, who suggested that we want more time, seems to be afraid of genuine quality competitiveness like the plague. I genuinely wonder why this freedom of choice, which allows people to choose between more producers, has been so strongly in the hands of the opposition. As I said earlier, 65 per cent of Finns are in favour of freedom of choice, wanting to see where the best service would be for him. And we all know that there is absolutely no freedom of choice if there is no choice. And quality competitiveness often comes from the fact that there is competition between new ideas, different ways of working. I genuinely wonder, too, why it is said that we should remain in the hands of only public sector producers, because you really can choose. You can make the ideological choice that you are only among the public sector producers. Someone chooses it, and you have to appreciate it. I also agree with Minister Rehula that this public sector can otherwise be very surprising. There is now a view that there is a zeal to do that will show how this work. By the way, it can be tough on other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u255	Madam President! As a Member of Parliament, it is rarely possible to discuss a reform as important as what we are discussing today. Social and regional reform is central to the survival of the welfare state as a whole. Unfortunately, the government is presenting us with a model that can have irreversible effects on the functioning of our system and on equal healthcare for citizens. Finns are mainly satisfied with social welfare and health services, but the price of services and from door to door running is considered a problem. It is therefore necessary to implement the reform of the social security system. However, the government's proposal has forgotten these original objectives. On the other hand, savings and the advantage of private health giants have begun to be modelled. The government model is a threat to public health. It is not really a question of freedom of choice, it is a question of scrapping our system of well-functioning components in order to make it possible for it to be enforced. In addition to the fact that we rarely get to discuss such an important reform, we rarely deal with a bill in Parliament, which is firmly condemned by experts on the line as this government's proposal for social services. Every day we get to read in the newspapers how the country’s leading social experts, one after another, warn of the risks associated with the government’s performance. Now, if ever the government were to swallow its pride, as it has done many times before, it would suspend the coven-running model and restore the social reform to parliamentary scrutiny. For example, a week ago, YLE asked five prestigious professors who followed the social welfare reform to evaluate the government proposal. The answer was stunning. According to the professors, the draft law on so-called freedom of choice in the statement does not solve the problems of our social security system, but, on the contrary, it may lead us back. The present regional reform is an essential part of social reform and cannot be treated as separate legislative proposals. The Left wants the regional reform to increase democracy. We are also in favour of responsible and controlled social welfare reform. However, we are not in favour of an unequal proposal to cover the health costs of the rich from tax resources and to allow the health giants around international taxes to do business with the health of our people at the same time as the poor are forgotten. Mr President! As a detail, I would also like to highlight the situation of shelters after the regional and social reform. For example, according to the Federation of Mother and Child Homes and Shelter Homes, the government's obligation of incorporation is a serious risk for social welfare reform. After the reforms, it is necessary to ensure that a sufficiently radical correction is made for too small a number of shelters. This has been repeatedly pointed out to Finland, for example, by the human rights organisation Amnesty. The Left Alliance also wants sustainable and high-quality social and health services for the most vulnerable citizens, without prejudice to customer fees or distances. We want to promote citizens' real freedom of choice and self-determination. Unfortunately, these objectives are not being fulfilled in the government's proposal. Because of the lack of a proposal — which has also been acknowledged here by the representatives of the government parties during the debate — the reform should be restored to careful parliamentary preparation. This would be the best solution for citizens and for Finland as a whole. The theme of the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence "Together" must also be made concrete in the regional and social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u256	Madam President! There are fears about freedom of choice, as we have heard this afternoon, but Mr Hänninen's comment that the assembly would impose freedom of choice is already quite false proof of one's neighbor. I think that the patient's freedom of choice is a good thing, but the use of freedom of choice now, even though it works in the public sector between units, is still rather limited, albeit constantly increasing. However, it has not been very successful in facilitating the most discussed problem of Finnish health care, i.e. long access time. That is why freedom of choice is justified and highly desirable. However, there are still points in this model that are questionable for people working in special care. That is why I believe that it must be focused on with particular care. If professionals suspect that the effectiveness of treatment is impaired or that the integration of treatment is fragmented, then it is necessary to ensure that these issues are not progressing. We know from various studies that there are large regional differences in treatment practices and the population-specific costs of special care. These differences cannot be explained by demographic structure or disease. Several studies have also highlighted regional over-use of special care. Our treatment practices are very different in different parts of the country and also in the same area between different actors. For example, the percentages per capita vary significantly by special sector without a medical basis. Recently, international attention has been paid to the effectiveness of treatment in specialised medical care. This refers to the benefit that the patient or society receives from the treatment provided. Effectiveness should be measured precisely when assessing effectiveness. The effectiveness should be measured, not only by the number of visits or other outputs, but by the health benefits of these visits. Indeed, it is these inefficient visits that represent a significant part of over-use. According to various estimates, a significant part of the diagnosis and treatment of special care, up to 20-40%, is inefficient. Studies also show that limiting the cost of special care is a great opportunity to reduce the cost of inefficient care. The right things in the right place at the right time, that is what this reform is seeking. In addition to improving quality, the on-call reform and the centralisation of operational management are also aimed at harmonising treatment lines. A key prerequisite for the harmonisation of treatment lines is the management of referral traffic, which enables the patient to be directed to the right treatment and treatment site at the beginning of this treatment chain. Mr President! The coordination of treatment must ensure that decision-making on treatment guidelines is not broken down or that the range of policies is growing. In the current freedom of choice model, the individual service provider's inspiration is in performance, not in effectiveness, not in the production of health benefits, and it is precisely for this reason that instead of the choice of the place of care, there is a fear that there will be freedom of choice for the care line, and then we will be able to forget about health benefits. Mr President! I give my full support to the social reform and will encourage, at this stage, when we receive statements from the draft laws on freedom of choice, special care in examining them and taking the best comments from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u257	Mr President! We are currently dealing with the biggest reform of Finland's independent economic history: the reform of social security. There is a very broad consensus in this House that reform is needed. There are different views on the content. Now, however, reform is needed, and then the talk of moving to parliamentary preparation can be forgotten. The opposition can also serve its country in committee. After all, in the committees all parties are involved in this reform. I really recommend that there be as broad a consensus as possible to bring this reform to the port. I myself believe that reform is needed. However, I am now dealing very strongly with this reform from the point of view of my own province and its vitality. I come from Häme, a province of some 180,000 inhabitants, which does not include any of the twelve full - service central hospitals, but we have a six - member central hospital in our province. In addition, we also have Riihimäki and the Forssa region alongside the Hämeenlinna region. We have been pioneering work in the Forssa region for 17 years since the beginning of 2000 when we put primary health care and primary care in the same joint municipal authority and built care chains in a way that people have been very satisfied with. The economic results have also been excellent, because we have been among the top three service providers of the National Institute for Health and Welfare for some ten years because of this successful integration. Since the beginning of 2014, we also transferred municipal social services to this joint municipal authority, and now we have had four years of experience of integrating social services into this group. Furthermore, our financial results are in comparison with the need-standardised expenditure on health care and care for the elderly at the top, so we have also managed to get the service chains in place in such a way that social services were integrated together. It took its time, but now the chains are functional and people are satisfied as users of the service. Now, of course, we have carefully explained what this new situation means to us in practice. In the preparation of the province, we tried hard to get two other regions involved in implementing the Forssa model also in the Riihimäki region and in the Hämeenlinna region, where we would have the same model in action, but we did not succeed. Now we have calculated what this reform means from the point of view of the region. First of all, the tax revenues of five municipalities are transferred from our region to be decided by the province, 95 million of municipalities' tax revenues on an annual basis when the tax percentage of municipalities is cut. The mere shutdown of our hospital surgery, which is now due to the amendment of the Health Care Act, will mean a loss of EUR 18 million to our region, and the future of some 200 women-dominated jobs will be threatened. Special medical emergency services are also part of this, which we are losing. We are at the bottom of 16% unemployment in Forssa, and this development in the region is very easy to achieve. Then, when the hospital’s surgery is driven down, Häme University of Applied Sciences’ nursing training cannot continue in Forssa, because then we will no longer have a teaching hospital. Against this background, I hope that, when this reform is being discussed in committee, there will be no possibility of thinking that models that have been functioning for ten years could be those that could continue to operate. I do not know whether this is an impossible request, but as a representative of the region, I am making this request to the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u258	Mr President! Finland needs a reform of social welfare and health care, and this reform is good and natural to build on a regional basis and at the same time transfer to self-governing regions other tasks that are inherent in them. Much has already been said today about the serious problems of the government's social welfare model in relation to the efficient and cost-effective organisation of social and health services. However, I would like to raise a few more points in the debate on the actual self-government of the provinces and the provision of support services. It is questionable whether the provinces will actually have self-government and the ability to respond to the service they have. The freedom of action of the provinces is restricted through a number of channels. There should be no real freedom for regions to decide how they organise their services. In the future, the regions responsible for social services must not decide for themselves on the production structure and the management model of the service system. The provinces are forced to transfer basic services to the so-called freedom of choice and to re-incorporate their own service production. In addition, provinces are obliged to purchase a certain percentage of other services from private producers, regardless of whether it is reasonable from the point of view of the organisation and cost-effectiveness of the services. The province is forced to privatise a certain part of the services, even if it is costly and inappropriate for the overall service chains. This, if any, indicates that it seems that the government is not pursuing good and cost-effective service chains but is pursuing ideological privatisation objectives. Mr President! The regions are forced to differentiate between the organisation and production of services. In other words, the regions are forced to have an organisational structure in many municipalities that is not well-known as a subscriber-producer model. For example, we have In Oulu there was a stand-alone customer-producer model for social services for a few years. However, it was decided not to do so, as the model was found to be bureaucratic and costly and to complicate the organisation of seamless service chains. Now this model, which has been found to be unsuccessful, bad and costly in Oulu and many other municipalities, is being forced into the whole kingdom. Instead, the integrated service chains of the regional social welfare model built in Kainuu will have to be broken down when the government forces the provinces to separate organisation and production, forced-to-companies and partial privatisation. The operational room for manoeuvre of the provinces is also narrow in economic terms. The regions are not given the right to tax, but they have to live up to it every year by means of state funding. Moreover, there is no capacity for long-term borrowing. In strict state control, the regions will not have the tools to build their service system to best serve the citizens, to meet the living conditions of the region and to be cost-effective. The question arises as to whether this model will implement the autonomy required by the Constitution. There will be no real tools left in the regions to curb cost-level growth by improving the service system, so the only option remains to increase customer charges or reduce services. It seems that it is mainly up to the provincial councils to decide which municipality the terveys centre will be closed down next. Mr President! In accordance with the Government's policy, the farm administration, ict services and personnel support services will be transferred to national service centres. There are a few questions on this line: Firstly, does it actually mean a major concentration of support services in the capital region? I hope not. After all, support services are now mainly provided in the regions. The question also arises: how can nationally centralised services respond flexibly to the needs of the provinces and how to avoid a mammoth organisation such as Senate Properties that no one is satisfied with? The big question is how national and regional support service companies can operate within the framework of the new procurement law and the freedom of choice legislation. According to the contract law, only 5 % or EUR 500000 per year can be sold out by public affiliated companies. This will obviously mean that support service companies will not be allowed to provide any services to the county-owned freedom of choice companies. In other words, the support services provided by national or regional service centres may not be sold to the associated health centres of the province. All support services provided by the freedom of choice companies from human resources management and farm services to cleaning and catering are apparently to be purchased from a private company or produced in the company itself. This incomprehensible piece of legislation adopted by the government parties will probably mean huge practical problems with the provision of support services and the privatization of historic support services. This section will also lead to the Provinces not being able to purchase support services from companies owned by municipalities, i.e. even if there is a central kitchen next to the Old People's House, the municipal catering company may not sell food from it to the elderly service provided by the Province. This problem must be clarified and taken up in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u259	Mr President! Even today, Finland has a very well-functioning social welfare and health care system. In international comparison, it is even affordable and efficient. Back in the early days of the Public Health Act, when I started my own basic health care doctor’s career, health care was also equal and equitable. Of course, there are also problems with health care. Basic health care today is not an attractive career choice for doctors, unlike, for example, in the UK or in some Benelux countries. This has led to the situation that young doctors mainly work in the front line. Of course, they have a great deal of medical knowledge and knowledge, but it is impossible to use it in the health centre in the present world, and the population is unable to rely on the knowledge of health centres. People’s knowledge of health and disease has increased dramatically, and this has contributed to the development of health care in the direction of special care. The municipalities, the owners and organisers of health centres, have only been left with the share of paying men. Health centres have developed into running-through places, and it has been difficult to plan their finances, especially in the case of small municipalities. Equality in health care has also disappeared: a well-being and money-rich population uses relatively low-cost private services, while a weaker population is forced to resort to health centres, the weakest part of them not even when customer fees have been towed to a very high level over the decades. And you can't even get to a doctor. If you do, it takes time before you get to special studies — social services and health care information systems do not work together; in the municipality another official does not know what the other person does, breaks and overlaps in the treatment chains. Mr President! There is enough reason for social reform in these areas. Its basic objectives have been repeated many times here today and I am not going to repeat them. But in this context it is particularly natural that regional reform should also be carried out at the same time. At the same time, a broad-grained organiser will be provided for social welfare and health care, and a fragmented jigsaw puzzle of municipalities, joint municipal authorities and the state administration will be gathered in the regions. The regional councils have so far been very small-scale, mainly project fund-sharers, and their administration has not been very democratic. Mr President! In five minutes, no 1002 page package will be produced, so only a few critical comments on the package are available :1 ) What will happen to the remotest areas in the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u260	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Vehviläinen for prioritising this referral debate and for listening to these speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u263	Mr President! When it comes to litter, we talk above all about good care for people without queues, regardless of the size of the wallet or the postal code. To ensure that this common objective can be achieved, we must also talk about structures. It does not matter what structure is created. This is a reform that will affect decades to come. The Greens sign the social welfare records of Sipilä's Government Programme, both the objectives of the reform and the way in which the reform itself is implemented in the Government Programme. However, the Greens do not sign the government's proposal on freedom of choice. There are also significant problems in the Regional Structure Act that I raised during the period of the debat. Mr President! Since so many times in this Chamber has already been referred to as freedom of choice today, so...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u266	Mr President! The reform of social and health services is needed and its objectives are important: to secure good services throughout the country, to reduce health inequalities and to invest in early intervention and strengthening primary health care. When a person quickly receives help and is not bounced from one door to another, the need for heavier, corrective services decreases. So the services must be integrated into a functional whole. The government model threatens to turn services into a market for multinational companies. Anyone who organises the services must take care of good health services, which must, as a rule, be public production. This is because we can guarantee the quality of public health care and improve the shortcomings. Where necessary, public health care can be complemented by purchasing services, for example in situations where medical queues have grown too long. I would also think it reasonable that some social services should remain in the municipalities. For example, the care of the elderly could still be left to the municipalities so that it does not get caught up in the reform. It now seems that the reform of the government is so great that there is a risk of transition chaos. Government proposal brings mammoth subscriber-producer organisations. They bring the dim and administrative bureaucracy. The public service is coercioned in the name of freedom of choice. This is unacceptable. The company form and its business secrets are not suitable for public service. Public health care should not be demolished, as a private monopoly will only cost money. Obligation and ideological freedom of choice must be abandoned. The involvement of small enterprises as service providers can be ensured by providing the customer with a service voucher as an alternative to a public service. People who often need services could, through personal budgeting, choose services that are suitable for themselves. A disabled person should decide for himself who to live with and where to live. Public services must be in good shape, with many weak and sick people who are unable to make choices and compare service providers. Many social services are also local services and their organisation would be clearer in smaller production areas, especially in the large province of Uusimaa. Examples of these services include home care and its support services, as well as institutional and housing services for the elderly. In demanding social services, such as disability services and child protection, it can be assumed that higher production areas bring knowledge and equity to the availability of services. There is a particular need for successful integration in the services of children and young people, as the key to the service of children is an early grip and easy access to the service. Small customers need services immediately and easily. The services of child health clinics can be developed increasingly in line with the needs of children and families. The increase in e-services will help the outermost regions, but there must also be innovative solutions for meeting people, such as in-service experts and multi-service buses. A person must be at the heart of the reform and as an interest in dealing with the reasonableness of costs, the quality and availability of services, and the welfare and health effects of services. In the future, municipalities will be responsible at least for early childhood education, day care, basic education, planning, land policy, housing policy, integration, culture, sports and youth activities. The government does not seem to have thought about how municipalities can cope with these important services as the income base narrows. When the social services are transferred to the regions, large debts and numerous non-use properties remain in the municipalities, and the tax base will be lower in the future. The government must resolve this fairly for the municipalities. The change must also listen to workers, involve them in the change and ensure the rights of municipal workers. In the case of Uusimaa, extensive preparatory work is under way when considering the best model for Uusimaa. The government must now listen to experts so that in time we can change the direction of social welfare reform for the better for the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u267	Värderade Herr Talman! Åland has already carried out a social welfare reform, and health care is a legislative competence of Åland. Health care in Åland is paid 100% of Åland's own money. Therefore, the reform should not have an impact on Åland. In practice, the reform will have a huge impact on Åland, as the entire state's financial system will be changed. The Åland Islands pay taxes to the State just like everyone else. In the current system of self-government, Åland will recover 0.45% of government revenue. Last year, Åland's contribution was 0.71 per cent, which means that the system is a bad trade for Åland because it pays so much tax. However, if Åland pays more than 0.50% of government revenue, it will recover this surplus. This amount is referred to as the tax credit or the hard-earning money. Since Åland pays much more taxes to the state than it has left, this year it will receive EUR 23.9 million in hard-earning money. Åland has long paid more taxes on the Ministry of Finance’s chest than it receives as a lump sum. This is why Åland wants greater economic autonomy and the possibility of living on its own taxes. This is why we are annoyed in Åland when we are sometimes accused in afternoon newspapers and Internet columns of living on state-paid grants. That's not true. We're paying a lot more than we can get back. The Ministry of Finance knows this and has therefore historically been reluctant to extend the economic autonomy of Åland. I am therefore pleased that Minister Berner raised this issue in last autumn's budget debate and proposed an increase in Åland's lump sum. This is because, as a result of the rapid population growth in Åland, the lump sum is constantly decreasing per capita. The Ministry of Finance proposes that Åland reduce the lump sum in exchange for the reduction in Åland. However, Parliament cannot change the lump sum without the consent of the provincial days. The solution between the State and Åland must therefore be negotiated first. Åland certainly wants to be involved in the search for a workable solution, but despite the wishes and contacts made to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry has not taken the necessary time to discuss the matter. The first meeting between Åland and the Ministry of Finance will take place next week, but the proposal is already in Parliament. I'm really sorry. I'm really sorry. If the government had only discussed these issues from the outset, everything could have been right at once. I therefore recommend that the Government withdraws its proposal on the basis of the balancing criterion for the new preparation after discussions with the Government of the Åland Islands have taken place. It is only a very small matter in the whole reform, and it is included in a separate law that does not affect other parts of the reform. So it's easy to pull back. A few words about Åland's reduction and lump sum: For Åland, some things have to be in order to introduce the reduction in Åland as a temporary solution. If the reduction in Åland is introduced, it must receive the same self-government protection as the current lump sum. It is not possible to reduce the lump sum, which requires Åland's consent, in order to obtain Åland's reduction, which could then be changed by Parliament alone. This is hardly what Åland’s provincial days will agree to because it weakens the current self-government. Therefore, self-government protection must be included in any reduction in Åland. For hard-working money — or tax credit, as it is officially called —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u268	Mr President! We have in our hands perhaps the most important, the most extensive, government proposal for the reform of the social and health services and the province. It is a huge entity, and so it requires a great deal of precision on our part. In the question of how to ensure high-quality social and health services for all people, citizens' empowerment and the vitality of the regions, everyone is in fact intertwined in this bill. In the future, strong provinces will be responsible for organising social and health services, so that their resources and professionals may also be better managed locally and planned as a whole. I hope so. And the objective is to improve the accessibility of services and to increase choice. At the moment, not many people have actually been able to choose their services and do not necessarily need to do so in the future. There are public operators in the repertoire, there are companies, there are third sector operators, and no one is left without services. If you do not want to make that choice yourself, then the nearest social centre will be shown. Mr President! It is important that the government now has a common vision of how this large and massive package will be handled. The law, which has also been discussed a great deal today, along with these 1002 pages, namely the question of freedom of choice legislation, is now to be adopted until the end of the month, and hopefully it will have good perspectives and opinions and feedback. Freedom of choice is not an absolute value to the centre; it is one way to achieve one of the objectives of social reform and, as has been said, there will certainly be adjustments to these laws. It is also important, of course, that smaller third sector services also become potential producers with freedom of choice. What is important, of course, is that care should be available on time, prevention, which has been discussed a great deal, and it is precisely the shift from special care to that basic level that I hope will take place now. Unfortunately, this has not been the case so far, namely that the municipalities have generally received a bill from the hospital district, that there are now so many million and so many million people who have not been able to influence them in practice. But in this reform, there will finally be a democratic model in which the province will decide on these services. And as has been said here during the debate, further preparation and development ideas on how taxation should be developed are in preparation. There have been many fears that supranational tax haven companies are now entering our social services market. They are subject to a very strict law. It is the same law for everyone else to pay taxes to Finland as a producer. These are public companies, the rules governing public companies, and they are covered by the Publicity Act. And the social security service provider is obliged to indicate where the tax euros are paid — control remains. We must not create a monopoly market for a few companies in Finland, and we will stick to that. The Centre assumes that the potential of small and medium-sized third-sector organisations should be good, and this will also contribute to the work. Mr President! We may no longer be able to afford this parliamentary term to stumble and not to make this biggest reform of the century — such a huge issue. We want the differences between welfare and health to narrow, people to receive care, get to it in time, the costs to be kept in check, access to services to be equal, equal and also more democratic. I'm sure they'll work on the details. I would like to conclude by saying that last year the International Assessment Panel evaluated the government's proposals at that stage, involved experts from WHO, OECD, European universities, and also according to the panel:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u269	Mr President! The legislative reform of regional and social welfare and health care will shift responsibility to wider shoulders. The Ståhlberg Constitution already had its place in 1919 for the intermediate administration. Why, then, the reform of social welfare and health care, is also asked by many international experts. According to a European European Health 2015 consumer survey, Finland receives the best value for money from healthcare. At the same time, quality is at the top of Europe’s cancer care and specialised medical care, and citizens value Finland’s health care functionally in the fourth place among 35 countries. Our problem is poor functioning primary health care, and you can't get to your doctor on the same day. The key objectives of the social welfare reform are to improve access to the services needed by the citizen, to coordinate them strongly, to move towards a single channel of funding and to increase the freedom of choice of the citizen in the services. At present, the citizen in our country can choose the provider of basic services widely and the provider of special care services from the public sector, together with the sending doctor. Mr President! A distinction must be made between the organisation of social welfare and health care and the provision of services. The regional business organisation is part of the regional organisation, but it is functionally and economically differentiated within the province in accordance with future legislation. The company acts not only as a service provider but also as a public authority, often as a gatekeeper. The gatekeeper function also manages costs and keeps the grounds for care consistent. The regional business office also provides residents with public social and health services where they are not otherwise available. For example, if there are no other service providers in a remote region, the province is also entitled to determine the minimum number of services to be provided by a private service provider. The question is whether citizens are equal to the availability and quality of services. Can it be ensured that service packages that ensure productivity and save costs will be implemented in the future and that service chains operate as agreed? Is this also the case for private or public service providers if we do not have compatible customer information systems even within health care, let alone reporting systems linking health care and social care? How can a client-centred care and service plan be drawn up and how to provide feedback to the responsible patient manager without a single file? In addition, the strategy for social and health care services must take into account the matching of services of customer choice and other social and health services so that the services needed by customers form an appropriate whole. Mr President! The law on the provision of social and health care services aims to ensure the safety of the customer and the patient, as well as good quality services. The aim is also to promote entrepreneurship by reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. According to the draft Act, authorisation and notification practices that depend on existing service providers' operating methods will be abandoned. Instead, we will move towards a uniform registration of all service providers and effective self-monitoring based on trust between the service provider and the authority. Therefore, customer-oriented integration of services is required and responsibility for allocating costs by customer base is assumed for the region, taking into account the use and quality of services in the multi-producer model. As I said earlier, there is currently a major lack of integrated reporting systems in the area of social welfare and health care. We have no national compatibility at all. Since 2007, there has been binding legislation. Now is the last time to succeed in this objective of legislation. The Kanta Information System maintained by Kela is a functionally archive system and is not as such suitable for the active clinical use of professionals. The stock includes excellent sections for patients’ access to their own information, their own database and the electronic, well-functioning prescription section. Now it is urgent to start building a service bus-type platform in Finland alongside the base platform in order to ensure that professionals are informed and the same system can be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u270	Mr President! We all agree that social reform is essential. This is a century of reform that needs to be done in order to ensure the availability of services throughout the country, to reduce health and well-being inequalities, to improve the equality of those in need and to curb the increase in costs. The reform of the war has been carried out for a long time and with a great deal of diligence by several governments. A lot of people are already full of all the dirt. However, it is a bad reason to raise your hands and accept the present proposed social solution as such. It is foolish to make a model that is already born with dwindling defects and great risks. In the process of social reform, other political agents of the parties will easily take precedence. That's what happened this time, too. The Centre linked its objectives to the reform with the creation of regional government, the assembly of large-scale choice and the opening of the health market. These side agents have now defined the whole content of the reform and, at the same time, the most important person in need of help and care has been excluded. There are several legislative packages in connection with the Sote reform. Now we are dealing with the first. Although the much criticised government proposal on freedom of choice will come into this Chamber later, it is clear that the proposal now before us has been built in such a way that it already establishes a wide-ranging freedom of choice. All three legislative proposals for social welfare reforms should be submitted at the same time. It is good in this proposal that the organisation of social services should be on the wider agenda. Provinces are stronger than municipalities, and the municipality will no longer affect the kind of assistance and care they receive in the future. However, the differences between regions are large in terms of population, economic carrying capacity and the functioning of the social services market. Since it is already widely said that in the future the number of social areas will be less than the 18 that is now being proposed, why on earth was this solution not made right away? From the point of view of the smooth running of the welfare care chains, it is good that the number of organisers is decreasing. At the other end of the chain, i.e. the number of producers, there is a multiplication. This does not serve the smooth functioning of the care chain and the coordination of social and health services, on the contrary: services are fragmented across a wide range of actors, and total management risks disappearing. Mr President! The proposal is about to create an independent provincial administration. However, it remains a torso, for the regions lack the right to tax. The government will give you the money and the binding instructions. It is true that decision-makers are directly elected in the regions. Unfortunately, these decision-makers are left with little to decide on when service production is incorporated and thus their decision-making powers run out of the reach of the council and the state can decide on behalf of the province on the service network and investments. The regional reform was brought about in a hurry and through the Prime Minister's threats. It has progressed so far under the social ware that everything else related to it has been left quite dark. Some of the tasks are rapidly disappearing, such as the fact that in the future some government or provincial body will monitor the legality of municipal land-use decisions. Mr President! In future, municipalities will be responsible for promoting well-being. It is an important task that has so far been too often left to the speeches. However, the question arises as to how municipalities are encouraged when investing in well-being is not directly reflected in their own economy as reduced care costs. The legislation should therefore have stronger obligations and structures for cooperation and partnership between municipalities and regions. The big question mark is the future financing base of municipalities. How is the remaining municipal tax revenue sufficient to cover service needs? In particular, the municipalities that have now provided a wide range of services to the needs of the region as a whole and bear the greatest responsibility for the unemployed in the region. Equally difficult is the situation in growth municipalities, which should increase services and infrara to the needs of the growing population. The financing model should take into account the different needs of the municipalities, especially as we know that the municipalities' own borrowing and repayment capacity will be weakened when half of turnover is transferred to the regions and the debts will be fully paid. The problem is exacerbated by the real estate mass remaining in the ownership of municipalities, the need for which decisions will be taken by the provincial administration in the future. Mr President! Finally, I would like to remind you of what the reform of the social economy started to achieve. It was intended to: (1) reduce health and welfare inequalities; (2) improve equal access to services across the country; (3) reduce the sustainability gap in public finances. Unfortunately, this bill does not meet these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u271	Mr President! Regional and social reform is an historic reform. Twenty - five years ago, the unions of the province and the regional alliances were merged. It was good and required by EU membership. After that, at the end of the 1990s, five major provinces were formed. It was an unfortunate decision that cost a lot of money and was overturned some ten years later, when the avities and lifes were established. The Best Project was launched in 2005 at this time in the Government spending limits debate. It did not produce much fruit, some associations of municipalities and associations of vocational educational associations. The ‘Best’ project did not include a significant improvement in the case of social welfare. During the last parliamentary term, attempts were made, mainly under the leadership of the Social Democrats, to create social reform, but it did not succeed, and now we are in this situation. Fortunately, we now have a government that works and also makes the civil service make proposals. Now we have that package of over a thousand pages of this basic model. It corresponds to the model proposed by the Finns of Finland in 2012, the model of the municipality—district, the name is the regional model, because it has its traditions and we already have the meaning of the provinces, so it is all right. 18 provinces have a natural number and division. It may be that it will decrease over time, but now it is the starting point. The provinces guarantee broad shoulders and elections bring democracy. It is wise to bring together various activities under a democratically managed provincial government, and that is what will happen here. The administration's getting lighter. For example, when we in Central Finland end up with about 30 social services and rescue services and other institutions and replace one, it is a significant change in the administration. At present, there are approximately 450 trusted persons as actual representatives and around 100 after the reform. The fragmented system is not in anyone's hands at the moment. It is therefore surprising that there is still a longing for large-scale joint municipal authorities. There democracy does not work: it is indirect and the municipalities are completely running boys, paying bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u274	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the ministers Vehviläinen and Ruhula, we have been here for six hours and you are still looking well. There is still a debate ahead of us, but it is very nice that you are here, that we are doing the biggest thing in this parliamentary term. The debate has been complex, and in that initial debate it was said and criticised that some magic trick or trick is being done here and that an attempt is being made to cut EUR 3 billion from the social and health expenditure of Finland, which is already greyening. This package of laws is not intended to cut but to cut the billions of these social and health expenditure, which are constantly rising very strongly, so that by 2030 the growth angle will be reduced by 3 billion less than the current expenditure. How does that come about? The structures are being modified so that we can better provide people with health advice, support their health choices, support social and health centres that are close to people, that people get better access to doctors and other experts so that those people have time, skills and the opportunity to provide them with the services they need in the moment. There has been a great deal of concern and talk about freedom of choice for today's topic. That legislation will come later this spring and we will be able to deal with it at the same time as this legislative package we are debating today. There may have been some mockery of what this freedom of choice brings, for example, to Ilomants or some other small, isolated municipality. Perhaps — and so I can say — the people in the provinces are accustomed to the fact that we do not have that freedom of choice to a very large extent, but we can rejoice in the fact that, in the context of this social package, which we are discussing today, this will ensure that we have the medical services, health centre services, social services on the wider shoulders. That is our pleasure in this package. In this way, I believe that at local level, with local services, we will also be able to meet people with special medical care of a higher quality. People do not take taxi rides to the central hospital, but in the services that make sense to provide close to a person, the doctor goes close to a person. In the other year, if I remember correctly, the taxi rides paid by Kela amounted to EUR 156 million. Fewer have improved in the back seat of the taxi, some births will certainly come each year, but actually no one has. It makes sense for the province to have a common purse, not to be able to apply for money for these taxi rides separately in the future, but when all these social and health care expenses go out of the same purse, then it is reasonable to think about which services are better organised in such a way that they are close to people, in the form of a person, or in the form of ict services that are so much developed, that they can also be seen and met by a professional through the terminal. But, Mr President, what is the government going to do about this health promotion? Over the years, I have been able to talk about this at every turn. After all, a disease that has been prevented is the best disease in the sense that it is not absent from anyone, saves and brings well-being. Indeed, Mr President, almost EUR 250 million will be allocated to municipalities and regions each year to promote well-being and health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u275	Mr President! As has been said in many speeches, we are now on the verge of historic reform. A third democratic level is being created in Finland, the provinces to which the municipal council is elected, and social and health care is being transferred to them, to the responsibility of organisation, and certainly also to the regional organisation itself, the business organisation, which will also bear the main responsibility for producing it. But this reform has not been made, nor is it done for the provinces or for the system, but for the Finnish people and for the future that it will be possible to secure adequate services for all Finns. In my view, what illustrates this is that page 647 of this huge package of laws has also been mentioned in the ranking review at the title level: 'The need for reform to ensure equal services'. I remember very well from the last parliamentary term when in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we went through a couple of times with the social reform that was then, and it was not the first time that we tried to reform these services in Finland. At the time, the central point to which the recent Mets of reform fell was this democracy. The municipalities would have financed it, the provinces would have been involved in it, but this system was then not made to work on the timetable so that it could have passed the screening of the Constitution. It must also be said that this proposal is certainly not perfect either. I am sure that when we talk about such a massive package, there will be problems that will be noticed in practice. But you can say that the best is the worst enemy of good. If we wait for the perfect model, we can wait until the end of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u278	Mr President! This is now a major reform in the hands of Parliament, and I must say that this government will do what it promises, and quite quickly. So this kind of reform has been brought here for us to handle quite a bit on schedule. I would assume that everything that is essential to say on this matter has already been said and that all the best misunderstandings have already been misunderstood and even understood, and I will focus on something that might be new in some way. A few comments on the speeches. I myself come from a region where this type of social welfare solution, i.e. a fully integrated social and health area, has been in use for years, e.g. Eksote and South Karelia. There the staff have already moved to the district, and many of these things have already been done, which would now be done in many other places. The experience of this has been very good and, in fact, now, with this regional reform, certain things are moving in the better direction in this model that we have used. When decisions have been taken on the basis of joint municipal authorities, that democracy has been quite questionable in some respects, I would say, due to party buffing, because that is where the seats have been divided into local government quotas which do not necessarily correspond to contributions. Some municipalities have gained disproportionate weight. Certain people have gathered there who may not have had the best relations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u283	Mr President! Today there is a large package of legislation in the referral debate to push forward the reform of the social and regional sectors. The objective of the Sote reform is the availability of equal services throughout Finland, and of course the aim of this reform is also to achieve savings of EUR 3 billion by the end of the next decade. These objectives are indeed ambitious, but they are also necessary both from the point of view of the growing service needs of the ageing population and the economic sustainability of our country. At the beginning of 2019, 18 regions will be assigned a number of tasks, including rescue services, environmental health care, regional development, management of the use and construction of areas, and employment and economic services. The promotion of well-being and health remains for municipalities, although they are deprived of a significant part of their current tasks. Approximately half of the statutory tasks of municipalities are transferred to regions, with an average of 57 per cent of municipal expenditure. In the same context, the income tax rate of municipalities will be reduced by approximately 12.5 percentage points and changes will be made to the central government income tax scale. In the event of a change, it must be ensured that no one is subject to increased income tax. The change in the surplus or deficit resulting from the change for municipalities is limited to EUR 100 per capita over a transitional period of four years. Thus, the economic position of municipalities does not change very much in this respect, but of course they must ensure that the economic balance is achieved well before the reform takes place. Transfers of assets from municipalities and joint municipal boards to regions shall be carried out in such a way that transfers do not cause problems at municipal level. A solution must also be found for unused buildings during further preparation. With this reform, a few hundred joint municipal authorities and a number of other institutions will be dismantled. The elected representatives of the provinces will be elected by democratic elections, which is a very great improvement compared to the current system. This positive point was also noted earlier in Mrs Saarakkala’s group statement by the Finns. Of course, the most important things for the public are faster access to treatment and better care. They are the desirable outcome of the reform. From the point of view of ordinary people, structures are a side-effect. Of course, citizens also appreciate the cost-effectiveness of service production, which this reform aims to achieve. This requires significant structural reforms compared to the current system. Fortunately, the views of organisations have also been taken into account in the context of the social welfare reform, which is reflected, among other things, in the introduction of the personal budgeting desired by the organisations of people with disabilities. Mr President! Freedom of choice is a sound principle, provided that the operating conditions of small service providers are ensured. The market economy is good in other parts of society. Even in spite of the criticisms that have been expressed here, an effective freedom of choice would be an important step towards equality in health care, where even low-income people have the opportunity to choose suitable service providers at a reasonable cost. Service centres will also be set up to facilitate the organisation of support services. Effective IT services bring significant savings compared to the current system. I know this because I have been familiar with health information systems in my past profession. As Mr Mäkelä pointed out earlier, the sector has been plagued by fragmentation. In this context, it is an opportunity to significantly reduce the amount of information and to make it run in a cost-effective manner. Mr President! The citizens are tired of the years of war. It is high time that the reform was brought to an end with honour. Unfortunately, it was not successful during the last parliamentary term, despite a tough attempt. This time the reform must be carried through with ambition and determination by filling any shortcomings in the legislative proposals that may still exist during the committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u284	Mr President! Indeed, in many ways, there is an important historical presentation in the proceedings. This is the biggest reform in the Finnish public sector. This is a reform whose objectives each party represented in this Chamber has committed itself to. Every party has understood, at least sometimes, that the fragmented, bureaucratic and multi-channel-funded package of social and health services currently in use in the context of the ageing of the population needs to be reformed so that we can also provide citizens with the quality of social and health services they need in the 2020s and 2030s. That is why today, Mr President, when the mammoth proposal of about a thousand pages has finally been submitted to this Chamber, the criticism of the red-green opposition in particular has been extraordinary throughout the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u287	Mr President! The reform of regions and the provision of social and health care services under discussion is certainly one of the biggest reforms of Finland's independence, if not the biggest. The legislation on the creation of provinces is an important issue and I believe that it will also be given a sensible framework with the new law, and, of course, in the committee's deliberations that law will still have to be filed. The same applies to the law on the organisation of health care. It is clear that Finland also needs reform in health services, and the province as an organisation is big enough to take responsibility and organise health services. Eighteen provinces have a sufficient package. The establishment of regional government is a good thing. It is only regrettable that, in a way, the regional reform is a little under way when the provinces do not have the right to tax and, therefore, the State's money is then the one that solves the game. If the cash taps close, the province will face financial difficulties and will be subject to the same articles on crisis municipal procedure that many municipalities in Finland have already experienced. Being in the position of a torpedo is not nice if you happen to be a bad host. Then there are a few things about the reform of social welfare and health care: So that nobody thinks I'm against the other side: I'm in favour of reforms. It's the only way to move on. But in the course of the reform, the following points must be taken into account and, as Mr Savio mentioned in his speech, this is a matter for the committee. Unfortunately, the development of primary health care in Finland ended in the late 1990s and the early 2000s. All the stakes were concentrated on large centres and construction of central hospitals. In my municipality of Joensuu, North Karelia, there is a good example of this: A central hospital has been built in Tikkamäki. It'll be ready when the property runs out. You can't build any more, but there have been houses there, and the health services in the provinces have, to put it mildly, weakened. The big problem with reform, however, is the terrible fact that this is centralising the system with certainty, with regional centres and rural communities as losers. A few things about it: In practice, freedom of choice applies only to large cities. I am not yet able to believe with this supervision that in small rural municipalities there will be competition for services. I don't think so. There is no doubt that money and decision-making power are also in the major centres in this case. This has been the case with all the reforms during the membership of the European Union in Finland. This is a cold fact, and anyone who insists otherwise will be able to prove his point. Municipalities lose two thirds of their tax revenues, which in practice means that poor economic communities are facing a very rapid crisis procedure and their existence ceases to exist. When debts are left behind and liabilities are left behind and the social welfare properties are emptied, you know that with small money no one handles the package. Everyone in their own economy can test what happens by putting two thirds of their income out. Bioeconomy and other growth industries need social and health services and are then available throughout Finland. That is why I am in favour of reform, but I hope that this situation in rural communities will be taken seriously in committee. Good services are needed in Ilomantsi as well as in Utsjoki. There's no difference. After all, this was the great idea of the whole social welfare reform, and we have to hold on to it. We've got to hold on to the starting point. With freedom of choice, large multinationals will certainly take over the market. After all, they are capable of, among other things, tax evasion, which is something a small company in the habit will never be able to do. I hope that these small companies, which operate in the provinces, will also be able to compete for these services in the spirit of the procurement law. The supranational corporations have such huge balance sheets... Among other things, the two largest Swedes, in which money from the Wallenberg family, among others, is affected, are able to make such a impression that small Finnish entrepreneurs will never be able to do so. They may be tempted to make an offer that is underpriced in order to get competitors out of the market. The second thing is to take care of the emergency services. There are already major problems with emergency services in rural areas today, and I hope, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that serious attention will be paid to this matter. If the on-call matter is not properly handled, it means lowering the level of medical care, and, for example, in acute care, it means that people in rural communities are at greater risk of life, for example in the event of a blood clot than those living in the city, and this is not right. I also see the issue of democracy as a problem because decision-making powers are transferred to provincial centres and it is a big decision-maker with the largest voting power and a large amount of money. In democracy, of course, this has been solved, but it's just that it's big.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u288	Mr President! I would also like to begin by thanking the ministers who are persistently sitting and listening to our views, which is important for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly one of those who, though most vehemently in this group, would like solutions to be found, because a certain amount of work was also done last season on this common big clay. As Minister Rehula is smiling, it is true that this bill actually has a lot of ground on it the previous time, last season, for the bill that was here. Unfortunately, some major changes have been made, but quite a lot of the work we did last time, last season, for Parliament, has also been used in this government's proposal. Yes, you can say that I'm still upset that we didn't make it to the finish line. That statement by the Constitutional Committee last season meant that uncertainty has continued for both social workers and users of services. I share the concern that has already been expressed here many times about how we can keep skilled staff involved in this work, to involve them in this work if the solutions continue to be extended. It is true that our system needs reform. It is just as true that this is not the easiest way to tick on any government. Here are the very strong lobbyes behind us, who are demanding their own contribution to any matter at all, and this whole social war would have been solved if it had been easy, but let us hope that solutions can be found. So it takes a lot of war, but it's not just any kind of war. As I have already said in that debate, Mr President, my main concern is whether the objectives of the government itself will be achieved on this important issue. In other words, if the services of citizens are to be implemented sensibly in such a small country as Finland, so that we have enough skilled staff and that the money is sufficient, it is absolutely essential that we use the word 'integration'. As many experts have said, it is precisely the fact that this model, which the government is offering here, will not be able to achieve these objectives, but, on the contrary, this jungle of actors will be quite a jungle, and it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to manage it. As Jussi Huttunen, for example, has said in one presentation, this is in a way a leap into the unknown. And at this point, I would of course like to see the possibility for Parliament to reconsider those parts of this proposal which move in the direction that this integration process may not be fully realised. Moreover, it is also essential for the citizen if the doors increase greatly: what does it mean from the point of view of those who need and use a lot of services? And I also find it quite problematic — if forced-to-carrying is to be done — that democracy is going to run off to these forced-to-carry companies rather easily behind the screens that, in fact, that provincial government will only become a rubber stamp similar to what someone here described in the present form of joint municipal authorities. Nor do I think it makes sense when we look at the way in which people today rely on democratic systems, not only here in Finland but elsewhere. President! I would like to finish by saying my main concerns: Will integration take place? Can we take care of many sick, poor people? Is there any way that we can get to the knowledge of management, in which these systems also keep up with us in some way? What will happen to regional inequality, which is partly true today — can we tackle it with this model? I think it is particularly important that we ensure that the crown jewel of our current system, or special medical care, works. It is accompanied by this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u289	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk and strong talk here today. There was talk of a historic, major reform that is progressing on schedule. It is a fine indication of what the government has actually been able to do under this heavy pressure, something that has been experienced on the ground every day when talking to the public about this. Of course, there has been a bit of an incomprehensible atmosphere in this Chamber today, when everyone is probably in agreement about the need for reform, but the way in which, or the wordings, there are even intimidations and demands for interruptions, and these are the unfortunate things that the citizens who have followed our debate there are wondering and wondering whether this has been properly raised and how this is being criticised. Of course, criticism is allowed and that must be the case, but we are, however, moving forward with a reform in which there is actually a person at the heart of the matter, the customer, and no more administration. This will also significantly clarify the administration and bring the reform that actually makes it possible to every citizen now. Hopefully, this problem of freedom of choice can also be resolved in such a way that it is also possible to commit itself to it in every peninsula and squirming Finland. This will also bring democracy in such a way that this will strengthen direct democracy and decision-making for citizens there close to man. It is a very important issue today, too, when we talk about who decides our affairs at that local level. It's all right. It's a model. It must also always be remembered that, here too, the freedom of reconciliation will come to the provinces and also in relation to the ministries. That there are many extremely good elements here. Of course, we must also remember that the preparatory situation in the various provinces has progressed at different levels, and that is why I am at least concerned about whether this criticism has been over-cultivated in those provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u290	Mr President! This legal basis for the organisation of social welfare and health care has already been prepared during several parliamentary periods and in very colorful stages, as has been said many times in the debate today. Preparations have been made by many governments, and all parliamentary parties have at least at some point been closely involved in the preparations. Now we have in our hands the best proposal so far on how to organise social and health services in the future, ensuring high-quality and efficient local services in our ageing country. For hours now, I have listened to colleagues' speeches here with somewhat contradictory feelings. During the last parliamentary term, I think all parties agreed that reform was needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u293	Mr President! As has been said many times today, we are moving towards historic reform. We are working on the most important project for the development of municipal administration and municipal service production, whether it is something, in 1865 or something like that. The previous major reform project was undoubtedly the Kainuu administrative experiment launched in 2005, whereby primary health care from municipalities and special care from the hospital district was transferred to the same joint municipal group as the provincial administration. I myself will also assess this current reform in a number of ways from the point of view of Kainuu's administrative experiment. I myself said in the summer of 2006, that 1.5 years after the start of the regional experiment, that a similar solution works throughout Finland, and the further the Kainuu administrative experiment progressed, the more sure I was that this same type of approach in war, regional development and so on works in the whole country. We too would have liked to have been guided by the political direction of the regional government of the state at that time. We did not succeed, but now we are going further than Kainuu in this respect. Of course, the content of social and health care at this time in this national social welfare reform is somewhat different from what it was in Kainuu, but on the basis of these experiences, what I have, I am absolutely convinced that this reform is the right one. It's necessary. The Sote reform will also secure the necessary services for the long future, and the regional reform will then create more vitality. It is quite clear that the regions themselves know best what is the right way to develop their own province and what is best. It is now necessary to give the provinces a chance to move forward. As has been said, many provinces have already made very good progress in this respect, the staff are involved, the reforms and preparations are very much parliamentary, large-scale, so it is essential that these reforms should now be brought forward here – of course, in such a way that these potential problems, which perhaps exist in this social reform, must be addressed. I am also convinced that 18 provinces are the right basis for these reforms. There has been some discussion today as to whether these provinces are now too much. After all, these 18 provinces have now been founded almost on the basis of hospital districts, so it can also be thought that this integration is based very strongly on the basis of special medical care and basic health care in these current provinces, but it is also a very far-reaching question of what this perspective is. If the number of these regions is assessed from the point of view of basic medical care, then the number of these regions is certainly quite the right one — these will give wider shoulders to basic health care — but then, from the point of view of special medical care, it is clear that not all regions are large enough for special medical care, and that is why this cooperation between the regions has been included in the social welfare reform, which in Northern Finland, for example, is voluntarily progressing at an excellent rate. Then, President, very briefly: It has also been discussed here during the day whether the elements of the provincial self-government will be implemented. There is a suspicion that when the county tax is missing, it is a problem for self-government. I agree, of course, but it must also be borne in mind that the provinces are now being given universal funding, which will then have a decision-making power, the directly elected provincial councils, the provinces have the right to decide on the organisation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u294	Mr President! This is where the speech was made a moment ago that not all parties are looking for social reform. I just don't know what the parties are who don't want a social reform because of the fact that the eight party teams that were in the last season were all in agreement, and I've never seen any party cancel this idea. The second thing is that we have a different way of thinking about it. We are still among the seven who wanted it to be based on public services. That's when all the group wanted was the private side of it. To make it clear now: the Social Democrats want a social welfare reform. Our difference with the current government model is that in our own thinking our model is the same as that of Hannes Manninen and Kimmo Sasi, which can be done on the basis of the municipal law. We have a municipal law that would be a much lighter system than setting up a separate regional government law. In any event, there would be elections, in any event, there would be financial, tax, and in any event there would be decision-making power in the region's own affairs so that a decision could be taken by common accord with the municipality in which the service is provided. This is simply a model of social democrats. — But this is not now being proposed, but is being presented as a regional model, which, for the most part, privatizes these services once the public services have been coerced. So, in our model, the organiser and the producer would not be expelled or forced-on. It has been discussed this evening that the number of these administrative actors will be considerably reduced by moving away from around 400 to 18. Yes, as far as the wars are concerned, but I guess no party is ending the municipalities. Although municipalities will not be responsible for the war in the future, the municipalities still exist, so that it does not administratively lose the municipality. It is responsible for health promotion, education, technical activities and everything else, so that we do not lose administratively in this area other than the hospital districts and other joint municipal authorities that have been established at the moment. But there are no 400, so you have to stick to something like this in a more honest model. There are currently practical problems in the preparation process. Among other things, all provincial leaders have criticised and sent statements to the Government, the Government, that the money is not enough. A substantial increase in the workforce would be needed to prepare for this. The government's target would have been 400,000 in preparation for this year. I know nothing more than one province, called Kymenlaakso, whose cost for this year is 2 million, and I have little doubt that in our province the municipalities want to pay it 2 million because they are building a province. And because of this, it takes so much to prepare, Uusimaa is in a very difficult situation. Then this compulsory company is not only linked to these provincial companies, where therefore normal, special care or normal, ordinary health centers are coercive, but it is also linked to these national service centres. The provinces have no choice. The provinces must participate in these companies, which mean real estate, staff, ict. So the provinces are not allowed to make decisions. About what? Do they do HR, payroll, or what else? We have to do it through this company. With regard to purchases, fortunately, a solution was found to open up Hansel's legislation, so that procurement can also be supported on the part of the State to the provinces or through municipal procurement. But this coercion was also linked to this control at the national level. And I doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that when we have a Senate number two to which all these buildings are transferred, then hopefully its revenue targets will not be the same as those of this Senate number one, which is now becoming quite expensive for the government. [The President knocks ] Perhaps I will come back to this in a moment, but I will say one thing, Mr President. This will mean hundreds of agreements: between provinces, between provinces and municipalities, between provinces and the state. On one occasion we asked Tuomas Pöyst how much we currently have in this area of contract experts who will then be able to make this legislative framework so that those agreements are valid. Maybe a dozen, I think, were the answer. Unfortunately, hundreds of them are needed if we are to be able to deal with this jungle of agreements in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u295	Let us take one reply. Congressman Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u296	Thank you, Mr President. I was left with this excellent speech by Mr Paatero and this SDP regional model to think how it is going to happen in practice. In other words, social services would be transferred to one of the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u297	Mr President! Long queues, customer bounces, unequal access to services and quality are unfortunately commonplace in social and health services. They pay not only a human price but also an economic price every day — that is why reform is necessary. But the big difference between the policy of the SDP and the SOS Government is the relationship with the public sector. The SDP’s line is that the cornerstone of the reform is public services financed from common tax resources, which can be complemented by private services. The government is marketing the social welfare reform to citizens in the name of freedom of choice until it revealed that freedom of choice requires the incorporation of services. There is a risk that the model will benefit the most well-off and well-paid, while the low-income and high-income contributors will pay. The seamless care chains of services also threaten to be overshadowed by competition. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, massive privatisation of treatment was carried out by bourgeois parties. At the end of last year, a study by Svenska Dagbladet on the costs of the social welfare reform in Stockholm was published. According to it, the cost of medical care has increased dramatically in sectors which have been liberalised to private competition and in liberalised sectors costs have risen by up to 50 % to 100 % per year, compared with an average cost increase of 4.1 % in those sectors that remain in public health care. In this model, health has been sacrificed to the altar of business. In Finland, public-funded social and health services should not be weakened in the shadow of the reform. When considering the incorporation of companies, it is good to remember the starting points of the Companies Act. The purpose of the company's operations is always to make profits to shareholders. It is clear that private health companies want dividends, but only when they are profitable. However, the public sector would be left with those parts of the services that are not of interest to companies, because their profits are non-existent or even negative. Market logic is essentially linked to profit. The fundamental question is whether public services produced with tax resources should generate profits for a private company. Sote reform has clear objectives: reducing health inequalities, implementing integration, curbing transnational companies and folding costs. Currently, a well-paid, educated man living in a good residential area lives 12 years longer than a man with low incomes and a low level of education. So these health differences are true in today's Finland. A key means of reducing disparities in welfare and health is the integration of social and health services, but the model presented does fragment the services to a wide range of producers and, on the other hand, to a region with organisational responsibilities, which needs to compete for all its basic and specific services. The proposal emphasises the responsibility of producers to integrate services, but leaves it open to practical implementation. It is also very problematic to assess the practical implementation of integration when there is no more detailed information on the whole of freedom of choice. According to expert judgements, the proposed social model can increase costs. At the same time, a significant savings target of 3 billion has been set for the model. On the contrary, there is a risk that costs will increase when new staff, know-how and technology are needed to control producers. In addition, Liisa Hyssälä, who worked for the Social Insurance Institution earlier, estimates that some EUR 1 billion is missing in order to implement freedom of choice. This will inevitably lead to an increase in customer charges and a reduction in the range of services. If this happens, welfare and health inequalities will increase further, leading, for example, to explosive growth in private health insurance. I hope that the government will keep its enthusiasm for public limited liability in health services and will be able to build a viable solution to the long-term future of public service provision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u298	Mr President! Today we are dealing with this historic bill for the establishment of provinces and the organisation of social and health care. The aim of the package is to modernise services and improve the sustainability of public finances, to obtain social and health services at a reasonable price and to curb the increase in costs. After listening to today's debate, I would like to stress that services will continue to be the responsibility of the public sector. In addition to the public sector, the producers can also be private and third sector operators. The key objective of the reform is that people get access to services and treatment and do not have to wait on the waiting list for as long as they are currently able to choose where they want to take their services. I believe that the reform is the right one, and that is just what needs to be done now. It is important to ensure that, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and third sector organisations are able to act as producers in the future. Competition challenges all social services providers to keep the quality and price of services competitive. Monopoly stations do not necessarily encourage this. It is ultimately a question of using our common tax resources. The same money must be used to provide more services. Companying makes activities clearer and brings private and public actors to the same line. Private freedom of choice companies are forced to operate under the same rules as public companies and also bear responsibility for their actions, such as after-care. This reform brings the user of human services and the holder of personal health information to the centre. This reform is being carried out for people. Mr President! Many municipal workers in the social and health care sector are concerned about their own future at the moment. The reform has agreed that the staff will be transferred to the provinces on the basis of the transfer principle. The concern that there will be no work for professionals in the future is, in my view, pointless. Finland’s population is ageing, so there will be an increasing need for skilled and independent professionals across Finland — I believe that in peripheral areas too, far from the centres. I think it is wise now to involve staff in each province to design services in order to make integration truly customer-oriented. Professionals who work at the customer interface have a lot of information that is now worth taking advantage of in planning. There is now going to be a reform which will also contribute to democracy and civic engagement. The regional administration is currently bringing together fragmented tasks carried out by different organisations, and elected regional councillors will continue to ensure the availability and quality of services throughout the region. Municipalities will continue to play an important role in promoting well-being and health. To succeed, it requires close cooperation between the various actors in the municipality. It should be borne in mind that third-sector actors still play an important preventive role in municipalities. Prophylactic work provides major savings for society. Mr President! This reform is also being carried out by people. Let's make this model as good as possible, for the Finns at the moment. But it is already accepted at this stage that the details that do not work will be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u299	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks must be given to the ministers, Mr Ruhula and Mr Vehviläinen. You have already done a huge job at this stage, considering this whole package of laws that we are talking about. I'm glad we're already at this point. There is no privatization, which has been mentioned a great deal here. Nor is the purpose of the social welfare reform. It wants to ensure that the reform does not run into the wall of EU legislation, but that it could go as far as the finish line, which is certainly what most people in this House now want. This is a familiar matter for the opposition, because in the last parliamentary term there was an obligation to include municipal businesses operating on the market. In other words, it must be incorporated, it must be carefully weighed in committee. In the Sote reform, the responsibility for organising is still maintained in the public domain, despite the incorporation process. Any social worker — and I stress this — cannot receive a share of public funding as he does dinner, but strict criteria are becoming the conditions under which services are produced and how much public money can be spent on it. So the reins are in the public organizer, the province, and even though it is claimed otherwise, the spike is not open. Mr President! 18 provinces are more or less the same as the current hospital districts. This will ensure the integration of basic and specialised social services, including: During the last parliamentary term, the then government pursued the same goal for 70 majorities, and we all remember what happened: it failed. There are certainly elections in the area of democracy, the centre is in favour of democracy. Many times have been said here — otherwise very good speeches have been made here, both on the government and on the opposition side — and the framework for reform has been created during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u300	Mr President! I have to say to Minister Ruhula at the outset that I have not read the Bible, but I believe that, having explained so much catechism, I will pass the confessional school when it has already passed. The work is extensive, and it must be said at the outset that this social reform is needed, because we are living in an unconstitutional state at the moment, a constitution which, however, requires us to promote people's social benefits — and, if not benefits, health. And at the moment, Finland is living in a state where health inequalities have increased. The person who works for us gets better health and medical care than the unemployed. We have a poor man who lives less time than a rich man. We clearly have inequalities in health and social care services, and that is our Article 19 of the Constitution. does not accept. So it can be said that hardly anyone would like to interrupt the preparation of this project. There is a need for reflection, for there are certainly things that will be corrected even after this preparation, when this legislative procedure seems to go ahead and the government will move this forward as it pleases. But I would hope that, before that final decision, the parliamentary team could quickly be gathered together at a table and seen when the government has clarified all the points made by the experts. The positive thing has been that Prime Minister Sipilä has already announced that matters will be carefully considered, and I believe that the ministers present will agree that, at this stage, of course, if there are clear shortcomings, things will still be examined. But the Left Alliance wants the laws governing the organisation of social and health services and regional reform to be corrected by parliamentary cooperation. Funding must mainly be provided through progressive taxation of income and property, and the provinces must also have their own tax rights to enable them to exercise their autonomy in decision-making. The necessary laws will be drawn up to moderate customer charges. A good starting point, and I do not believe that a large group of representatives of the government parties is against this basic approach. It would be wrong not to say that there is no risk here, when we give some of these things a natural monopoly, which certainly needs to be developed, into the hands of private holders. We have unfortunately good examples of this: Digita and Caruna. Of course, we cannot compare these things with each other, because we have been sleeping with this for decades, and that is what we can say in a moment. We have too rigid structures, our basic and special care service chain is too bureaucratic, and it does require government to take action so that this depraved needle will be dropped soon as it is yellow. But let us shake this up together, and I hope that we can still think about the possibility of gathering together quickly and taking the parliamentary round so that we can correct this and agree on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u301	Mr President! It is still necessary to comment on what has been discussed in the past, when many here have said that the reform gives the assembly their freedom of choice and the centre their regional model, that it may be that freedom of choice is of greatest interest to the assembly, at least if you listen to the speeches, but it has to be said that, in substance, a model such as the regional model has already been on the agenda of the basic Finns for a couple of parliamentary term. Nor is it, in principle, wrong for parties in such a general way to seek to promote their own views on how things are done in our country. Haven't we been voted in this Parliament to promote it? There are all kinds of dim pictures of this social media model on the Internet that they laugh about, that there is no customer in the picture. I must say that both these challenges must be met. What is built in the province must be out of place. In some respects, either the municipality or the state must leave the province as far as it is concerned. We cannot build overlapping structures, functions or costs. This also applies to the provincial tax if and when it will be fixed in due course. It cannot be that the tax burden is being increased any more. The customer, the citizen, must also be found in the pattern. I have great confidence in the committee here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u302	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to safeguard people's services. As a person who lives quite far away from the growth centres, I think this proposal is very much to be expected. Years of beating and felting are finally going to the finish line. This is what people have been waiting for. In the forthcoming reform, it is good that the regions are genuinely given the right to organise their services. I hope that this will genuinely happen without strong central control. In many cases, the cost development of specialised medical care has been quite difficult for the economy as a whole. With this reform, the costs of special care, which are heavily swaying the municipalities' finances, are now shifting to wider shoulders. This performance is a rescue for the future of many small municipalities. In the future, these municipalities can genuinely focus on developing the things that the residents of the municipality can and want to influence. Mr President! No major reform is complete at the same time. This too is hardly the case, but it will be developed in the same way as the rest of society in the future. But this is a good proposal, and the regions are already taking this reform to fruition with a strong attitude of development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u303	Mr President! A few more things about this social reform. That is why I am concerned that when every Finn pays taxes according to the ability to pay taxes, this will, however, lead to centralisation of tax money in the centres. It's an inevitable fact that I can't help it. With my weak powers, you can't stop it. And when you look at the fate of these rural communities today, you try to be so that all the state services we have had so far have already left in practice: the Employment Office, the Social Insurance Institution — the police were left behind in Ilomants after a hard struggle. The Border Guard has narrowed really hard, before we had 140 bordermen, now we have a team shot to death, less than 20 men. So as far as the state's desire to maintain rural communities is concerned, it is probably true that this desire does not exist. Now for this real estate problem. Municipalities have different kinds of social work properties throughout Finland. After 2021, the provinces rent them if they are interested, and then these provincial properties are held by the state real estate company. Then will they be contractions, or will we build more? I do not know, but in any case, in centralised decision-making, at least my municipality has learned hard from the behaviour of Senate properties that it feels no pity. I could tell you a terrible story about how the last cradle of the Kalevalian poetry song tradition, the only one in Finland, was almost leaven up, but the municipality of Ilomants saved it. The government had no interest in dealing with it, but the municipality was courageously critical of how it should be handled. But it was now saved, and I am glad and proud that the Kalevala community saved the only cradle of Finnish poetry song tradition in this country. As far as the elderly services are concerned, I am concerned because we have, for example, the services of the elderly in Ilomants: we have adequate services, we have knowledge and, above all, human care, and every person can be treated in the municipality until the last day of life, and then with dignity, as the saying goes. However, recently in Finland there has apparently been a procedure in which elderly services are being awarded for many municipalities, and when a municipality wins the competition, such as a big company or an operator, the elderly are being transferred within the province from one place to another. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people: how many Finnish MPs in their old age want to move into such an environment that they have never visited? When those forces are gone, then they will be moved to a cold place like this somewhere on the other side of the province, where then on a quiet ride on some foggy night they will be moved to the cemetery cooler after the spirit is gone. In my opinion, Finnish society is obliged to ensure that every person is allowed to spend the last days of his life in his own municipality. At the moment, we in Finland have the know-how to do so, and it is certainly enough to know, for example, in my municipality of residence, that every elderly person can be cared for and treated with dignity and until his last days. This is why it is extremely important to maintain on-call services throughout the country, because of this care for the elderly. For example, the right level of medical care for the elderly and its continued updating is extremely important. At that point, even the slightest wrong move can lead to an inpatient patient for this old man, and it will then lead to huge costs. If we go into a centralized system, I think it is inhumane and this reform of the social welfare law must not come about. This reminds the ministers now, and also the committees, that this should not happen. At least I do not want to be the congressman to whom it will be said in ten years' time that you ordered that the elderly people in Hyymantz be taken to Pyhäsel, for example, when their feet no longer carry. This is such a thing that this may give someone a bit of a smile, but think about yourself in the situation: you are going to be in an environment where no one knows you — no social relations or ties of any kind. I hope none of us get caught up in that cycle. Mr President! Finally, with regard to this general situation, do I believe that anything good can be achieved in this country by concentrating on it? I don't believe in that. We are speaking today of beautiful words about the bioeconomy and many other wonderful things this country is wearing, but if we are to be destroyed... Or I will not say 'destruction', but I will say that if we have reduced services and they are taken out of rural areas, it will also lead to a reduction in the intensity of economic activity. What's going on in the capital region? We pay between 2 and 3 billion people a year just because living here costs so much and it doesn't seem to bother anyone. We, on the other hand, in drawing up the next budget on this issue
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u304	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers, Minister Vehviläinen and Minister Rehula, for this proposal and, of course, for their endurance. It is almost seven hours or more and you have been present all along to hear the concerns of our parliamentarians about what we have been saying here. Thank you, too, for this reform, which you have done well in cooperation with the ministries and others. This is the kind of embryo-renewal spirit. It must have been 2004, when Hannes Manninen came to us in the municipalities to tell us the good news that the reform is now coming and soon are the municipalities in order and the Best Santa Claus, and it is therefore a good time for this to be achieved. Of course, we now have quite a package, more than a thousand pages, to read and make good decisions about it. Make a mess of it first. There has probably been a lot of social dialogue here, and it is indeed important in what way we get good services in these urban centres but also in the periphery, and also — let us say — regardless of income and age. This integration of social and health care: it is very important that we have care chains and then also this care management is natural. We have probably worked in many municipalities within the framework of this Paras project and different operating models have already been developed in Finland, and as I said before, we should not go any further than the sea to fish, but also look at our working models. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will also see how Kainuu, for example, has succeeded, how Eksote has gone. I will also raise my tail in the context of our social company Mänttä-Vilppula, where there has been good cooperation between a public operator and a private operator. This social business base has actually been created in England, and it has been cultivated quite a lot. Today, for example, when these fellow populists accuse members of our government of friend capitalism, if there is profit in this social enterprise, half of the profits will be immediately returned to them for the development of activities, and the latter half will be divided in proportion to the shareholders. It would be a good approach if these elements were to be allowed in these different companies, i.e. I see this as good, and I do not think it is worth saying that all the money flows abroad. Of course, we've had a lot of efficiency here, too. We have saved $3 million there in our own small keeper, the keeper of 10,000 inhabitants. If it were to be placed at the Finnish level, we would have saved a billion and a half in Finland with these measures. When all these administrative and other activities are added to this, I believe that this package, which we have in hand, will lead us over the next decade to these savings and efficiency gains of EUR 3 billion in public spending, but I do not think that it is out of service, because at least we have good services at the moment. The very important thing that has been addressed today is management, how this process is managed and how to get this whole exercise to the finish line. We have a lot of people on the move at the moment, and thank you to the ministers for the fact that you have all the provinces set up for good functioning at the moment. Even in Pirkanmaa, we have 500 people caught up here, either by officials or by representatives, and it is like a mess. We are just waiting for that legal basis, where we can then base the rest of the decisions on which to go further. In other words, I do not think that we are going to have to cut off this nonsense, which is what we have here in no way. After all, we have 23,000 people here, at least as far as the social area is concerned. But as a message that different operating models are taken into account and kept pace. One could say this kind of aphorism as in many other processes: if you think about the time of Hannes, then there was more time at the beginning than at the end. Now we are in a bit of a hurry, but let us also hope that this Chamber will work well together to achieve this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u305	Mr President! I just said that this part of the municipality was completely neglected when 5 minutes were so short. I'll start by looking at the study, which was the reason why people didn't go to municipal elections and run for office. Of course, the main reason is personal reasons; people have family situations. The second reason was the sobriety. The third reason had changed the atmosphere in municipal councils. It is a social policy which means that this uncertainty about this model does not convince people to go into municipal policy. The major concern at the moment is the financial position. Thus, the municipality is cutting it by 12.47 percentage points — no matter how much the municipality has spent on it on its own tax revenue — by the same amount. Similarly, the cut in corporation tax of half a billion euros will be made in Finland as a whole. The central government level of municipalities has been promised to ensure that changes do not exceed EUR 100 per person plus or minus EUR 100, which means that it is provisionally justified. I understand that no municipality is going to be quite impossible, but it does mean that all the criteria for the state of the municipalities will be withdrawn. This central government contribution is the first problem with this local government financial position, and then these are these cuts. Secondly, to which I hope there will still be some change, these buildings will be here. So the hospitals are owned by the municipalities, and now the property with all its equipment is transferred directly to the province — the argument has been that the taxpayers have once paid for it, but nevertheless they have still been the municipalities, joint municipal authorities. In addition, it has been decided to rent these social work properties for three years, which is also very good, but three years is quite a short time. And at the same time, when half of the money is taken away from the municipalities and, of course, the state shares of the social security funds, then half of the balance sheet is taken out of the balance sheet, but no debt. After all, the municipalities are left with all those debts. And when we know where the municipalities are currently receiving funding, it is through municipal funding, and when those provinces' future properties will go there The Senate to the second, i.e. to the company that is owned by the provinces and the state together, the provinces will have only that short-term loan, so that the provinces will not have the position of having to borrow so much more than that day-to-day service production. But municipalities still have vital responsibilities, which means, for example, creating infrastructure, creating jobs or repairing home schools and kindergartens, and the finances of municipalities are deteriorating to finance this. Their credit rating is falling, and the financial position is deteriorating anyway, because with this model the municipalities will no longer receive that money at the same price. It's perfectly clear. And then on to these other things. Of what I have just mentioned, the problem is that the municipalities do not have the opportunity to conclude a joint agreement with the provinces on how to distribute tasks and jobs. So I understand that at the moment the capital region has been given the opportunity to organise growth services, i.e. employment services, but not other regions. It is the only flexibility in all the tasks that I am currently aware of. Then we have the question of how the staff, the social workers and then the support service staff, at least half of whom carry out these tasks. I have understood — and it is a very good idea — that all staff should be transferred to the province by handing over business. But what happens after that staff is transferred to the companies? Are all the terms and conditions of employment changed? Are wages being re-harmonised or are we sticking to it at the same time? Of course, they're moving on. It also involves pensions. When, of course, private companies decide on any pension company, these public companies, those provincial companies, according to this package of laws, decide on any pension company,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u308	Mr. Speaker! So far, before this parliamentary term, the reform of the social and regional sectors has progressed steadily. It has caused a great deal of uncertainty in the municipalities, if that has been the case, as the previous speaker has said. I disagree. It's clear now. We've got a clear model. The ball is now in the provinces in the construction of the future, not only of service production but also of vitality. It has now been expected that we will know which line to take — at last. We have now found sufficiently tough ministers, Mr Ruhula and Mr Vehviläinen, who are probably taking this issue to the finish line. This is what we have been waiting for for for over a decade, and now it is happening. Everyone's statement is that reforms are needed without them Finland will not be able to manage and the services of the municipalities, especially the Finns, will not be and will not be achieved by our ability to carry out economic activities in such a way that our costs will not continue to rise and run away. President! A few big things that have to do with this. I think that the division of labour between regions, societies and municipalities is all right and good. It is clear — when I say, and as the ministers have also said here — that the ball is in the municipality where they build their network of services so that local services operate in every municipality, and how they introduce new technology, how information is passed, how management is improved and improved, and all this so that from the point of view of the municipality and the patient goes in the right direction, i.e. data transfers work and are more fluent than they are at present. In other words, a smoother service, a smoother everyday life is being sought, and that bill definitely takes us in the right direction. At the same time, we also need to clarify the division of labour for the big area of activity in the Erva region, and that debate, that negotiation, of course, is taking place in each region separately. There must be a genuine consensus between the provinces and the separation, so that everyone can see the whole that it is. It is also possible to introduce new forms of action, operating models, treatments that, now that the shoulders are wider, are available for emergency care, for home delivery services and so on, must be adopted, and can now be achieved, and they will also bring significant economic benefits and economic savings in the short run that we are looking for — or not so much savings, but a reduction in the increase in costs and the coefficient of slopes. President! I would also like to raise one point about the division of the provinces. When we all have the desire for the provinces to succeed and play a key role in creating those conditions for municipal vitality too, it is important that they are reasonably balanced. That is why I do not see it in all respects as a good thing that these transfers of municipalities to other regions were made. Some of them are natural. Even in my own province, I find it quite natural that Heinävesi is moving to the province of North Karelia. In many ways, it has integrated all its activities to North Karelia and Joensuu for a long time. But instead, Joroinen, who has practically integrated all its service production into Etelä-Savo and is the municipality of Etelä-Savo, is now moving to Northern Savo. I do not think that this is a good solution; it is part of that proposal, but in my opinion, when South Savo is a small province already in existence and two municipalities are leaving it, it will become even smaller. I do not think that this is the most sensible thing to do, but that Joroinen should also have been retained as part of South Savo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u309	Mr President! First of all, the ministers would probably have to pick up these hero medals from that neighbor, the former time. In person, however, an expression of appreciation must be given in just this way when possible. You've been tough on this, and you're still here to listen. I appreciate that very much. I am satisfied with my work as a Member of Parliament in view of the fact that the ministers are still present at 9:04 p.m. I must say, however, that this digitalisation would have had to be done. So that we can promote the functioning of the services as described above, what needs to be done, that process would have had to be done anyway, whether it is social or not. We have good examples that it costs a lot of money, but I do trust in this progress in digitalisation. This position works at least on behalf of Mrs Myllykoski. I have received the services I have provided in different places. The E-receptor works perfectly, at least for me. Of course, there is always something to fix, but these are the examples that we can get through digitalisation, and it will also force this integration, more and more to intensify natural cooperation, and will remove those systems that work limply in basic health care and special care. And I must say, Mr Pirttila said that we also have about 500 people in Satakunta working hard on this work. But finally for Mr Mäkelä: we need to increase tax resources if our older population is going to be deprived of care and social services. It is our debt of honor, that the builders of this land should receive valuable old age.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u310	Mr President! There has been an interesting debate on this today, and I have noted that there has been a strong debate around social and health care, but another big issue here is, of course, this regional reform and the provincial administration. Now that this comes to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, this debate will, of course, stimulate the preparation which will then be made in the committees when we get to grips with these issues. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, of course, its own field and will give its opinion. But then the Committee on Administrative Affairs is expected to deliver an opinion on this regional structure, and there are a lot of large entities that should be looked at there. It is a good thing that this also goes to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, because we are dealing here with more than 200,000 employees, their pay and working conditions matters, and even transfers from the province to companies, how then will people's employment security be safeguarded. They're big things. And, of course, the Committee on Budgets is at least looking at taxation. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health will then put this whole together, and the timetable for that mid-June will certainly work with us all. We will then wait for that freedom of choice law to come in time to keep up with the timetables. But I'll tell you one thing, you have to have enough time to deal with something this big, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u311	Mr President! As a comment to Mrs Myllykoski, she is quite right: tax revenue must be increased. However, I see that tax revenue must be increased by increasing the growth of the national economy — not by increasing the tax burden, because it also undermines the growth of the national economy. As far as Mr Paatero's speech is concerned, it occurred to me that, at least in our home town, the list of candidates for the municipal elections of our own party was one-and-a-half times higher than in the last elections, and no one left or left to say that there was a reason for the war not to want to go to municipal elections. More people want to get involved in this transition and prepare for the regional elections. Each in his or her style — others look forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u312	Mr President! Perhaps a few words on that content of the regional reform were left in mind. It is very important how these growth services, which are linked to them, can be managed and built: how, for example, do we get these resources released by the Ely Centre — 85% of their activities — into business, different communities, such as advice and other tasks. I hope that there will be very active actors in the provinces, including municipal-based actors, i.e. business companies working more closely with these growth services. It will be very important in the future, through municipal life support — if it is said that there will be planning, education, development — to have new vigour and new business activities. There was no rural administration in this package. Of course, there was already environmental management, environmental health care, but there are of course concerns here: how will this be organised in the various peripheral regions of the provinces, especially for rural entrepreneurs, and whether there is familiar advice, or at least whether there is good service there? In some ways, the TE Office services will also join this whole pattern in due course. At present, TE Office services have almost ceased or become exhausted in the periphery of the provinces and the municipalities themselves have had to take responsibility for their activities. However, it would be very important that there should be coordination with education, recruitment and business, and, as the Employment Office did in the past: guidance businesses and the acquisition of workers. I hope that this kind of strong approach will go in the direction of integrating these different activities as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u313	And then the ministers' speeches. — — — — Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u314	Mr President! In short, I would like to thank you warmly again for this good debate, which has come up with a great deal of food. As far as these are concerned, perhaps in the second half of this, in relation to the future of the regional reform in terms of funding, the adequacy of regional funding, the property arrangements and these service centres, I share their concerns. But then I think that, when the committee also takes a closer look at what these three national service centres are actually doing and how it has been thought that they are working — for example, when there has been a debate in this Chamber about little Senaat — it must be pointed out: it is a joint-owned joint-stock company in the provinces, and the voice of the provinces must be heard in the way in which the property and space management is carried out. Then perhaps I will repeat to this part of the funding that, as I said in my introductory speech, this whole, which is now before Parliament, regional funding, regional funding law and then the issue of local government participation, is more than EUR 20 billion of public finances, a huge one, considering that the size of the state budget is more than EUR 50 billion. Then there is the financial contribution to the other tasks to be carried over to the provinces, which is just another billion. It is indeed under discussion right now, and it will come this spring. It is likely to take a consultation this week and come to Parliament for discussion this spring, so the whole funding of the provinces, the funding of all the tasks, is here at the same time. Mr President! With these words I would like to thank you for this debate and I really hope that, in good cooperation with the committees, this issue can be taken forward together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u315	Mr President! There are many things that could still be commented on at this stage in the evening, but three points in the case of matters: Firstly, promoting well-being and health will be a measure of how municipalities and regions are able to cooperate. One change is being made to the central government system of municipalities, and that is that there will be a welfare element. Secondly, the Regional Finance Act has a 1 % share, distributed on the basis of a population basis to promote well-being and health, for preventive work. These are not earmarked, but the fact that, for the first time in the financial laws, we now have a total of EUR 250 million is of great importance in principle. How cooperation, how sport, how culture, how municipalities meet and find the best possible model from the point of view of the person, it certainly requires work, like many other things at the border between regions and municipalities. But this financing solution is a matter of principle. The second comment relates to what has been said earlier: we are in the process of creating legislation that will provide the framework. The regions, the regions, are making their own kind of social solutions. This is one such question that can well be put under criticism. There are those who believe that there should be an entirely one-to-one model across the country, but it has been assumed that legislation will provide a framework and framework. Well, state control is important here, and the importance of its state control is not limited because the equality of Article 19 of the Constitution must be realised as this solution progresses to the stage when service production is actually carried out in everyday life. Regional preparation has a key role to play in the kind of war, the kind of services people are going to end up with. Third comment: We will continue to have the Elderly Services Act, the Health Care Act, the Disability Services Act, the Family Care Act, the Child Welfare Act and so on and so on and so on. The so-called substance law governs the activities that regional service providers must carry out. From now on, Mr President, we need people, women and men who will solve the problems. There's a problem. This proposal, which is now at the end of the parliamentary referral debate, is not without problems, but those who solve these problems will be able to cope both in the provinces and here at the national level. We need change leaders now. There should be no room for change resistance leaders in the inn. At the end of the day: One major concern along the way has been where the so-called section of the so-called "society" has been forgotten. It is only in my ears that this debate has been about the fact that social services, which are just as important and increasingly important in the future as the population ages, must be integrated into this model of health care. It is just so much easier to talk about health care and access to a doctor. That is a good thing, it is concrete. But for us to have a system, it also requires that we decision-makers, parliamentarians and all those of us who are moving forward with the implementation, that we remember in every turn: so-te. For my part, thank you for the debate. By the way, today took the so-tea forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u316	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-07-ps-18.u317	Mr President! Just a few more thoughts about this bill at the end of the night. The committee has agreed with this government proposal and does not propose any changes to it, that is to say. Of course, one might wonder whether these laws necessarily need to be fixed-term, because it is generally to be welcomed that students can raise private money for their activities. In addition, for further development: this bill does not mention it, but Finland has a bit too strict money collection legislation, as crowdfunding, for example, is a strongly emerging form of finance for business and product ideas, and Finland is clearly lagging behind internationally because of its legislation. It is therefore worth considering in the future if this law were to be made slightly more permissive in these respects.
