ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u1	I ask the representatives to meet to attend the Cathedral in front of the National Library on Wednesday, Independence Day, at 11:40 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 18/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u3	Irade the Talman! I övermorgon ska vi fira att vårt land phyller hundra år, Together —Tillsammans. Finlands TVå språk är en alldeles fundamental del av Finlands history och identityt. Det auri förslaget om ett språkförsök kommenter dock göra att det svenska språket får en mer undanträngd roll i den finländska skolan. Försöket är både för litet och för stort. Det är för litet eftersom 2200 eliver är så avgränsat att det kommer att bli svårt attdra några slutsatser av försöket. Av den anledningen ifrågasätter jag hela språkförsöket. Det änns nämligen inte som om man gör språkförsöket för att få reda på något nowt, utan att man gör det för att minska svenska språkets ställning i vårt land. Det gör mig både ledsen och confundererad, för varför vill man minska svenska språkets ställning i vårt land då det inte entbart är en kontaktlänk till en stor del av vårt lands history, utan också en bro och en contacttyta till övriga Norden? Jag är naturligtvis gladat att försöket ändå är så litet som det är, och jag vill taga alla dem som har jobbat för att försöket ska vara så litet som vöjligt. Samtidigt är försöket inte någon liten sak för dem som deltar i det. 2200 elephant kommer att lija bort det andra inhemska språket, ett val som de eller i practiceken deras föräldrar kommer att göra och som kan påverka deras liv och deras framtida karriärer om de vill söka sig till ett jobb som kraver känskaper i svenska, inte bara formellt utan också i practicekken. Vad heider också med de eller som ångrar sig under försökets gång eller vars fabillioner under försöket flyttar till en Svenskspråkig kommun? De är är stora öppna frågor och risker med försöket. Irade the Talman! SvenskaKunskaperna i statsförvaltningen och hos statliga myndigheter har försämrats om man blickar tillbaka i ett lite längre perspectiveiv. Det aur har också konsatres i tidigare utlåtanden från grundlagsutskottet. Då vi för ett par veckor sedan behandlade tingsrättsreformen constaterade vi också att språkkunskaperna i domstalsväsendet riskerar att försämras. Vi borde därför i stället diskutera hur vi kan vända på den är urvecklingen, hur Svenskundvisningen kan utvecklas och förstarkas, inte avvecklas och försvagas. De försämrade svenskakunskaperna i statsförvaltning och myndigheter märks också på Åland. För Hundra år sedan drev ålänningarna en kamp för att få bli återförenat med Sverige, för att svenska språkets ställning skulle tryggas. Nationernas förbund beslöt dock att Åland ska förbli en del av Finland men bli en självstyrd autonomi för att trygga den Svenskspråkiga culturen. Som en del av överenskommelsen och beslutet förband sig Finland att skota alla förbindelser och åtaganden för och på Åland på svenska. Det ox har riket under Hundra år scött på ett för det mesta föredömligt och oklanderligt jätt. Ålänningarna har blivit nöjda och stolta över sin självstyrelse, att vara en del av Finland, men där man har kunnat utveckla samhället och där det svenska språket och culturen har tryggats. De Senaste åren har vi dock märkt en försämring i svenskakunskaperna i kontakterna med Åland, och därför är det skäl att också i detta heisende påminna om den internationalella överenskommelsen och de förpliktelser Finland gett det internationalella samfundet att kunna sköta kontakterna med Åland på svenska. Det är naturligtvis framför allt en anna fråga än detta språkförsök, men frågorna hör ändå ehep, för om allt färre läser och lär sig svenska i skolan så blir det på sikt svårare att också trygga de språkliga rättigheterna enligt grundlagen och de av Finland internationalellt angivna förpliktelserna om att communicationen med Åland ska kunna ske på svenska också i practiceken. Språkkunskaper öppnar dörrar och är inte tungt att bara med sig. Av den anledningen brode vi i stället diskuera hur vi kan utveckla Svenskundervisningen i skolan, inte som detta förslag att försöka börja en avveckling av den.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u4	Mr President! Mr Löfström spoke well, and at least this evening I am not going to repeat it all. I'm sure we'll have a little discussion here. Personally, I would like to remind us of what we are living from and how our well-being is genuinely financed. Finland as a small country lives from exports, only and only from exports and foreign trade, and since trade relations do not develop terribly in Finnish alone, we need language competence and multilingualism to create well-being. That should be understood by all of us. There is already quite a lot of trade in Swedish in the Nordic countries. We have a market here of about 30 million people, and it is usually through Sweden and other Nordic countries that we go to other parts of Europe to export goods and services and from there to Asia and America. In other words, we need multilingualism, language skills to create well-being, because we live in foreign trade. It is rare for someone to go directly to Asia in Finnish and Chinese. Usually you go through the Nordic countries. The Nordic countries are an important reference group for us, and when we look at our corporate structure, business field, business clusters, we have lived together, together, together, together for hundreds of years — Tillsammans. Of course, I myself would also like these forces, which are now strongly and even passionately driving this, to promote export-promoting elements with the same passion, because only exports are we living and it requires a wide range of language skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u5	Mr President! The implementation of the regional language experiment on the free choice of languages in the Government Programme is under discussion by means of this bill. According to the Government's proposal, the aim of the experiment is to allow regional experiments to expand the range of languages without having to study another national language and also to increase and diversify language learning in comprehensive school. Otherwise, this experiment, which will be launched next year — and the law would therefore be in force until the end of 2024 — is intended to monitor the impact of the experiment on learning outcomes and language choices. It is highly assumed that this experiment will increase the learning of Russian, French and German in schools participating in this experiment and, in the long term, the diversity of languages and their importance will also be emphasised in business and international trade. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group broadly supports this Government's proposal, as the free choice of languages has been included in our party's program for a long time, and we Finns of Finland have also registered this language experiment in the Government Programme in spring 2015. However, we consider the number of pupils involved in this experiment to be far too small, that is, the 2,200 in the presentation. This small number of pupils was also referred to above by Mr Löfström, and it is clear that a larger number of participants would be able to achieve more precise results at this stage in the follow-up to the experiment. According to our view, the number of students involved in the experiment, as defined in Article 5 of the draft law, should be increased to 5000 pupils. Mr President! With this larger number of students we are proposing, the scientific assessment of the actual effects of the experiment would definitely be more precise than the government's proposal. True, Finns are aware that the experiment entails some cost and depends on how many students participate in the experiment in different municipalities. Our parliamentary group is prepared for this amendment which we have tabled in protest and the cost implications it will entail in the autumn by submitting a related budget initiative with additional appropriations to expand the experiment. Mr President! Although the long-term effects of language testing on our education system remain subject to further examination, we Finns believe that language testing and its results will make a significant contribution to the development of our school system. We consider it an excellent thing that in this draft law, participation in the experiment does not prevent students from entering the second stage, because those who took part in the experiment can later be exempted from studies in another national language also at a secondary level on the basis of the application. However, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it became clear that liberalisation would also be necessary in higher education studies for those who took part in this experiment at the time, and in that respect we have tabled an amendment in committee which has been put forward in this protest. This amendment, therefore, concerns Article 8 of the draft law, and it has indeed added that 'which, above paragraph 1, provides for special teaching arrangements for the termination of an application for an experiment and for the appeal to be applied to university studies'. Mr President! I would therefore like to make these amendments, as mentioned in protest 1 and in line with them. Finally, I would like to emphasise the importance of information on language testing, which emerged from many of the expert consultations that we held in the Committee on Culture. This information is mainly the responsibility of the Finnish National Board of Education, and the need for information there really was shining on many occasions. It is important that information is in order and that information about the experiment is provided both by the providers of education and by the children involved in the experiment and by their guardians. This will ensure both a harmonised pilot scheme across Finland and, of course, the obligations and rights of those involved in the experiment will be made clear to everyone. Therefore, this experiment will certainly be a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u6	Mr President! I support the amendment tabled by Mr Savio. On these grounds, it is clear that the experiment must first be broader than the one proposed by the government and, secondly, also apply to university students. Language experimentation as a matter of course is very much to be welcomed. It is good that we are expanding our freedom of choice in language learning. I myself am a supporter of the free choice of languages. I believe that it would be in the interests of everyone, including the Swedish speakers in particular, to be free to choose our language to study. This would increase motivation for learning languages and reduce confrontation. If I have understood correctly, Åland is a representative example of this freedom of language choice, as it is known that there is no obligation to study Finnish either. However, now that the language experiment takes effect in some form, municipal decision-makers should take into account the fact that municipalities are required to apply for this language experiment. I would therefore encourage the development of relevant council initiatives if the municipal officials themselves do not see this possibility. Help with the development of initiatives is available where necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u7	Mr President! The draft law now before us on language testing is a good and well-founded one. It is true that, according to our Constitution, Finland has two official languages, Finnish and Swedish. Admittedly, the teaching of these languages is well organized in this country, and so it should be, equal languages — and so it is. But to try out a new system in which a student could choose another language instead of another national language is, as the Constitutional Committee states in its own opinion, a perfectly well-founded proposal. Although this experiment is limited, it nevertheless seeks the experience of such an experiment. There in North Karelia, on the eastern border, efforts have been made to organise the teaching of the Russian language, and it is only natural that when people live on that eastern border, trade relations and different relationships have been tied to the east over decades and centuries, and there is a clear need for studying the Russian language there. I can mention that in the neighbouring municipality of Tohmajärvi, for example, students from secondary and secondary schools have been offered the opportunity to study Russian very actively. There is a guy named Arto Juntunen who at the time did a very good job of organising various experiments and getting this opportunity. He has also been active in promoting such an experiment. Well, here we go. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in its own opinion that it is relevant to acceptability and proportionality that the student's participation in the experiment is based on consent and consent that both the student himself and also the student's parents want it and that they have been given adequate information on the matter, that they know what this is all about. Finally, Mr President, the fact that the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stresses the need for the student to have the opportunity, if necessary, to cancel the experiment, so that he does not fall on empty if he feels that he has made a major mistake. That is why this experiment is also a valuable observation made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u8	Irade the Talman! Ledamot Savio rain att genom att svenskan blir frivillig så kan man lära sig flera andra främmande språk i skolan. Det skulle vara intressant att veta vad han basear sig på när han säger det, för sedan svenska blev frivillig i studenttexamen har det blivet en drastic nedgång i främmande språk som man skriver i studenttexamen. Antelet elever som skriver svenskan i studenttexamen i finska skolor har cheaperats på tioår, men annat elver som skriver lång tyska har minskat med 70 percent på tioår, lång franska har minskat med 40 percent, italienskan har minskat med över 60 percent på tioår. Så det har sketcht en drastic nedgång i alla främmande språk. Vi brode lala oss fler språk som ett litet land, inte färre språk. Och det är inget nollsummespel mellan språken, så därför är den är urvecklingen verklgen inte en utveckling som vi borde gå längs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u9	Värderade Talman! I take two words here:'must' and 'freedom'. First of all, I resent the fact that there was no forced Russia, forced Chinese, forced Spanish. I'd love to be able to speak five or six languages fluently. Then there has been the talk of this word "freedom", the freedom to choose: I see it in the way that language competence, or strong, versatile language competence, is the one that creates that freedom for the individual as an adult. We already have an extremely fine education system in Finland. Academic education combined with diverse language skills, language skills, and you can do anything you want, you have the freedom to do anything in this world. Generally speaking, it is limited or weak language competence that limits de facto human freedom in adulthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u10	Mr President! I would like to make it quite clear to Mr Hoskonen that there are no official languages in Finland, but that we have two national languages according to the Constitution. In addition, the Constitution guarantees the status of certain minority languages. One common misconception in this debate is that, and this should be corrected, the Constitution would oblige Finns to study another national language. That is not the case. This obligation does not exist. The decision on compulsory Swedish studies or its abolition is a matter of ordinary legislation. Services must be provided by society in both languages, according to the Constitution, but nothing requires everyone to know these languages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u11	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mäkelä, for the clarification, that is exactly what it is. However, it should be noted in this experiment that this is a very small, modest experiment and, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states in its own opinion, this limited experiment seeks experience, and the Committee on Education and Culture also states in its report that it seeks experience. We have also had such experiments in other administrative areas. Everyone remembers from the municipal side this experiment with Kainuu's administration model, in which time these social welfare issues were carried out in Kainuu on the basis of the exemption law. On that point too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs argued that such an experiment is perfectly permissible and legal and has the right legal basis, because it seeks experience of how it works in practice. If we do not try anything, then nothing like this will happen. I don't think it's a good idea for anyone to be jealous that something here is in danger of endangering the position of the mother tongue or the position of Finnish or Swedish with this experiment, I don't believe that. But new experiences are needed, and they must be acquired, and then it is time for conclusions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u12	Mr President! Mr Löfström referred above to the fact that, when Swedish is no longer required as a compulsory subject in matriculation examination, language learning has generally decreased significantly at the same time. Well, I personally do not see the direct cause—the consequence relationship between the release of this Swedish matriculation examination and the decrease in this other language learning, but I would prefer to see this as a more general process of development, which is probably largely due to an increase in English supremacy. It must, of course, be addressed in some way in order to increase language learning and to make language learning more diverse. In my opinion, and also on the basis of expert consultations in the committee, the motivation for learning languages is likely to increase very significantly if the study is based on voluntaryness, i.e. on the student's own choice of language. The purpose of this experiment is, therefore, precisely to increase language learning, not to reduce it or actually to exempt the student from learning languages altogether: he or she would only be allowed to choose, with the consent of his or her guardians, a language that could be chosen. Mr President! I strongly believe that Swedish would also be studied in a much more motivated and diverse way if this voluntary service came into force. Those who would choose Swedish would be motivated and certainly able to do their homework much more actively, and so their language skills would also improve in Swedish. As Mr Hoskonen said earlier, this experiment has been supported, particularly in the municipalities of the eastern border, and this language experiment is very welcome there. Representative Hoskonen also appealed to the general experimental culture, which has been widely used during this parliamentary term. This language experiment continues this same good continuum and line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u13	Irade the Talman! Precis som ledamot Strand koh tidigare var inne på har språk betydelse för vår utrikeshandel, vår export. Vi är ett litet exportbetonat land, och Sverige är en av våra absolut största exportmarknader. Också de övriga nordiska lännderna har betydelse, och för att vi ska kunna vaa framgångsrika i vår ekonomi Handlar det om att kunna handla med andra lännderna, där de nordiska lännderna är helt centrala. Men det rauta språkförsöket handlar inte bara om att lära sig svenska i skolan, det handlar inte bara om att förbereda sig på export och handel, utan det handlar också om kultur och att vårt land också ska ha en Levande TVåspråkighet där man ska konna ha kontakt till sin history och hela det kulturarbete som finns i vårt land och som har byggts upp på två språk, Together — Tillsammans. Därför är det här språkförsöket ett steg helt i fel riktning. Nu när Finland firar 100 år brode vi i ställett focusera på hur vi kan vända på utvecklingen och lära oss förstarka Svenskundervisningen och stärka Kunskaperna i våra båda TVå språk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u14	Värderade Talman! There was also a little talk here that language teaching should be developed, and we certainly agree on that, that it should be developed, I do not see what you are really going to develop. So it is clear that there are many good experiences in language immersion and language spraying. And I myself would also like to see more economic history as part of language education, an understanding of the society in question. And yes, we are part of the Nordic countries. At least I hope that we will continue to be part of the Western world, part of the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u15	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 26/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-04-ps-130.u16	Mr President! I remember when this bill was discussed in a referral debate. It was a long and multi-generational referral debate which drew attention, among other things, to the fact that, although, in principle, everyone would like to see more growth entrepreneurs in the country, there was a legitimate concern that this would not just become another means of social immigration. Now, in its report, the committee has, in my opinion, paid great attention to the clarifications required by the law. It is also a good thing that, contrary to what some suggested in the referral debate, the evaluation of the authenticity of this business remains in the hands of social operators and the Finnish Immigration Service can also have its say on it — rather than outsourcing this discretion to companies, as some even suggested. Fortunately, this has not been done, and for this I thank the committee.
