ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 13/2017 vp. The general discussion was closed at the plenary session on 26 October 2017. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u2	Mr President! I shall make a proposal to amend the entry into force provision in accordance with Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u3	Värderade Talman! Jag understöder. I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u4	Riitta Myller, supported by Anders Adlercreutz, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u5	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 October 2017. In the debate, Anna Kontula, supported by Vartiainen, has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u6	We must vote on the referral to committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u7	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Legal Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u8	Mr President! Today, in the financial surveys, the risk section begins with the words 'the threat of a trade war is the greatest risk' — a rather different situation compared to what has actually been seen as the largest part of the post-war economy. I would also say that European trade policy and trade relations will be at a crossroads over the next year. If we fail to reach new agreements with Canada, then with Japan, with South American Mercosur, the signal outwards is that protectionism has won, free trade has gone backwards, the negotiating mechanism is not working, only the muscles of the big players are working. If, on the other hand, we want to show that after nationalist populism, which has risen all over the world, it will not be a stop but a synthesis, then we will conclude new, progressive agreements on which this proposal to the Finnish Parliament to ratify the free trade agreement with Canada is in fact a very important piece of the way. What do I mean by "synthesis"? The fact that, for the first time, a dispute settlement procedure based on permanent independent judges is being established, not an arbitration procedure based on the so-called traditional Anglo-Saxon trade law. It would be an important, indeed necessary step towards an international investment court, which the European Union and Canada have also committed themselves to working together for the world in the context of this agreement, and an important step in this direction towards greater transparency and the rule of law in commercial matters. Secondly, this Canada Agreement has wider and clearer commitments in relation to international labour standards, international environmental law. This is also very important when we look at the free trade agreement with Vietnam, for example, which is likely to be on the table next spring. How do we ensure that labour rights, environmental standards and trade rules are also implemented? Here, too, the example of the Canada Agreement is an important milestone forward. From a commercial point of view, this Canada agreement is, in fact, the most comprehensive agreement of all time, particularly with regard to services and procurement. In particular, Canada will open up its public procurement markets more widely than ever before, more broadly than, for example, on the US side in the past under the NAFTA agreement. So what does this mean for Finland in concrete terms? Less than a month ago, I was in Canada for a week with 25 bioeconomy companies. That would be a good place for us to grow up in Canada's vast biomass market, but in fact a relatively low-developed bioeconomy with our solutions. In Canada, forests are used unilaterally, not as energy, not as fuel, for example, and in many ways even forest management and harvesting chains are significantly underdeveloped compared to the Finnish tradition. On this side we are also currently facing trade barriers. For example, seven manufacturers of thermal power plants were involved. Pressure tests on boilers are expensive procedures, especially for smaller Finnish family companies, and when they have to be done again, when you try to reach the Canadian market, it is easy to get out of business. If the EU standard is applicable, then we will have the courage to invest in a new market, and hopefully now with the CETA agreement, as stated in the agreement, as soon as possible, it will be genuinely possible to export bioenergy boilers based on EU standards, for example, to the Canadian market with huge potential. The same applies in particular to these testing requirements for snow vehicles, medical devices — again significant knowledge and markets from us. Scale: we are talking about exports of some EUR 700 million already. The State Economic Research Centre estimates that in the long term, contracts of this type typically increase exports by around 40%. So we are talking about the benefit of hundreds of millions of euros for Finnish exports, which would be precisely for small and medium-sized enterprises, for which these non-tariff difficulties are the most significant. However, tariff preferences are already a smaller problem in the case of Canada. Currently, the 20 largest exporters account for 80% of our exports to Canada, hopefully and probably less than two thirds of the market share of the 20 largest exporters in the future. Concerns have been expressed about whether this agreement will, for example, limit our ability to change the way in which social and health services are organised in the future, whatever decisions will be taken in the future. The fact that the Committee on Audit also stated in the early part of the year that we were dealing with them is that Finland's reservations attached to the Canada Agreement clearly exclude social and health services, even when they are privately produced, even when they are produced by private service providers. This agreement does not in any way prejudice the right of the Finnish Parliament or the Finnish authorities to intervene in the way in which social and health services are provided, nor to return them from the markets opened to competition to the exclusive production of the public sector, if it is decided to do so at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u9	Mr President! The so-called temporary application of CETA began in September in a situation where a significant number of Member States' parliaments have not yet approved it, and Finland is one of these countries. Temporary application means that now that we have a government proposal before us, more than 90% of the agreement is already in force. From a democratic point of view, this is a problem that national parliaments do not have the opportunity to participate actively in such agreements which define economic relations at the heart of it. Under the democratic system, the Treaty should not enter into force until national ratification has been completed in all countries. From a democratic point of view, the negotiating mandate should actually be adopted in the Member States before the start of the negotiations and not after that. The European Parliament should also play a key role in shaping the mandate. Now the national parliaments are mainly rubber stamps for approval. The most important entity outside the scope of provisional application and falling within the so-called shared competence is investment, disputes and their mediation. The proposed model of the Investment Court refers to a substantial transfer of national control and public resources to a body governed by private law which is in no way accountable for its activities. There are a number of key problems here, although the Investment Court is certainly better than the Arbitration Court. The entire need for an investment court is questionable. National courts would be fully competent to deal with potential disputes. They have established customs and democratic legitimacy. Instead, only multinational companies have rights in the investor court. They are the only ones who can bring actions and receive compensation. The system means the capture of the power of big business. For example, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has previously stated in the context of the TTIP negotiations: "In the Committee's view, more should be done to promote the handling of such disputes in national courts between the Member States. The handling of investment protection disputes by national courts should therefore be a priority solution." This is therefore the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the same observation applies to the CETA Agreement. Mr President! We are assured that national regulatory powers will remain, but, in the interests of honesty, it should be stated that regulation must comply with the obligations and commitments under CETA. If a company considers that regulation restricts its rights or potential profits, the State may soon find itself in a court of law. There are already hundreds of cases in the world where, for example, a change in legislation to promote health or environmental well-being has served as a driving force for a company’s claims — not to mention the countless cases in which the legislator himself has abandoned legal projects because he has anticipated that they will lead to claims for compensation. At the request of Belgium, the European Court of Justice is now considering whether the proposed Investment Court is at least compatible with the Treaties of EU law. It would therefore be desirable for us to have information about the decision before we have to take a position on the agreement. Mr President! CETA involves risks and benefits, but even in the most optimistic scenarios the benefits are relatively modest. According to the official estimates of the EU Commission, ten years after entry into force CETA could have an impact on GDP in the EU ranging from 0.003 to 0.08% and in Canada from 0.08 to 0.76%. These, too, include unrealistic assumptions such as full employment and the full flexibility of labour mobility from one sector to another. The analysis of income-sharing effects is incomplete in the impact assessment, although income-sharing effects will certainly occur between different groups of people, sectors, Member States and regions. It should be noted that actual trade barriers and customs duties have largely been abandoned, i.e. CETA is much more than a matter of breaking down customs duties and barriers to mechanical trade, which is mainly a matter of regulatory harmonisation. Mr President! International trade and investment rules should be agreed on multilaterally whenever possible. Agreements should strike a better balance between the rights of businesses, states and citizens. It is very problematic that aspects of business's economic rights form the strict core of the agreement, while issues relating to the well-being of the environment, workers and societies are placed in the pieces of sustainable development without binding. Such a desirable approach is not enough, but issues such as worker welfare, food safety and environmental protection should be equally binding and sanctioned. The multilateral investment court envisaged by the EU could be a step forward in the present state of confusion, but only if it meets certain basic conditions. It should be permanent and independent, give equal rights and rights of action to all parties, take into account the principles of public law, also examine the obligations of companies and not just rights, and respect existing national institutions, laws and courts and be secondary to them. Mr President! I hope that the democratic right of Finland and the EU to regulate will continue in the future, and I hope that this aspect will also be taken into account in committee, as well as the protection of the environment and social rights and the binding nature of their obligations in this agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u10	We will take the floor again, Mr Tuppurainen, and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u11	Mr President! The government's proposal for the adoption of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, CETA, and its law on the enforcement of its provisions, should be supported. More like: CETA is a good agreement that goes beyond trade. The proposal deserves broad support from Parliament as a trade agreement supporting the Finnish economy alone. About 8,500 Finnish jobs are based on trade with Canada. There is also room for growth in exports of goods and services. Canada is among the ten largest economies in the world and is a safe destination for trade and investment. According to best estimates available, the dismantling of trade barriers will increase trade between the EU and Canada by almost a quarter. New export jobs create more for other sectors, so the long-term effects of the agreement are reflected in thousands of new jobs in Finland. Mr President! The EU-Canada CETA Agreement is more than just an increase in exports and trade. It is an encouraging sign that, after all, globalisation, which has been going on for decades and has improved the standard of living of billions of people, has not stopped. Protectionism and closing borders are not, after all, defeating development and progress. Globalisation and its underlying freedom of international trade have raised the standard of living around the world. The rise in living standards has not only meant an increase in consumption. More importantly, it has been accompanied by an increase in life expectancy, an improvement in health status and an increase in literacy and overall well-being. The great winners of globalisation are the people of developing countries, or actually former developing countries. In addition to these, globalisation has also benefited developed countries. Finland is a good example of the winner of globalisation, even if we look at the situation over a period of 150 or 15 years. In the long term, the only losers are those countries and regions that have not been included in globalisation. Mr President! As we boldly open our economy to the world, it must be understood that any economic change, whether it be globalisation, domestic market change or technology, is often a demanding issue at individual level. Society must be able to provide the necessary safety nets to cope with change. Economic development must be socially fair and take environmental protection into account. CETA is a model of an agreement that reconciles trade promotion with consumer, worker and environmental protection. Of course, it has been easy to achieve these objectives in principle, since Canada is a close and developed partner in terms of legislation and culture for Europe. One example of similarity is that the country’s health care system is largely based on public funding. It has been possible to develop a good agreement on a strong basis. The agreement strengthens guarantees for consumer protection legislation. The agreement strengthens workers' rights and maintains the possibility of further improving them by regulating them. Even for environmental protection standards, the agreement does not set a ceiling; it is still possible to improve them. Under the agreement, Finland can organise social and health services in private, public or in what way we want. A new opening has been made in the agreement on investment protection and related dispute resolution procedures. International dispute resolution is not a simple and easy task. If the system is based on national jurisdictions, any state may destroy the common rules of the game. Even if we trust the judicial institutions of EU countries or Canada, it is worth remembering that there are countries in the world where common rules do not apply. On the other hand, civil dialogue has been critical of systems where dispute resolution has been entrusted to arbitration. Criticism has been hard, even though governments have rarely lost arbitration. CETA provides a solution to an investment judgment system that is independent and has clear rules and transparency that increase its credibility. New trade agreements can be concluded using this model. It could become a standard contract. When we talk about free trade and promoting it, we are talking about better regulation. Mobility of goods, services, people and capital requires coordination of national rules. CETA is a good basis for regulating trade. Mr President! CETA strengthens the belief that the European Union is taking the lead in regulating and agreeing on a global economy. Hopefully, as soon as we finalise the EU-Japan agreement, a strong hub will be created for the progressive regulation of international trade. CETA also expresses the hope that Britain's unhappy Brexit project will not lead to an end to EU cooperation, but that this relationship will also develop under the leadership of the EU. Perhaps in the coming years, in better times, we can also make progress in the development of transatlantic relations and in reaching the TTIP agreement. The year 2016 was a terrible year, annus horribilis. Protectionism and nationalism prevailed, the political and economic foundations of the liberal world order were shaken. This year there have been shades of hope and light in the world. After all, international order can be strong enough to overcome the difficulties. An economic agreement such as CETA is a victory for freedom and progress. It is not a small victory or a short step, it is a great achievement which the Finnish Parliament should confirm.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u12	Now is the opportunity to ask for answers, and they will begin with representative Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u13	Mr President! Free trade is a good man, but a bad host. The Greens want to ensure that the promotion of free trade does not lead to weakening, for example, in the health of people or in the environment. Mr Tuppurainen, representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, made a hopeful speech, but I would point out that this too should not be naive. The CETA agreement under discussion is a small brother to the TTIP agreement, which has created a lot of ground. It is good to dismantle barriers to trade, but agreements on the harmonisation of mutual practices are quite different. The Greens cannot accept regulatory harmonisation or investment protection that would in practice allow foreign economic operators to prevent, slow down, weaken or repeal domestic regulation. My question to Mr Mykkänen is: how does the Minister feel about the CETA Ratchet clause on the practice of the Investment Court and the provisional application of the principle of democracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u14	Mr President! I know that Canadian economy when close relatives live there a lot. That's a lot to learn. For example, not a single Canadian dollar has ever been spent on bank support in this time of crisis. So the banking arrangements have been in place all along, even though they have been allowed to be next door to the United States. Now we know the situation in the NAFTA agreement: it is vague now in President Trump's term, and that is, of course, a bad thing. But then, for Canada, this CETA agreement may be even more important. It certainly has the potential for Finland and the European Union to play a leading role in this context. What, then, could Finland take? I think that in terms of digitalisation and artificial intelligence we should be and that Finland is now very active under Prime Minister Sipilä's leadership in the EU, a good thing, but then comes this Arctic expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u15	Mr President! It is important for the Finnish export-driven, small national economy that world trade plays and works with fair rules, and in that sense free trade has had significant positive effects in this respect. It has also significantly reduced global poverty and has therefore had elements for strengthening equality between societies and people, provided that it is implemented in the right way. It is true, however, that NGOs, citizens and political parties have doubts about how this agreement currently under discussion and the elements relating to the free trade system and investment protection in general can be ensured to operate in such a way that they do not adversely affect the development of environmental standards, the development of civil society, the development of public sector activities. That is why I would like to ask Mr Mykkäs: do you not think that it is important for Parliament to have as many committees as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u16	Mr President! Now that the U.S. Republicans have slipped from a good free trade policy, the importance of the Canada Agreement will become even more important politically. In this respect, it is very important that customs duties are removed from all industrial products, either immediately or after a transitional period, and tariffs on agricultural products and foodstuffs are almost completely eliminated. This is very important: More than 4,000 Finnish companies are exporting to Canada, and even this is what an EU critic believes in the Commission, for once when the Commission estimates that EU exports to Canada support 8,500 jobs in Finland. I can believe that. Free trade is, in principle, to be welcomed for blue people, given our national interests. This CETA agreement is not an uncle of the cabinets, it creates jobs on an equal footing in both women and men-dominated sectors. On this point, however, I would like to ask the Minister: when concerns have been raised about our social and health policy, this CETA agreement:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u17	Mr President! There has been a debate here that nationalism or the closure of borders would somehow be an obstacle in Europe. I would like to remind you that in contract law, everyone always looks at its own interests, there is nothing extraordinary about it. It would be rather strange if you were to conclude a contract for the sole benefit of another. I would have asked myself about this investment protection. I understand that in international law, for example, public access to documents and processing is not at the same level as in Finland, and publicity serves the credibility and legal protection of people. What is the situation here? True, the Finns of Peru are always concerned that things will remain public and open, and also that the decision-making power will not be taken away too much, and that, of course, these things often come here already well negotiated and what is right for us
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u18	Mr President! A year ago, Congressman Elo was still swinging around in this Parliament with Trump's cap on — now he's turned around or he can't fit in the head. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u19	Mr President! When we went through the OECD report in the Council of Europe, we were all enlightened that the more trade is liberalised, the greater the growth of several per cent at both ends with a longer delay. It is then a question of whether we can evenly share the fruits of its growth, and it is therefore a good thing that civil society, for example, was brought into the debate in this agreement. I would just like to ensure the point of view which the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry naturally wishes to ensure. I have understood that, when the rules of the game are harmonised, however, we have the possibility of keeping, for example, our food production at a higher level in Europe, and of course it will also affect the health of consumers if they can be demanded of the products imported here — I am referring, for example, to the use of hormones and to the promotion of antibiotic growth and to the freedom of gm.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u20	Mr President, ärade talman! Jag vill förena mig med kommisserie Malmström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u21	Mr President! As an export-driven economy open to Finland, trade liberalisation is in itself a positive and good thing, as long as these fair rules of the game can be adhered to. Every time there are protectionist rules of some kind, they rarely favour Finns. If we have to pay different thresholds and other people, we won't be able to do that. But when there is an open and uniform competitive situation for everyone, the Finnish company is usually strong. But it could actually be said that these problems in this free trade area are going to be exacerbated — or, rather, in these agreements — and they are linked to investment protection and then to this dispute settlement method. I would have asked you now that speeches have been made on this special court and asked about it, when you, though expensive and also very complex, may be this arbitral procedure: is it still possible, for example, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises? Is it possible for them to conclude agreements of the type in which they consider that they nevertheless designate an arbitral tribunal in which they are engaged?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u22	Mr President! Although Canada is an important partner for us, I share this strong concern about this investment protection that is familiar with the TTIP. While this protection has, of course, been improved and has gone in a good direction in itself, this dispute settlement, even if improved, will provide a foreign investor with better protection than a domestic investor. In the case of social services, the threat is particularly acute if freedom of choice continues. It is quite possible that foreign companies can claim and claim compensation from Finland if we change the operating environment contrary to the expectations of the investor, for example, if our national interests so require by a parliamentary decision or by a court decision. I would like to hear, Mr Mykkänen, how you have analysed this situation and how you see, precisely in terms of freedom of choice, that this better position of foreign companies should be taken into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u23	Mr President! This CETA agreement has a lot of benefits, but it also carries big risks. The Parliamentary Audit Committee looked closely at this issue when we dealt with the legislation on freedom of choice for women. I shall now read a direct quote from the main conclusion of the Audit Committee: "The financial risk of a State appears to be the result of a future legislative wish to restore the already privatised services to the public sector. In this case, the State(s) will have to make provision to pay Uncertainty about the amount of compensation or the fear of substantial compensation may actually lead to a permanent opening-up of the market." In view of this and other risks, it is very important for Parliament to thoroughly review this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u24	Mr President! Canada is a major mining and forest industry country, a country with a truly massive mining industry, and there is also a reasonably good mining know-how there. Finland probably has something to offer there, and we have a lot of equipment manufacturing in Finland that is known to be related to the mining industry, and we have worked together there, and we have traditionally been at a mining fair, where knowledge has been exchanged and trades have been made. The same applies to the forestry industry. That's what I'm gonna ask the Minister: When there is such significant economic cooperation, how do you see this effect when the US TTIP agreement, which is south of Canada, is known to have been in the wind? How do you see this having an impact on trade between Finland and the United States, because however, Canada and the United States are very busy, and that border does indeed exist in practice, but it is very easy to cross and move on both sides of the border and very lively trade?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u25	Mr President! Facilitation of trade between the EU and Canada and the elimination of customs duties are welcome. However, the problems of the agreement relate to an investment court that is open only to foreign investors, not to governments or domestic companies and investors. So it's a very one-sided arrangement. The second problem concerns the binding nature of labour, environmental and other social rights. They are not binding in the same way as the financial rights of undertakings. The third issue relates to the possibility for States to develop their regulatory and service structures freely in the future, even in the future, in the democratic decision-making process. This problem relates both to the investment court procedure and to regulatory cooperation. The democratic possibility of regulation should be maintained with claws and teeth. Mr President! This is not just about social and health services. Consider a scenario in which, for example, already heavily privatised early childhood education is to be returned to the public. Would it be possible if it were?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u26	Mr President! The agreement with Canada is very important, but I would also like to remind you that Japan is also in it. We have been working on a number of agreements in this area recently, and on the face of it it is a positive issue. This is where Mr Hoskonen actually took the words out of my mouth because he mentioned that Canada is also acting as the same platform in the United States. As a small country, as a small national economy, we may have difficulties in trading in large powers, but when we go through Canada, for example, things are often easier and simple. I would have asked the Minister: have you, now that you went on an export promotion trip to Ottawa, among other things, gone through how, in the future, Finland will be able to use Canada as a wider platform in North America and especially in the United States?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u27	Mr President! In the area of free trade, it is essential that it is fair to take into account human rights, health and safety at work, environmental protection. In this respect, concerns have already been raised, among other things, about social services, which the government is strongly exporting to the private market. Investment protection and the related dispute resolution mechanism are very worrying elements in this trade agreement. If you read Naomi Klein's book This changes everything, there is a very strong criticism that international climate agreements, for example, are in no way binding on states, whereas trade agreement rules and existing WTO rules bind countries enormously. Companies can sue countries if their investment is protected, even if it is very damaging to the environment. What are you, Mr Mykkänen, doing to make this international trade more binding?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u28	Mr President! The delegation of the Parliamentary Committee on Finance happened to be in Ottawa at the time of the conditional entry into force of this agreement. Yes, the views of both the decision-makers and the authorities were very positive there. The starting point then was that Canada intends and wants to conclude progressive trade agreements, progressive trade agreements, which include a high level of environmental protection, a high level of protection of working life, respect for social and health services and, for them now, respect for indigenous peoples, so surely we, both the EU and Canada, have the same objectives and purpose. But the concern and criticism expressed by the citizens' movements that this agreement in itself contains clauses contrary to these common objectives, which allow supranational companies to dominate, must now be carefully examined by the committees. What do you say, Minister, about Mrs Rinte's idea that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy should also be involved in the work of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u29	Mr President! In order to clarify the question of my first speech, I would like to raise this matter of the Investment Court. It is also related to this mining industry. The Investment Court allows a foreign investor to export new national laws, decisions by public authorities or even court decisions to a supranational body for assessment. Is this not an expensive bureaucratic proposal, which also includes the possibility of exerting pressure, for example if the Canadian mining industry and Finnish environmental legislation are on a collision course? The previous speech on CETA’s racetchet clause — we are talking about it now, even if it is a raging clause — means in Finnish that the bolt can only be tightened in the other direction, and when the bolt is turned in the other direction, it is only running empty: for example, when it comes to the freedom of choice of war, the services once privatised cannot be returned to public production. This point requires further clarification in this context, and I would like Mr Mykkänen to clarify his answers on these two points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u30	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Arhinmäki, for having noticed my close cooperation with the President of the United States of America, Donald Trump. Lippalak or not, as for anyone, some of his policies I like, some of them not. What I have not consistently liked throughout his policies is this anti-free trade activity, [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] And I'm a little surprised that when you think of Canada's leadership, Justin Trudeau, if you don't have this leadership, for example, the Left Alliance can make such agreements, then with whom?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u31	Mr President! It is true that, in recent times, free trade has been in the wind and there are more initiatives to restrict trade than initiatives to liberalise trade, and that is a serious matter. This is partly based on the concerns and criticisms expressed by citizens, NGOs, and it must also be taken seriously and responded to these aspects. It must also be said that if the European Union is unable to conclude a free trade agreement with a country such as Canada, then no one will be able to do so. It is just that, because of many factors, Canada is so similar — the same values, the same social and health system in many places — that all the conditions would be for a progressive trade agreement with Canada, which is aimed at other world trade. But concerns have been expressed about investment protection and dispute resolution, and one concern is absent. This agreement is a death blow to the ISDS mechanism, which has been most criticised by non-governmental organisations, that this arbitration procedure has to go down in history and replace itself with this more progressive system of investment courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u32	Minister Mykkänen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u33	Mr President! A lot of good questions. A few of them I'm trying to catch up on. First of all, one of the main concerns that was discussed still relates to the safeguarding of public services. Here Mrs Feldt-Ranta correctly read the first part of the opinion of the Committee of Auditors, but apparently the lack of time left the rest unread because it goes on to say: "In contrast, the EU-Canada CETA agreement does not seem to present new risks to the state in terms of public services if domestic and international companies are treated in a uniform way." This first part, as far as I understand, was related to the risks identified by the Audit Committee in relation to our own constitutional and, in part, EU law rights for the social and health enterprises that invested here, perhaps. But, as has been said, the scope for regulating public services in this Canada Agreement has actually been secured by three locks, more than any of our international trade agreements in the past: Firstly, no obligations under the Canada Agreement apply to public services which have been produced on a non-market-based basis. Secondly, the resolution of disputes concerning investment protection procedures is not about market access at all, but only about changing the regulatory environment for investment here in a discriminatory manner based on nationality. So if we decided that Canadian service providers would not be good enough, but Swedes would be good enough, then there could be a question outside the public service sector... For example, if we decided in the mining industry that Canadian mining companies would not be good enough, but the Americans would be good enough, then we could challenge the settlement of disputes. But if we, on the other hand, tighten up environmental regulation, which Mrs Aalto rightly pointed out, on an important issue, then this agreement makes specific reference to the tightening of regulation relating to health, the environment, legitimate public power. As Tuppurainen, for example, pointed out, this is just the bottom described and there is always the possibility to regulate upwards. The second lock is that Finland, because of the exceptionally important and global way in which social and health services are organised, has still left the strictest reservations on the national side of social and health services in the EU, which clearly state that even if they are produced privately, even if they are produced by the production of private operators, we will not be subject to any obligations relating to the liberalisation of trade. Thirdly, largely because of the domestic political turmoil in certain Central European countries, a separate so-called interpretative instrument was written on this last met in the autumn of last year, particularly in relation to the situation in Belgium, and this confirmed that this would not prevent the return of public services to public production, even if they had been opened separately in the past — which in itself was in this agreement, but it was written so clearly that every judge from any country would have to read clearly. And on this basis, of course, the Audit Committee also issued this opinion, including the rest. Well, then, we have also rightly drawn attention here to the fact that how we are now making use of these opportunities, particularly the representatives of Mr Hoskonen and Mr Skinner and also Mr Ala-Nissilä, referred to this. That's the right point. In this regard, we have actually discussed with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Energy, Mr Tiilikainen, that we should try to establish a special intergovernmental bioeconomy partnership, particularly in relation to the use of bioenergy, where Canada now urgently needs solutions for 30% emission reductions. They are clearly 10 to 20 years behind the Nordic countries in this sector, and now we just need to get a commitment and understanding from the highest level in Canada to bring their own regulation in the direction that we are doing, for example with regard to biofuels, in terms of the availability of bioenergy. And if any party here has better relations with Prime Minister Trudeau, then we hope to join in on the voluntary side. Mr Karimäki and others rightly drew attention to the future issue – which I think the parliamentary committees too could give more attention to than the rather untruthful question that this would have some threats to the current Finnish legislation – how we can better implement these important employment law and environmental regulations. I think there is no major problem with Canada, but in the face of future trade agreements this is an important issue. On Friday, in the Council of Trade Ministers, we will have this very issue again, and personally I have taken the initiative that we must dare to bring stronger complaint procedures into international trade agreements, even when the other side fails to implement, for example, the fundamental rights of workers or international environmental commitments. The challenge, of course, is that, if we go into sanctions, they will very easily fail in the face of WTO disputes and, on the other hand, we will not achieve those agreements if we demand something that the other side will never be willing to do. This must be a challenge familiar with the labour market tables. And just like on the labour market tables in the last 100 years, on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u34	We're gonna take another short debatation round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u35	Mr President! For example, our mining law is a very liberal law and makes it possible to come here strongly from all over the world. There is now concern about the fact that, in the context of the CETA agreement, Canada, which is known as a mining country, would become a large number of new companies for European exports. If such a theoretical situation were to come, that it would be decided that Finland will strengthen Finnish breeding and Finnish extractive industries in such a way that the state will also become involved in this kind of activity, do you see that there would be a risk in a CETA agreement such as this that would prevent this from being carried out? Then I ask you to answer the question as to how you can see whether, for example, from this point of view of the Mining Act, it would be reasonable for committees here in Parliament to deal extensively with this CETA agreement and assess Finnish legislation, its state, in relation to this CETA agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u36	Mr President! It has been argued here that the CETA agreement should be concluded for Canada because Trudeau is the Prime Minister there. Whoever happens to be prime minister is now the most absurd reason for concluding any agreement or relying on any agreement. The Prime Minister of Finland will change in just over a year, at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u39	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the very good answers. They will clarify this debate and will certainly take it in the right direction. However, I would like to return a little bit to what Mr Arhinmäki asked. It is precisely this investment court and the ability of international companies to influence national legislation: do you perhaps see the risk of investors trying to put pressure on national legislation in advance because of the fact that many investments depend on it? This possibility of exerting pressure and, on the other hand, the possibility for these international companies in this context of the Investment Court in relation to the national court — in these two cases, I would have asked your opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u40	Mr President! This debate on dispute resolution is very relevant. Perhaps many of us remember what the tobacco industry and the Australian State were doing earlier, and in that sense all these concerns of the representatives are justifiable. But let me remind you that the European Parliament did a great job here, and yet we came a leap from the traditional Anglo-Saxon arbitration procedure, which does not even have the right to appeal. But since this is a complex issue, I would ask you, Minister, how you deliver that message to Finnish industry and Finnish companies, regions and companies, so that we understand the possibilities of such a free trade agreement. If we look at the Japanese agreement now, we are talking about up to 10% advantages, as are Canada. In many respects, this is a really big issue for Finland's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u41	Mr President! Actually, one of the little deputies when Congressman Rinne brought in this mining business. After all, Canada is a major player in Finland at the moment. I understand that, at the moment, funds cannot be transferred directly from Finland to a Canadian subsidiary without leaving a tax trail, not only if you are a company but also in Sweden, and are then transferred from Finland to Sweden and then transferred from Sweden without taxation between the subsidiaries. Have some of these rules been considered in this debate for this mining industry? And let me reiterate Mr Kalmar's concern about this agreement on the food sector. This is particularly important for Finland, because our income through the EU becomes the largest financial flows through the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u42	Mr President! There are rather sceptical views here as to what the significance of such an agreement might be for Finland's exports and trade. I myself am extremely critical of the figures proposed by the European Commission, for example. But in this case this criticism may not be entirely appropriate, because our exports to Canada are pathetically small at the moment. Only 1 to 1.5% of all our exports go to Canada, which is the tenth largest economy in the world. The value of exports is only 400 million, compared with almost four times the value of exports to Poland, for example. So there is a great deal of room for growth here, and this offers a great deal of opportunities, and in this respect I would not underestimate the commercial potential of this one. But the Minister did not answer the question I asked earlier, namely whether it would be justified for the committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on the Environment, the Bureau and the Committee on Gender Equality to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u43	Mr President! After all, arbitration was based on the fact that in many countries there may have been a judicial system that could not be trusted at a very high level, but here in Finland, as in Canada, we have good national courts. I would remind you that both the large committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs have recommended that the TTIP should be based on national courts. However, this improved dispute settlement mechanism gives a foreign investor a better position than a domestic one. I believe that the very relevant and important issue raised by Mrs Rinne is the extractive industry. We have seen the situation in Romania, for example: when the government decided to protect the extractive region for cultural historical reasons, the Canadian mine giant has now sued Romania for its compensation and for bringing this open quarry project to an end. So I'd ask for an assessment of how.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u44	And now Minister Mykkänen, three minutes, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u45	Mr President! Thank you again for the questions. This is where Mr Rinne asked a question on mining policy. My impression is that if you start thinking about the role of the state as the owner of the mining industry, as an operator, then if you talk about taking over certain sectors as if it were the sole responsibility of the state, then it would rather be against the corners of our own constitution, EU law, than the clausuls in connection with CETA. As has been said, the CETA Agreement focuses on dispute resolution specifically on whether there is discrimination on grounds of nationality against one party in relation to another, and then on issues such as the whole industry's takeovers come mainly from other factors. As such, these are certainly matters which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee in particular will assess, and when a number of representatives have called for a question, including Mrs Harakka, on the committee's deliberations, it is for the Council of Presidents to consider and for Parliament to decide in which committees this will be dealt with in the spirit of an opinion. I certainly do not want to limit the fact that the various expertise in the house comes up in the report and in the decision, of course, unreasonably without extending the matter, but I do not see any problem in itself if more than one committee expresses its opinion on this. In particular, Mr Arhinmäki referred here to the need for a resolution of disputes, as they give international companies a sort of neckline. I would also like to turn this around, also with reference to Mr Karimäki saying that, when international companies are better placed in international dispute resolution, the problem is that, in the United States, for example, our companies have experienced that, in certain cases, domestic companies are better placed in US courts, and this too is reasonably understandable because it is easy to look at things through the traditions of their own country. When we talk about the need to be able to rely on agreements between companies from different countries, this separate international independence is important when a common agreement is applied and it is precisely interpreted. Its interpretation must be carried out by an independent body. And once this has come to an unprecedented rule of law, I think it is worth taking advantage of this in such a way that we also give way to that International Investment Court then for the future. In the past, Mr Myllykoski, among other things, has also referred to matters relating to agriculture, the hormone issue. The EU's so-called SPS standards for hormone regulation are not undermined in any way by this agreement. Mr Skinner referred to how to involve the provinces and businesses. We are in the process of considering this agreement and hopefully also the Japan agreement, which we hope will be brought to a close, from such things as roadshows, which activates Finnish companies to take advantage of these procedures. It is also a question of the possibility that Customs should invest in facilitating systems of proof of origin, because we are currently paying hundreds of millions of euros in extra duties in Korea, for example, because SMEs are not using the procedures that are too heavy and we could easily profit from it as a net.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u46	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u47	Mr President! This CETA agreement has been brought to Parliament in quite a hurry. I believe that there are representatives Rinne and Elo here from the Committee on Foreign Affairs which is presenting a report, in addition to myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u50	Mr President! We have been dealing with this CETA agreement — the more famous free trade agreement, the little sister of the TTIP — for some time now. Although the agreement does indeed offer opportunities for Finnish companies and for positive cooperation with a good partner such as Canada — and Mr Mykkänen has already opened them up to us — I will continue to focus on the concerns that relate in particular to this investment protection. I can still see, and the Greens see that this is a potential transfer of power from public power to private investors. It is particularly problematic that, even if investment protection is improved, it will provide a better protection for a foreign investor than for a domestic investor in the resolution of disputes. Let it be that this may also mean that a domestic company in Canada may then be able to act more securely, I believe that the Canadian legal system is one that can be trusted in any case. With this system it is still entirely possible that foreign companies can also claim and claim compensation from Finland if we change the operating environment contrary to the expectations of the investor, for example by a decision of this hall or by a court decision. This procedure is also potentially very expensive. The claims for compensation are easily raised to millions. The threat of a legal dispute that costs millions of dollars can, in itself, have the effect, for example, of obstructing better environmental legislation. There have been advance censorships in this country before. The agreement does not directly prevent the improvement of environmental legislation, but it may raise our threshold for action when we see that something potentially harmful is happening and we could prevent it. Although investors can unilaterally, beyond the national legal system, sue a state investment court, damage to the environment caused by a company or human rights violations, the Court unfortunately does not investigate. I believe that this is an imbalance in this issue. If we give companies rights, we must also make them accountable. In other words, although the initial proposed arbitration solution has been improved, it remains a very challenging one. The model addresses many technical problems, but does not remove the main problem, which is the transfer of power from public to private. Most of the disputes concerning investment protection in different contexts have concerned state legislative or administrative action in the fields of health, environmental protection, competition law or labour law. Previous examples can be found in different contexts around the world. The best - known example is probably the action brought by Philip Morris, a tobacco company, against Uruguay and Australia, when countries started demanding a picture of a lung destroyed by lung cancer. In the second, the Swedish energy company Vattenfall claimed compensation from the German State of more than EUR 1 billion after Germany decided to phase out nuclear power after the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident. In Romania, as has already been mentioned here in the debate by Mr Karimäki, the government decided to protect the cultural and natural values of the historic mining village. The protection decision halted the open quarry project for Canadian miners, and the company then claimed compensation of more than EUR 2 billion from Romania on the basis of investment protection clauses. What, then, could this mean in practice in Finland? Are these risks current or possible for us? Canada is an important partner for us and there are good opportunities for cooperation. I believe that the Canadian State will certainly have good objectives, but, as we know, supranational companies are not primarily looking at what they are doing. They look at their own balance sheet. In the case of Canada, there is a particular problem for the mining industry. A case has also arisen in Finland where, for example, a mining company threatens to complain about a municipal planning decision that protects nature from mining activities — this is in Kuusamo. In this example of the risk case, it is an Australian mining company, but it is hoped that in Finland we will not learn a bitter lesson about what CETA's investment protection means in practice when the interests of the supranational company and Finland's natural, Finnish state or Finnish people conflict. I therefore hope that this agreement will still have the most comprehensive debate and discussion in this House, and I warmly support the fact that, as far as possible, we will consult the various committees, because the issues affected by this agreement are not just about trade — they are about a cross-cutting approach to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u51	Mr President! This free trade agreement between the EU and Canada is of a mixed nature, the provisions of which fall partly within the competence of the Member States and partly within the competence of the European Union. This, of course, also relates to the strategic partnership agreement negotiated with Canada, and these constitute a common entity, which has well been highlighted in this debate. After all, this agreement has begun to be applied in advance in September, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be drawing up a report on this agreement, and I will, of course, influence it myself. Of course, ratification will take place in the national parliaments, and in this context, as the debate has shown, there is concern, particularly in the Belgian Parliament, about this dispute resolution mechanism and whether this CETA agreement is compatible with EU law with this system of investment courts. These concerns are legitimate in themselves and must be addressed. There is indeed this separate dispute settlement court, the same type that the EU has put forward in connection with the TTIP. I am a little surprised that what the EU has presented in it and what we see quite unanimously in it as an excellent solution and better than what the United States has put forward now is the Achilles heel. Of course, I hope for consistency in that if you are against this CETA agreement as a whole, then you are against TTIP as well. If this agreement were reached, the consequences of this solution would be very significant. Customs duties would be removed from all industrial products, as would a representative Mr Arhinmäki pointed out, either immediately or after a transitional period. Customs duties on agricultural products and foodstuffs are almost completely eliminated. This is important for Finnish agriculture and our industrial enterprises. Although Mrs Harakka was right in herself that our level of exports, EUR 400 million a year to Canada, is relatively modest, it must, of course, be compared with other countries, such as India, which has the same level of exports. So there is a lot of work to be done for both Canada and India, but I hope that we can reach an agreement on Canada, which we hope will also increase exports. However, there have also been a lot of non-tariff barriers to trade, which have been significant export barriers to Canada. The dismantling of technical barriers to trade, the reduction of double testing and, of course, the harmonisation of regulation will clarify the environment in which our businesses operate in Canada and Canadian companies then operate in the EU. This would bring significant benefits for both Finnish companies and consumers. It must also be noted that in services and investments CETA is clearly the most comprehensive EU trade agreement and would create better business opportunities for Finnish companies in many service sectors. Mr President! In public procurement, Canada will therefore open up access for European operators to some of its regional procurement and indeed to a wider extent than any other contracting partner. The OECD estimates that Canadian public procurement as a whole represents around 13% of their gross domestic product. A significant proportion that even Finnish companies could catch up to. More than 4,000 Finnish companies are exporting to Canada and, as the EU Commission has estimated, EU exports to Canada support 8,500 jobs in Finland. Of course, this dispute resolution mechanism and the related challenges of public services have also been raised. It must be borne in mind that the investment protection section of this CETA Agreement guarantees the legal rights of the parties to the agreement. The obligations of the Agreement shall not affect the right of the parties to regulate the measures necessary to achieve legitimate policy obligations such as health, safety, the environment, public morality and consumer protection. I do not think there should be any ambiguity here. Mr President! Free trade is in principle to be welcomed for blue people, provided that it takes into account Finland’s national interest. CETA is not an uncle agreement on cabinets, but an agreement on good legislative work and negotiations with partners we can trust in principle and with whom we have a lot in common. It creates work for Finnish men and women in our SMEs and brings the relationship between Finland, the EU and Canada closer together. I find it difficult to see other concerns than this issue of investment protection here, and that is what has become justifiable concerns. I am pleased that Mr Mykkänen has unambiguously explained that it is appropriate for the government to go through this issue with the widest possible committee debate and to conclude an agreement which is acceptable to the various parliamentary groups and parties as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u52	Mr. Speaker! Free trade and globalisation certainly bring many benefits to countries and populations as a result of increased economic growth and prosperity, but it is also undeniable that there are social concerns. International cooperation and agreements are needed to combat these negative consequences, as stated by the ILO Commission. These include international climate agreements and, for example, the International Convention on Tobacco Control, which has also been ratified by this Parliament and which aims to reduce the number of deaths of about 6 million people per year. Given the considerable advantages of free trade, this trade agreement CETA, which was also widely justified by the Minister, needs to be approved with Canada, and it is certainly advantageous to Finland in many ways, but it must not prevent us from considering the problems. The world is not black and white, and although there has already been a rather colorful debate on this issue, I would also like to reflect on it, and precisely on the basis of this investment protection agreement. I am one of those who see investor protection agreements in relation to these trade agreements as a repulsive phenomenon. They can indeed restrict the democratic decision-making of sovereign states for the benefit of international corporations. I myself am sensitive to this issue in my international anti-smoking work. For example, when Uruguay drew up a stricter tobacco law, to which reference has already been made, under the leadership of the President of Uruguay, who is a cancerist here too, Philip Morris, an American giant company, challenged the Uruguayan state to justice on the basis of an investment agreement between Uruguay and Switzerland. And although Uruguay finally won this case in court, the trial for five years required a considerable amount of money and resources for the administration of a small state. The same Philip Morris, which was also referred to here earlier, also challenged the Australian State Investment Protection Agreement to the right of amendment of the Tobacco Act which introduced standard packaging without the logos of tobacco companies — the same thing that is currently being prepared in Finland. In this spring's social work, it was evident from the statements of the legal scholars that if our social services centre had been incorporated, the subsequent changes in our social services laws could have caused claims from international health giants who own these Finnish companies. We hope that we will now have a model in the spring that Finland will not be able to sue for these changes, and in this respect we must rely on the Minister's assurance of this agreement. It is precisely because of this investment protection that hundreds of non-governmental organisations have protested against this CETA agreement and, in my opinion, in many ways rightly. As has also been said here, Belgium has asked the European Court of Justice for an opinion on whether the proposed Court of Investment is compatible with EU law. The problem is that, according to the case law of the Court of Justice, only EU institutions are allowed to interpret EU law, and the Court of Justice has the highest position in terms of how this agreement would then violate the principle of autonomy of EU law. There is an answer to this. It should also be noted that although it is an agreement with Canada and many here have talked about how Canada is such a good country — as it is — I understand that a company operating in any other country, such as the United States, can challenge Finland if it has a branch in Canada or if it sets up one. This was the case, for example, in this case in Uruguay, where American Philip Morris challenged Uruguay on the basis of his Swiss branch when Switzerland and Uruguay had an investor protection agreement. If I am wrong about this, I hope that the Minister will correct — unfortunately, the Minister is no longer here. Mr. Speaker! For the sake of this agreement and the many major national interests of free trade in general, I therefore support this proposal. As the Minister said, the agreement has improved in many ways, and in this agreement this judicial procedure has also improved because of this court, but it does not, of course, prevent this fundamental problem, namely that international giant companies can only influence the decision-making process at the risk of legal proceedings. I therefore hope that, in practice, this investment protection issue will not easily trigger the rejection or obstruction of wise decisions in this House in the future. At the same time, one can only hope that, in future, Finnish representatives in international fora will do their best not to have such investment protection agreements on the side of future FTAs, which, however, may potentially affect Finland and generally create imbalances between Finland and international major companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u53	Mr President! The opposition does not often get to praise the ministers who present them, but it is now gratifying to note that Mr Mykkänen is well-informed and well prepared for this important debate, for which I thank the absentee. Incidentally, as I have already said, the delegation of the Committee on Finance visited Ottawa as soon as this CETA agreement was conditional. It was clear that Canadian decision-makers and officials were very enthusiastic about CETA and strongly stressed that Canada’s goal is progressive trade agreements. This means that these agreements take care of the environment, working conditions, human and animal rights, health care and something that has become very important to the Canadians, namely respect for the indigenous peoples. So I'm sure our goals are exactly the same. However, the citizens' movement has expressed doubts and opposition to the agreement. There is always cause for doubt, but in all cases it is a credit to the EU that this criticism led to the creation of an independent investment court, even though critics are not pleased either. In any case, Canada accepted this court, which it itself was not even negotiating, completely without question. The reason is that while we were in Ottawa, the Canadians were renegotiating the NAFTA agreement with the United States. That is the absolute limit for them to maintain this much maligned arbitration here, too, and under no circumstances agree to the legal system of one country. I am not sure whether it is worth the hope of Finnish companies to pursue their case in the United States or even in a Canadian court. Of course, it is true that there are risks to this new investment court, but if the fact is that the contractual partners do not trust each other's legal systems, then an impartial investment court is a step forward and worth testing, insofar as we believe in the government's assurance that public services are not threatened. In trade agreements, the European Union has also distinguished between the contractual content itself and the protection of investors. It is therefore entirely possible that we will have trade agreements in the future without dispute resolution, and then it will be different whether they will ever enter into force. In any case, the CETA agreement must now be clarified carefully in this House and, as Mrs Rinne said, in all the committees that have raised their demands and concerns. Section 5.2 of the Government's proposal describes national preparations, and it is clear from this that in Parliament the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities have made demands on Finland's negotiating line, which have been endorsed by a large committee. Such an important decision must, of course, enable these committees to assess the extent to which their demands and concerns have been taken into account. That is why I propose that instead of a proposal from the Council of Presidents, the government's proposal be sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities must give an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u54	Mr President! I think that the free trade agreement between Finland and Canada, which is in the referral debate, is very good and very worthy of support. Of course, there are always risks involved in all trades, there are always disputes in trades, which are then resolved by different procedures, but, in this agreement, there has been a reasonable effort to take those aspects into account. It must also be remembered that when trade is taking place, Canada as a Western civilised state and Finland as a similar civilised state are very likely to be able to settle their disputes, and neither of them are likely to have a superior position in these contexts. I believe that, at the time of the parliamentary procedure, the committees will also carefully examine this matter as to whether this is the case, and if there are any fears, then we can consult experts and think about it in depth. After all, the agreement is typically a mixed agreement, which means that the agreement must be approved both in the Finnish Parliament and in the European Union's respective decision-making bodies, which means that in a way, a single agreement is acceptable to both parties before it comes into force. Therefore, when it is a mixed agreement, it leaves a great deal to be agreed at national level, so that there is no unilateral agreement on the principle of taking or leaving, but when negotiations have been made on different national conditions and national reservations in relation to this agreement, I welcome it with great pleasure. In any case, this CETA agreement will continue to allow Finland to have reservations in matters of social welfare and health care. With this agreement, we will not be forced to privatise or otherwise. Just as it is not possible for food imports, for example, to go from there to come food grown with hormones, such as bull meat and what other livestock products are coming from there. There's no such thing as a possibility. In other words, such national hedging measures with this agreement will remain in force and there will be no possibility of such an open market. This is also where the attitude towards, for example, gmo products on the plant production side arises, and in these too, Finland has had the opportunity to settle matters bilaterally so that Finnish interests and Finnish health policy matters are taken into account at the same time. It is also worth pointing out, Mr President, that when Finland now agrees with Canada on this free trade agreement, it will also be given greater weight to Finland being a very progressive forestry state and a forest-industrial state and having a very strong metal industry, the chemical industry, equipment production, electrical know-how and so on. Canada has almost unlimited forest resources compared to Finland. There is a lot of forest there, and there is probably a 70% utilisation rate in Finland, 60 to 70 per cent, but the amount measured at the hectares used in Canada is a very large majority and there is certainly very little use of forest there, and there is certainly very little export potential in Finland, such as the trade in forest machinery, where Finnish forest machinery — two large manufacturers — is able to exploit and mechanise the entire logging chain. It is being opened up in Canada’s forests by a fantastic market. Another industry in which we should be very active is the mining industry. Finland manufactures highly advanced mining equipment and machines, related technology, chemicals and so on, and Canada, if any country in this world is a very large, significant, even leading country in the mining industry, and in that area we have huge opportunities for cooperation. That is why I welcome this agreement with great joy, bearing in mind, however, that the committees are now dealing with this agreement before it is ratified by Parliament and certainly by the committees and, with the final report from the Committee on Budgets, we will hear what is ultimately the last position of Parliament on this matter. But in any case, this is a very big matter for Finland, and since the United States and Canada are close partners in almost all areas of the economy and society, this trade agreement with Canada will certainly have some effect on cooperation and trade with the United States, because it would be a rather strange situation when Finland is trading very rapidly with Canada, so that it would not attract interest on the south side of the Canadian border, that we could agree on something. Let us hope that the matter will be dealt with smoothly in Parliament and put into effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u55	Mr President! In international trade, it is important that trade is fair to respect human rights at a very high level in respect of the protection of the environment, health and safety at work. In Finland as well as in Europe, we have very strong standards to protect people and the environment. For example, our REACH chemical regulation protects health. We also have a high level of food safety and health and safety at work. All these issues must be covered by free trade as well as free trade agreements. One of the key issues in the CETA agreement under discussion is the protection of investment for companies, the Investment Court. This means that large foreign companies can sue countries for undemocratic justice and threaten them with massive compensation if their investment is threatened. This poses a very serious risk, because there have been situations in the world where countries have been sued, such as in Romania, where the government decided to protect the natural and cultural values of the historic mining village. The decision to protect stopped the open quarry project of the Canadian miner. This company now claims compensation of more than EUR 2 billion from Romania on the basis of investment protection. In fact, even threats of legal action can in itself have the effect, for example, of obstructing better environmental protection legislation. The mining and extractive industries here in Finland are something that must be taken seriously. We have a rather liberal mining law. We have large multinational companies involved in mining. We too may well have a situation similar to that in Romania. There are many municipalities that want to protect the regions instead of taking multinational companies into mining. After all, investment courts relating to investment protection have been dealt with here in Parliament on a number of occasions, for example in connection with the TTIP agreement. At that time, the Parliamentary Legal Committee and the large parliamentary committee took the view that national courts could deal with these disputes between companies and countries. This is what we also put forward in the Committee on the Greens on CETA. Naomi Klein's thinking in her book This will change all the problems associated with international trade agreements, especially from the point of view of the threat it poses to the future of the climate. On a global scale, one of the major challenges for humanity is to stop climate change at 2°C and avoid a creeping ecological disaster, but international climate agreements do not in any way bind countries, while trade agreements, their rules, free trade rules, WTO rules themselves are very binding and allow multinational companies to influence their laws, to sue them. Representative Feldt-Ranta raised concerns about Finnish social and health services. Indeed, the Audit Committee heard about the state of public health services and considered them extensively in connection with, among other things, free trade and the CETA Agreement, and it is very important that here in Finland we can secure our public social and health services in the future. I also have concerns about what Mr Puska pointed out that, through a subsidiary in Canada, multinational companies can even come to Finland under the CETA agreement to invest in Finland. Mr President! I think it is valuable that Mr Mykkänen took seriously the concern that trade agreements over and beyond the objectives of environmental protection and human rights, among other things, and this is the direction towards which we must continue to work globally to ensure that environmental protection, the fight against climate change, is given strong protection in such a way that only short-term trade agreements and trade do not take precedence. We have numerous international examples of how companies have sued countries. We have heard about the operation of the cigarette giant, but the Swedish energy company Vattenfall, for example, is also demanding compensation from the German State of EUR 1.18 billion after Germany has decided to abandon the use of nuclear power. There are therefore a great many important questions on which I hope to see a careful and thorough parliamentary debate. The CETA agreement between Canada and the EU needs to be dealt with carefully and extensively in the various committees and answers to very serious concerns need to be found. I therefore support Mrs Haraka's proposal that this issue be dealt with as extensively as possible here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u56	Mr President! The word "free trade" gives rise to a wide range of ideas, and it may be good to stop and think about whether it is even the right word. Here in Parliament, too, we remember when the whole TTIP agreement came to Finland and how difficult it was for us to get even information about it, not to mention that we would have received information about it in Finnish. If I remember correctly, one person from each parliamentary group was entitled to read the English text made by American lawyers to the bunker of the State Department, and I was one of them. But, as has been said, I think that the European Parliament has done a good job — sometimes I should also thank Brussels if and when something good has been done. So it is a good thing that we have come to terms with the traditional Anglo-Saxon arbitration model, which we cannot even complain about, even the fact that we have had some form of will to form such a judicial system. But there are many of these challenges, and it is quite right that Mrs Harakka, Mrs Rinne and others have been concerned that as many committees as possible can and will be able to pronounce on this agreement. All in all, globalisation is about social rights being retained. This has not always happened. As we have seen well, the benefits of globalisation have sometimes been at a disadvantage. This debate, which we are having now, is very valuable in terms of how social rights, the rights of ordinary people, the rights of working life, but at the same time the rights of the public sector, that is, ultimately the rights of the Finnish state and the interests of Finland, will be realised. They must not be a commodity, and I hope this is not the case. But then on these positive aspects: It has become clear here that Finland's exports from Canada are only EUR 400 million and only EUR 400 million. It's very little. If we think about that knowledge and our geographical location, then we have a lot in common with Canada. You can say that there are not many such nationalities as Canadians, with whom Finns are easy to breathe and talk about even difficult things, and, when it is in order, it is usually easy to trade and do other things. That is why I was very pleased — and here I said to Mr Mykkänen that I very much appreciate it — that he has taken this agreement up on the agenda, visited Canada, and, as we saw today, he was very well prepared for this debate, and thank you very much for that. But if and when you look at Finland's challenges at the moment in international trade, Canada gives us answers and echoes on quite a number of issues. I would now like to highlight a few of them: We talk a lot about Arctic cooperation, related expertise, exports, but at the same time we struggle about how difficult it is for a small Finland to enter North America, Canada — not to mention the United States. I see that Finland now, as a leading player in the Arctic, can very well contribute to the fact that our relationship with Canada will rise not only in existing Arctic knowledge but also in research and development, in related environmental knowledge, and we can do a great deal of practical things together, such as the bioeconomy, in Finnish to put it in Finnish, the pulp industry, the forest industry, when I was in Ottawa last spring with the Constitutional Committee, so it must be said that it was a little bad thing to have one ambassador and a class of diplomat plus other staff doing this whole value chain from Finland to the Canadian market, and I can say that it is not working — and in addition to this, the initial production, the construction of wood, what we have been talking about in recent times, in other words, where Finland gets revenue to finance this welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u57	Mr President! I am concerned whether this CETA agreement contains so-called small print texts which refute the good objectives that Finland, the EU and Canada obviously have. I believe that we must be aware that agreements of this kind may always involve risks that need to be carefully addressed before they can be accepted. There must be nothing in the agreement that lowers Finnish social, labour or environmental standards. They must be in our national hands. In free trade negotiations, it is important for us Finns that public services are completely excluded from the negotiations, while facilitating trade in the private sector within strictly regulated limits. In the terms of free trade in the private sector, one of the most important things for Finland is the obligation to respect all the fundamental rights of workers agreed at the International Labour Organisation (ILO). This obligation has been included in all EU agreements. Finland's goal must be that EU-Canada agreements and possibly in the future US agreements should go one step further and that they should be sanctioned. I believe that this objective is supported by both the European Parliament and the US Congress, I do not know about Canada. I hope that the Finnish Government and the European Commission will also support it. Mr President! We have raised many risks in this debate. I hope the Minister will take them very seriously. Of course, these free trade agreements are not just bad. They can bring us commercial growth and thus work for Finns. Perhaps the agreement would make it easier for Canada to sell Finnish icebreakers, the best icebreakers in the world. An analysis of the effects of the Korea Agreement has been carried out in the European Commission, where negative effects have been shown to be small, while, for example, Finland's exports to Korea have increased by 37% as a result of the agreement, thereby strengthening our employment in the export sector. The sensitive issue is the liberalisation of trade with countries with very low social standards. These countries must be required to make substantial improvements to standards as a condition for trade liberalisation. This was done in the EU-Vietnam Agreement. If human rights are not safeguarded, then the whole agreement must be withdrawn. On the other hand, in the context of Colombia, for example, there was little demand for improvements, even though the situation in the country was shocking. And to Guatemala, the EU granted GSP+ trade preferences while trade unionists were being killed. In the light of these experiences, Finland needs to call for greater attention to be paid to the issue of working life in the EU's trade policy. This economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and its Member States therefore contains, in addition to the issues to be supported, a number of tricky issues which Parliament's committees must carefully assess. That is why I support Mr Haraka's proposal to extend the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u58	Mr President! When I listened to Mr Skinner — he has now left — think about what would be a good alternative to the word 'free trade', it could be an unhindered trade, because of course no trade can be completely free, but there are always legislative restrictions. This is what I'm thinking. He told us about the visit of the Constitutional Committee to Canada, and it must also be said that it seemed like a very brotherly nation in the sense that there was some such feeling of Finnishism. Perhaps in that sense I do not share the concern that, in this agreement, we have particular concerns about the working conditions and labour law of the counter-contracting party, for example Canada. At least I don't have any information about this — you can educate me if I'm wrong. The good thing about this, of course, is that if you think about companies and how much they are struggling with tariffs and different standards, it is a good thing that it will be easier and that these barriers will be removed. As Mr Mykkänen said, bioeconomy and forest management, among others, have a great deal of potential. This is, of course, a good thing, that is nothing. But, of course, these serious concerns have been raised here today in a number of speeches, and they need to be carefully considered and discussed. At least it is not enough for me, as it is for some here, for the minister now to confirm that these are being interpreted in this way and this is the case. I don't think that's enough. After all, we in this Parliament must be able to study those matters and consult experts and sort things out with certainty, and not just someone here in the box is now convincing us, and that is the end of it, and when we come back to it in years' time, if it wasn't as the Minister said it was, then perhaps the minister is in Brussels at that moment, and then we think that this is what happened. We must always be concerned if we are to remove the power of decision from Finland and the sovereign state. That is why I did not quite understand when some people here were talking about protectionism or nationalism raising their heads, but at the same time even the same people may have such discussions that it is good to ensure that the power of decision remains in our hands and what the guarantees of legal protection are. Somehow it seems a little contradictory. On the other hand, every time we make agreements — every single one of us makes a deal — it is, of course, considered appropriate for itself. It doesn't make any sense that even if I represent a group and I go there to fit in, and then I announce that I agreed to everything the others said, and isn't it great that I don't seem to be in any way awkward? This is what I wanted to do when it bothers me not to stand up for itself and to defend the national interest, that it is already something of an unconventional and not so much a screaming issue. I quite agree that this should be dealt with extensively in the committees now, precisely because, as I said, it is not enough for me to be assured by the Minister that there will be no problems with the wars or environmental problems. I want a proper account of it, and I think there may be a very wide-ranging discussion here. It was hoped that this should be done quickly, but if this is the case now — whether Mr Arhinmäki, who spoke up to a year and a half, which may take up to this Belgian request for the interpretation of EU law — we certainly have no need for life and we really have the opportunity to examine this in peace. It is a pity that I did not receive an answer from the Minister when I am genuinely interested and we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have also raised the issue of publicity in the context of free trade agreements. In Finland, we have very public court proceedings and documents, and I did not receive an answer as to how the media and others receive information and whether the person himself receives sufficient information. For us, the publicity of the parties is self-evident, but I am not entirely convinced that it is quite clear in all the other countries that you know, even as a party, what all the documents there are behind the decision-making process, and you will then be able to comment on them in any way. Environmental protection was also mentioned separately in some of the speeches. I agree with you: at least when you look at this board proposal, then there are very things like this "hope and commitment and recognition of different levels of environmental protection". It is, of course, something like this, which sounds awfully great, but when we get there in practice, we have examples of the mining industry, for example, from Finland itself. I agree with what Karimäki, the representative of the Greens, said that we have one of the most liberal mining laws in the world. It is true that we have as the doors are wide open, that we welcome you to take advantage of the Finnish country. We could sometimes think a little more about that national interest. It is wonderful and sensible to work together and to promote exports and imports, but you can think about it yourself, you don't have to be ashamed of it. That is why I would like to see an end to saying in every case that we should not think about our own interests when, in every single agreement, the other party considers that it is also reasonable for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u59	Mr President! Herr Talman! I think it makes sense to promote efforts to create a multilateral framework for international investment which is in line with the interests of both developing and industrialised countries but which respect international agreements on the environment, fair work and human rights. This CETA agreement has benefits, but it also presents major risks, in particular with regard to social and health services, the environment and fair working life. Mr Hoskonen said in his own speech that trade always involves risks, but we, the representatives of the Finnish people, must, of course, consider these risks for taxpayers, for the citizens, before we take decisions, do not commit ourselves to agreements that take a big risk as taxpayers' representatives, or we know what kind of risk we are taking. What worries me most in this agreement is the irreversibility contained in it. Mr President! It is true that the agreement does not prevent the amendment of national legislation and the withdrawal of the services covered by it from the market and from returning to public production. Thus, Finland could continue to decide how public services, such as social and health services, should be organised and funded, but this should be done within the framework of the rules on the treatment of investors, and these new decisions may lead to claims for compensation. Changes in the service system may give private operators already on the market the opportunity to seek compensation in the event of a change in the expected return or withdrawal. Mr President! I therefore consider it the biggest problem that the investment protection provided for in the agreement makes it virtually impossible for any withdrawal of the marketing steps. Personally, I cannot think of taking an open bill with a price tag I do not know, and I myself do not think that, as a representative of the taxpayer, I could take such a risk openly. In order to minimise this and other risks, the proposal must be made very clear during the parliamentary procedure, and I therefore support Mrs Haraka's proposal for a wide-ranging committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u60	Mr President! After all, in Belgium last October, the Walloon Regional Parliament rose to oppose the EU-Canada CETA agreement, on the basis of this job security for the agricultural population. Employment and labour rights may be one of the battles. I don't know, because I haven't read this, and everybody here is pretty insecure. Exports to Canada and imports from Canada amounted to around EUR 400 million last year. Yesterday there was a debate on Finland's weak export conditions. Knowing that there are about 500 million people in Europe who are competing with the EU and Canada and that there are just under 40 million people in Canada again, there is now a need in Finland for those powerful export promoters and women to be involved in this joint cake. At least I am still very uncertain about this whole agreement: what good is there in it, whether it is good or bad? When there is a debate in committee, everyone can then press the right button in the future. This one's short.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u61	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs, to which the Economic Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u62	Mr President, ärade talman! The big project of the government, or indeed the large project of Finland as a whole, is to raise the employment rate to at least 72%, but later also to the Nordic level to 75%, so that the welfare services and current transfers that have emerged in the recent debate can be financed at an adequate level without debt money. In order to increase the employment rate, all the measures that can be found in the toolbox must now be taken, both by strengthening entrepreneurship and by improving incentives for employment and job take-up. One of the key issues is the problem of over-indebtedness and the incentive traps associated with it. There are over 200,000 over-indebted people in Finland, of which tens of thousands are unemployed, and for many people this is an incentive trap. If enforcement takes too much out of pay, this will be an incentive problem. According to the present proposal, enforcement debtors who have received unemployment benefits for at least one year would be entitled to a deferral of pay for the purposes of their employment. It would take half the duration of the employment, but not more than 6 months. Persons whose net income is low, i.e. those who are covered by the so-called income limit gauge, could be deferred. According to the proposal, the enforcement officer could refuse to grant a deferral only if the debtor had already been granted a deferral and a new deferral would seriously jeopardise the creditor's right to payment. Thus, during the postponement, no foreclosure would be carried out at all. The matter would remain pending the end of the deferral and the suspension would not result in a default marking on the debtor. In the case of debtors who have not been able to benefit from unemployment benefits for at least one year or whose income exceeds the defined threshold, the deferral of bail would remain discretionary as it is at present. In this case, a maximum of half of the duration of the employment could be granted, but not more than 4 months. The proposal also aims to encourage people who have been unemployed for a long time to employ themselves as entrepreneurs. If a long-term unemployed person is employed as an entrepreneur, the output of the business could be liquidated less than one-sixth of the main rule. In other words, the proposal also includes support for entrepreneurship. The employment impact of the proposal is likely to be less than 1000 per year. As a result of the impact on employment, the annual net saving for public finances would be close on EUR 7 million. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u63	Mr President! The Government proposes that the enforcement curve should be changed to employment in order to dismantle the incentive traps. This is a good and opportune presentation from the good old time when the Finns were still in the government and the government’s value base was in order to make such presentations. If a person is subjected to an enforcement procedure, sometimes even because of pure damage, then the accumulation of interest and the portion of the salary that is being cut may rob a person of the rest of the will to work. If there is clearly a desire to work or a desire to pursue a business, it is easy to support a reduction in the enforcement procedure. This issue must be viewed from the perspective of society as a whole as well as from a human perspective, and it is not in the interests of either man or society that over-indebtedness and debt imprisonment paralyse work and enterprise. In this context, it might also be worthwhile to change the limits of protection, but this is also a good start.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u64	Mr President! Thousands of entrepreneurs are still paying for the recession caused by the collapse of the economy in the 1990s. It was a rough situation back then. It even led to several suicides. At the end of 1994, 457,000 Finns were in the enforcement. I would ask the government: what can be done today for these people? Let me take an example: a 74-year-old pensioner woman from Eastern Finland still pays this debt from her small shop for her own small pension of EUR 278 per month. Women in particular then and then suffer even more from mental health problems than men. That was such a tough situation, and the family and the children had to be taken care of at home. However, my real question to the Minister of Justice is this: When a person is imprisoned in debt — we already have 400,000 default marks — of course most people are trying to get their lives in order and payments paid. When they succeed, it is still two years, there may be up to three years, the name in the register that he has been overly indebted. It limits a person's life. Couldn't we shorten that time for a year at the most? What's the point of that name being there for two or three years?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u65	Mr President! As the Minister's speech has shown, this applies to thousands of people in Finland, and the government's proposal to change this enforcement cycle is to be welcomed and good. It is also good that it is encouraging both for the individual and then for society. The right of deferral would therefore apply to debtors who have received unemployment benefit within the meaning of the Unemployment Insurance Act for at least 258 days. It is good that the draft law states that even if you did not receive that benefit continuously, this can nevertheless be taken into account. I understand that the Ministry of Justice has made a proposal specifically on matters relating to the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the modification of the enforcement cycle, but we still have a problem in the Unemployment Protection Act with a spouse living in the same household as an entrepreneur or children aged 18 or over, even if they were employees, the Unemployment Protection Act does not recognise them as employees, i.e. they are not entitled to unemployment benefit. It may therefore be — and I would ask Mr Häkkkäs, is it not the case — that this does not apply to all entrepreneurs, even if they are unemployed job seekers, and the spouse of the entrepreneur and children under the age of 18. Is it possible and have you had a debate in the direction of the Ministry of Social Affairs or otherwise within the government that this amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act could also be made during this term of government and that injustice would be removed from the Unemployment Protection Act? But, as I said, in itself and as such, this proposal is good in terms of unemployment benefit for employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u66	Mr President! I believe that the value base of this government is still in place and even particularly good, given the changed human circumstances. That government proposal is particularly justified when assessing the problems of the unemployed today. In my own work, I have encountered people who become my client and have been driven by unemployment into various debt spirals. Now they are finally going to have help in this direction, especially with a government focused on dismantling the unemployment traps. In this model, discretion is also possible, which means that even though the payment of unemployment benefit has not lasted more than that year, the bailiff can then, with his judgment, grant such benefits. That consideration is particularly important. I would see that this amendment of the law has far-reaching effects and encourages people to seek employment, even though they are overly indebted, not as a deterrent, but as an incentive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u67	Mr President! Regrettably, many people spend more than income. When this happens, it often happens that creditors demand their claims through enforcement. When a debtor comes into enforcement, good advice is needed. If the debtor has regular income, the vouti charges the proceeds to the excess of the statutory protection component each month for money that is out of the debtor’s own use. Many times the debtor does not even have regular income but lives on the basis of various benefits and benefits. If there is a higher amount of debt in the enforcement, many think it is no longer worth taking the job, because part of the salary goes into enforcement. A debtor who thinks in this way has already given up and does not intend to pay his debt. The person has been captured by a so-called incentive trap. Not all debtors, however, feel this way, but many have a genuine desire to pay their debts and to balance their finances anyway. A bill has been drawn up for such persons with the aim of dismantling precisely this type of incentive trap. If implemented, the law would make it possible for an enforcement debtor who is subject to an income relief measure and who has received unemployment benefit for at least one year to be entitled to a deferral of a maximum of six months in respect of the payment of wages. In the case of other debtors, the enforcement officer could grant a deferral of up to four months. This is an excellent reform and will significantly facilitate the position of the debtor. It is no longer a good time to refuse work, at least on the basis of the fact that the salary is being paid. It is worth taking the job now, and if you have done your job well for six months, you may continue and become stable. In this way, the debtor will gradually return to being the master or queen of his purse. Mr President! I warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u68	Mr President! When it comes to such workers who always think that it is worth doing work when it is paid normal, good wages and working hours are almost full weekly working hours, so that there will not be a very long period of time there, then I think that this government proposal is good in such a way that it enables it to work now and gives the opportunity to take up work when it is able to pass on these own collection costs four months at a time. It will then be possible to improve this situation by working, and I think it is a good thing that this is the case. It will then, in a sense, also improve the possibility of working longer-term, make it easier to get started and start working on exports. And then, on the other hand, it generates tax revenue, and society gets that money back there, and then there is something a little more to the reduction. What I would have liked is to have considered an increase in the share of protection, because that EUR 672 is a small sum. When it costs other expenses, there is not much to live by, so that perhaps there could have been a slightly larger increase in the share of protection, perhaps the 900 euros would have been such a clearer sum. Then, if we look at these negative effects of the postponement, then I think it is nothing more than that increase in interest rates, that is the only weak thing, and I do not see that as a very bad thing. In my opinion, this maximum six-month delay in enforcement gives a certain signal that it is easier to accept a job. I consider this to be a reasonably good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u69	Mr President! As indicated above, this proposal proposes the facilitation of enforcement in the enforcement cycle, which is intended to reduce employment-related incentive traps in enforcement, thereby contributing to the employment of the enforcement debtor in paid employment or as an entrepreneur. These enforcement-related incentive traps have been identified as a problem and the proposal will facilitate the status of the enforcement debtor. Employment of the debtor is usually also in the creditor’s interest. This proposal is a clear improvement on the current situation, and I thank Minister Häkkä for bringing this before us, and I am sure that this proposal will receive its due consideration in that Committee on Legal Affairs. In 2016, some 44,000 of the 214,000 enforcement debtors were classified as unemployed. The incentive traps of enforcement are a reason that has been thought to undermine the motivation to seek work. At the same time, however, it must be stressed that the problem of the enforcement incentive traps has not only been solved by this government proposal, and I believe that further examination is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u70	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Häkkänen, for a good, clear presentation of the law. This change in the enforcement cycle gives the unemployed person the opportunity to postpone the enforcement of his or her salary and therefore encourages work. This is also an incentive to try. This is a human change, a clear improvement, it concerns thousands and it is a very worthy proposal. We also have a lot of over-debted guaranteed pensioners. Over-indebtedness is a human tragedy for everyone who has experienced it, both personal and intimate. Have you, Minister Häkkänen, assessed in the government how we could facilitate, among other things, the situation of over-indebted guaranteed pensioners? They will then have very low incomes for use and living after enforcement. Has the government considered other broader ways of facilitating the situation of the over-indebted?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u71	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal has a positive impact on the status of enforcement debtors and also appears well weighed, thanks to the Minister. The enforcement debtors now receive an incentive to accept the work and relief, for example, to cover the single costs of starting work. It is only reasonable and human that enforcement debtors do not lead to unreasonable challenges that are then solved elsewhere, when no one wins. The aim must also be to put the financial situation of a person on track. Of course, it is difficult to assess the impact of the proposal on employment, and the response of the unemployed to financial incentives is still rather weak. I would hope that this will be followed up and then perhaps we will come back after we have some results on how the law will work. I would like to ask the Minister if you intend to do this. Furthermore, I would like to see us at all paying attention to the dismantling of the booty traps from now on. I was just wondering whether the Minister might already have in mind any possible future openings that we could make in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u72	Mr President! There are hundreds of thousands of Finns in enforcement, as has been pointed out here, and unfortunately children are also debtors of enforcement. This government proposal is a small step for the better, but I think it is still too small. As we all know, the situation at the moment is really unreasonable because the debtor cannot go to work, because after the enforcement, there would be less money to live with than when living on basic income. So it is a good thing that this is a minor correction. However, there are so many other shortcomings in this enforcement procedure that I believe that the entire law on enforcement should be reformed for the better. One of the major problems is the high interest rates, as well as the protective portion that has been mentioned here today. In practice, those who are in a debt cycle do not have the opportunity to get rid of their debts. Even if the amount of the debt capital itself has already been paid, the interest rates are so high that the debt amount is increasing and it is very difficult to get rid of it. I would ask the Minister whether interest is now on the debt while the person receives this deferral after employment. If this is the case, then the debt will increase the interest rate, it can be a really large sum even during this postponement, and will it in practice benefit? Does the government intend to amend this law on enforcement in such a way as to significantly reduce these interest rates and increase this percentage of protection? In addition, the question whether the Minister intends in any way to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u73	Mr President! The proposed law is also very good and logical from the point of view of the government programme, which considers that any action to improve employment, so as to bring it closer to 75%, is very welcome. We talked about this bill yesterday in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and it was quite a good reception for experts as well. Of course, there are questions, as the speeches that have already been made here have shown, for example, in the case of guaranteed pensioners and other very low incomes: have they, in a way, been well taken into account in their situation, that they will also be able to cope better afterwards? Then, too, the situation of entrepreneurs: how are their livelihoods and incomes taken into account here? There are many kinds of entrepreneurs, side-timers and full-time employees, and sometimes it is a little unclear how their income is calculated, and then how their family members’ income is calculated and taken into account here. But as a whole, a very good and welcome presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u74	Mr President! A representative of mine. Mr Semi raised the issue of an increase in the protection component. This increase in the protection component has been considered by many others. However, the situation is that many times raising the protective component instead of making it easier only complicates the position of the debtor, namely that the monthly protective portion is now EUR 672 30 cents for the debtor and EUR 241 20 cents for each dependant. If, for example, the protection rate were increased to EUR 900 for the debtor, more than 17000 persons would be excluded from enforcement measures and would be identified in the registers of the authorities as a "risk of wealth". This asset protection mark is the worst possible for the debtor, as the person who has received the asset protection mark falls outside the scope of all credit operations. For this reason, it is much better for the debtor to be in the process of enforcement even longer than falling out of that circle with a declaration of insecurity. There is still hope for the person in the enforcement, but there is little hope for a balanced economy for those who have received the declaration of insecurity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u75	And the minister... — Mr Mäkelä asked for the floor before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u76	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here, and I would really like to share this concern about the fact that the position of self-employed families — the spouses of entrepreneurs and children under the age of 18 who live at home — should be taken into account when considering how different groups of people are treated and what kind of rights will then be created as a result of these changes. This change in the enforcement law itself is very important and, as has been shown here, it is good to make all the thresholds that make it easier to accept work lower.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u77	And now the minister has three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u78	Mr President! First of all, thank you very much, a little in the spirit of Finland's 100th anniversary. I have not heard so much praise in this Chamber in some time. It is good that the problems of public debt are largely left to right as a matter of common concern for all of us in this Chamber, because this is a serious problem, a growing challenge. The ways in which payments are being paid are becoming increasingly easy in the digital world and the supply of credit is increasing, and these problems need to be dealt with even more strongly in this Chamber on a common front, because the problem is getting worse. If we look only at the debt of the state or public administration, that is not enough; the indebtedness of citizens and households is at least as big and big a challenge and a problem. So thank you for the compliments on the side. That was very warm. We will also be taking forward other entities that prevent over-indebtedness, but also those related to after-indebtedness. At the Ministry of Justice, we consider the importance of the length of payment default marking: what does it have to do with access to credit, with success, with a clean start. We are in the process of an investigation into the entrepreneur's personal bankruptcy, which is intended to free an honest entrepreneurial person from personal debt liability and thus to let him back on the path of entrepreneurship. A positive credit register, where the person’s debts would be more visible to, inter alia, consumer credit providers, which would increase responsibility and raise awareness of the total debts of persons, could prevent debt. For example, tightening the regulation of short-term credit, interest rates on consumer credit, is also on my agenda and on the table, and that is something that we will be trying to bring forward in the near future. — — — — Which means we're moving forward on several fronts. Well, to this protective section. Many here mentioned that the protection rate should also have been increased, but if the protection rate for enforcement had been increased, it would in practice lead to problems in which more and more Finns would have to be found bankrupt in the enforcement procedure and therefore uncreditworthy. In practice, this problem would lead to an increasing number of people not necessarily even getting a rental dwelling in the future, not necessarily getting a proper loan or credit from the bank, which would in fact lead to twice as much problems for people who are deprived and disadvantaged. So now it is good to remember that there are at least two sides to all of this. The increase in the protection rate would also have led to a very inefficient dismantling of the incentive traps, i.e. it would also have been targeted at high incomes. This project was precisely about me wanting this to be targeted at people with low incomes who have the incentive trap at its highest level. It is precisely the question that this is better targeted at those on low incomes, those for whom it is actually an incentive trap. This is not necessarily an incentive trap for an engineer who earns ten grand. Well, then there's the question of seniority. The problem is true, but this project is intended to strengthen employment and is therefore limited to people of working age.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You raised the difficulty of getting this rental dwelling if there is an enforcement mark and the problem with the protection part. I would like to ask you this in relation to whether you are thinking about the fact that at the moment we do not have people who have suffered a default or have been subject to enforcement, in a way, to what we consider to be fundamental rights, such as home insurance for a rental dwelling, an electricity contract and a water contract. Do you have such things coming as a follow-up to this good step that is now under discussion?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u80	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for that reply. In my recent speech, I raised the shortcomings within that unemployment security law and asked whether the government had had a debate or whether it was going to have a discussion with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs, but that is indeed a matter for the Ministry of Employment, that is to say Minister Lindström. This amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act is not really mentioned here, of course, because it is a question of amending the law on the enforcement cycle, but I would like the Minister to take as a food the fact that during the coming government term the Unemployment Protection Act will also raise these major shortcomings in relation to this right of the spouse of the entrepreneur and of children under the age of 18 and of children under the age of 18 living at home as rights under the Unemployment Protection Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u81	One more minute on the spot for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u82	Mr President! Yes, just now, due to a lack of time, I did not have time to answer all the questions. Perhaps first of all, what kind of problems are there for citizens to face in the wider sense of enforcement or a decision or statement of non-credit. That causes a huge number of problems in everyday matters, living, getting credit, even getting a job, in some cases. However, it should be borne in mind that the hallmark of organised society is also that the financial markets work and that they work in such a way that we know if a person has not settled some of his payments or debt on time. Such a system exists because those who handle properly also benefit from having handled properly, that is to say, it is a bit of a two-piped thing. The question of social security for an entrepreneur is an extremely important, topical issue. I promise that this within the government will at least be seen in a diverse way from the point of view of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, that, in the context of a growing and renewed wave of entrepreneurship, we will also take account of the new forms of entrepreneurship in this treatment of enforcement, that they will also be treated equally, but I will also encourage the Committee on Legal Affairs to monitor this in the hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u83	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u84	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion on the scrapping premium, the purchase aid for electric cars and conversion aid is linked to measures aimed at reducing emissions from transport and meeting the challenges posed by climate change. By 2030, the transport sector will have to reduce emissions by 50% compared to the 2005 situation. An amount of EUR 8 million has been earmarked for the grant in the form of a scrapping premium for the 2018 budget. A total of EUR 6 million has been set aside for aid for the purchase of electric cars and for the conversion of passenger cars into gas and ethanol for the period 2018 to 2021. The proposal proposes a scrapping premium for private individuals for the purchase of a new low-emission passenger car. The scrapping premium would be granted when supplying a car over 10 years old for scrapping and replacing it with a new passenger car with a maximum limit value of 110 grams per kilometre or powered by ethanol, gas or electricity. The scrapping premium would be paid at EUR 1000 or EUR 2000 depending on the driving force of the acquired car. The aim of the scrapping premium would be to speed up the renewal of the car fleet. One of the proposals relates to the electrification of transport. According to the proposal, the acquisition aid would be paid to private persons for the purchase of an electric car or for more than 3 years for rental. The aid would be paid for an electric car worth EUR 2000 for the next 4 years. In addition, the proposal proposes conversion aid for private individuals to convert a passenger car into gas or ethanol. Conversion aid would be paid at EUR 1000 for gas-fired conversion and EUR 200 for ethanol-fired conversion. The aim of the conversion aid is also to promote the use of alternative fuels in the old car fleet. Mr President! I hope that the Government's proposal will receive a positive response here in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u85	Mr President! Prime Minister Juha The Sipilä Government, led by Minister Berner, has really tackled the fact that the reduction of emissions in traffic is planned in Finland and these international climate and energy measures will also be implemented in Finland. It is therefore important that the government's proposal on the scrapping premium and the purchase aid for electric cars and the aid for the conversion of passenger cars into gas or ethanol is now available in Parliament. These objectives are now being made concrete. Why, then, have these measures been taken? The Finnish car fleet is one of the oldest in Europe and one of the oldest in the Nordic countries. The renewal of the car fleet to a lower level of emissions is necessary in order to achieve climate objectives. So we are also affected by those international climates. Transport produces about 40 per cent of the greenhouse gas emissions from the burden-sharing sector in Finland, while around 90 per cent of domestic transport emissions are generated by road transport and 58 per cent of road transport emissions by passenger car. The national energy and climate strategy, which has been adopted here in Parliament, has stated that we are heading towards a 50% reduction in transport emissions in 2030. This means a reduction of 3.6 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions. It is a very large sum and means a lot of different actions. Well, what can this Chamber, the Parliament, use as their tools? There is taxation, i.e. car tax, excise tax, and then fuel tax if you want to use it. There is regulation, e.g. implementation of charging infrastructure for new dwellings, blocks of flats or terraced houses. Or these are the subsidies that are being discussed here today in Parliament. The purpose of state subsidies is to influence consumer behaviour in a way that speeds up the transition to low-emission transport. So small investments, such as these procurement grants, will start the process and bring development to the event. How have these actions been selected? Firstly, in its spending limits decisions, the Government has earmarked an additional 100 million funds for 2018 to 2021 and will then implement various measures for lower-emission mobility, agriculture and other regions in different sectors. Then we have a parliamentary working group on the financing of the transport network, whose first task was to make a proposal in its interim report to achieve precisely these objectives of reducing emissions from transport, and these were our output, and they have then been brought here as a government proposal for a decision by Parliament. It is particularly important that the car scrapping premium should now be brought forward, because already in 2015 we had an experiment on the scrapping premium and this experiment has good results. It was then that a lot of very old, middle-aged cars were scrapped and then new cars were bought. But, first of all, this proposal puts EUR 8 million in money for the implementation of the scrapping premium. It must be a car over 10 years old, then replaced by a car with less emissions, and the less emissions, the bigger this scrapping premium will be. Secondly, there is a need for support for the purchase of electronic passenger cars because we have the objective that by 2030 the share of electric cars in cars will increase by at least 250,000 electric cars. The aid does not cover downloadable or traditional hybrids, but only full electric cars. EUR 2000 shall be granted for the purchase or long-term rental of a full electric car for a period of at least three years. It is estimated that around 1875 new full electric cars will be available for transport thanks to this purchase aid, at this annual level. Thirdly, the government's proposal provides for conversion aid for the use of gas or ethanol in passenger cars, which also responds to the call that is being sought in the biogas and bioethanol sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u86	Let us take a few speeches when there happens to be speakers from different groups. Then there will be a debate, because the Minister is still there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u87	Mr President! There are a number of good and worthy, albeit rather moderate, proposals in this proposal. We have worked on these together among the parliamentary groups in the parliamentary transport network working group and have now produced a proposal with a number of elements. It is therefore now proposed to pay the old car scrapping premium in connection with the purchase of a new car, the purchase aid for electric cars and other steps towards a more sustainable transport policy. In this speech, I am raising the general views of the Green Parliamentary Group, which can be summed up in such a way that we will take these proposals further in the future, although we are quite happy that these proposals are here today. Some of us have also drawn attention to our alternative budget. According to the proposal, the old car will have a scrapping premium of EUR 1000 if the car is powered by an internal combustion engine and its emissions are less than 110 grams per kilometre, referring to the acquisition of a new one, apparently. The premium shall be EUR 2000 if the propulsion is either wholly or partly high-alloy ethanol, electricity, natural gas or biogas. An amount of EUR 8 million has been earmarked for the scrapping premium and will be valid until the end of August 18. As a principle, it is very good that the renewal of the old Finnish car fleet is accelerated to a lower level of emissions. However, we consider the emission limit set at 110 grams per kilometre to be too high, for example. The EU emission limit value for car manufacturers in 20 years is 95 grams per kilometre. In future, the scrapping premium should be taken further. For example, in possible further years it could only be granted to promote the purchase of zero-emission vehicles. We also consider the payment of the scrapping premium in the form of public transport vouchers to be a discretionary idea. Then the purchase aid for electric cars. According to the proposal, the purchase aid will be paid to full electric cars between EUR 2000 and EUR 21. However, there is no joint scrapping premium and purchasing aid for electric cars. The most expensive electric cars, such as most Teslat, are excluded from the aid, as the aid is only available for the purchase of a car costing EUR 50000 at maximum. The aid is also granted for the long-term rental of a car, which makes sense — even the ways of driving change. Of course, the aid cannot be considered particularly generous, since Sweden, for example, pays SEK 40000, or approximately EUR 4100, for the purchase of full electric cars. In addition, we Greens propose in our alternative budget a fixed five-year exemption from both car and vehicle taxes for new electric cars. The government proposal estimates that by 21 C.E., 1875 new electric cars will arrive in Finland. It is perhaps even more a question of giving a symbolic example; this amount should, of course, be increased further. It is about promoting new technologies and perhaps not so much about climate policy, but it is a good direction. In some other countries, such as Sweden, there has also been talk of aid for the purchase of electric bicycles. This should also be considered in Finland, at least in areas where the issue is topical. One detail in the government's proposal is also the conversion aid for the conversion of cars into gas-fuelled and high-alloy ethanol-fuelled. It is a matter of small sums and car numbers, but on the other hand, it is important that everyone can promote a more sustainable way of life easily in their everyday lives, without the size of the purse being determined by everything. Sum summarum: These are justified and necessary steps. At the same time, however, we must be aware that climate change is not waiting and that we are facing challenges in this country in order to achieve our emission reduction targets in virtually all sectors of society. In this respect, the transport sector must continue to be the subject of special consideration, since it will certainly be asked whether these objectives we have decided on are still sufficient. In other words, we will be happy to look at these guidelines together in the near future when we receive follow-up information, and it is hoped that all the good that exists in these guidelines will be made maximum use.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u88	Still representatives of Kulmala and Mäkelä, followed by the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u89	Mr President! The Finnish car fleet is one of the oldest in the European Union. The aim of this excellent proposal is to promote the renewal of the car fleet and reduce emissions from transport. At the same time, the expansion of alternative driving forces in transport will be promoted. That is probably the aim of all of us in this House. The scrapping premium will only be in place until 31 August 2018, but I do not think that the money will last until then, because it ran out last time. With the scrapping premium, it is estimated that 7400 new passenger cars will be sold, of which 3300 would be cars that would not have been purchased without the scrapping premium but would instead be operated by old, higher-emission cars. This is therefore also one of the most important environmental actions of the year for the climate. Of course, it can be criticised that the campaign does not remove the oldest cars from traffic, because they cannot afford to buy a new car even with the $1,500 scrapping premium. However, I know people who have already been so excited about this performance that they have been to the car dealership to settle a new car. If you do not think about environmental reasons, it is not worth taking a car worth more than a scrapping premium for your own economy to scrap. That would be foolish financially, even if it wasn't wise. According to Trafi’s follow-up study, the scrapping premium used in 2015 meant that the average age of cars leaving traffic was 18.6 years and the scrapping premium was mostly used by a woman but more profitable and older than by other car owners over 10 years old. Their average income was lower than the average income of the owners of the new car, and they bought a cheaper car than the average of the buyers of the new car, indicating that there have been low-income buyers. Nearly 40% of those who used the scrapping fee had never bought a new car before. So why be jealous if the neighbor’s lady finally buys her old car to replace her new, affordable car, her first and perhaps last life?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u90	Mr President! The car scrapping premium will probably stimulate the car trade in early 2018 as long as there is money and reform of our fleet, which is known to be one of the oldest in Europe, even though driving conditions are then the most challenging in Europe. Passenger car policy in this country has never been done above safety and appropriateness; rather, the driver has been a dairy cow who is taxed and punished. Since the scrapping premium is to be valid only until the end of August 2018, I wonder if the government has already prepared and taken into account whether, after all, this is only a temporary market disturbance for the whole 2018 car dealership? At the same time, I would like to point out the fact that the scrapping premium does not actually make it easier for many people on low incomes to drive, because there is no money to buy a new car despite the reward, even if it is tripled. I would also like to say that zero-emission vehicles do not exist, but that the life cycle of an electric car and the production of energy for it will inevitably produce emissions. In these emissions initiatives, we should forget the cloud castles and fantasies that the car fleet would actually be reformed at the planned pace, especially as the EU currently protects the interests of the car industry in its large countries and puts pressure on us to increase the cost of motoring even further.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u91	Now we can have a little debut. I would now ask those Members who wish to make a reply here on behalf of the Minister, mainly the Minister, perhaps other speakers, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u92	Mr President! The Social Democrats are pleased because, in our previous alternative budget, we proposed a scrapping premium and aid for the purchase of electric cars. It is great that the government took them on its own programme and with exactly the same amounts as we presented last autumn. And when we go backwards, the minister may perhaps remember that two years ago I have already asked a question about the support for electric motoring. It's a great day today. But it is also good that the government is pursuing the line that the SDP was taking in the Parliamentary Transport Network Committee, that it is not only supporting the perhaps wealthy electric motorists in the capital region, but also the conversion of engines to ethanol and gas. The second question is whether these conditions are too generous. First, as regards propulsion, it is mentioned that the conditions for aid are that the second propulsion is electricity, ethanol or gas. This makes it possible for old-fashioned hybrid cars to be limited to plug-ins, so this is where the committee will probably be making corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u93	Mr President! This proposal is a long-awaited and very welcome one, and as a member of the Parliamentary Transport Networks Group, I am pleased that the working group received a compromise proposal from the government on this issue and that it is now being applied here. After all, the scrapping premium is not a new thing, it was already in use during the previous parliamentary term, and then its benefits were unquestionable: the state received more tax revenue, cars traded more than average, especially those with low incomes, and the cars to which they were traded were small, low-emission cars, which means that everyone actually won here. Now this is to be done again, and it is good that the government has taken action. The previous speech drew attention to the CO2 limit. After all, this was the subject of a debate in preparation, and 110 grams came from the fact that the range in it and below it is comprehensive and would not recommend a particular brand or model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u94	Mr President! This is indeed a welcome solution, and I am also pleased with the answer that has been given through the discussions and the government has received that the car industry and car dealers will also be involved in this exercise. But one of my concerns is that there are some ambiguities here, including this hybrid question, whether it is a normal hybrid or a plug-in hybrid. This should give car dealers the right, clear information as soon as possible that they are able to handle these. So the question is: have we also focused on information? And when we deal with these issues in committee, we will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u95	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä here described the situation that we in Finland actually force our cars to move to such different solutions, which may be expensive from the consumer's point of view, but this is not a Finnish phenomenon. This is happening more and more in the European Union and, in my opinion, I have also seen that the car industry itself has put its share in the effort and has also forced its own production to become increasingly low-emission. The European Commission, too, with its own new legislative package, the directive, is forcing car manufacturers to develop more low-emission engines. This is the trend, whether it is desired or not. But, in fact, I could ask the Minister: when these are actually the first steps that are being taken and implemented in the form of a support policy, would it be possible, for example, to provide aid for the purchase of contract cars in order to influence the use of low-emission fuel?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u96	Mr President! Now we have to thank the government and the minister. This is in line with the guidelines of this parliamentary working party, as has been said many times here. And then this aid for electric cars comes to EUR 2000 when the purchase price does not exceed EUR 50000. I personally, at least, am very pleased with this conversion, i.e. turning a petrol car into a gas car. The cost of changing it is EUR 3000, and now that the state comes into it with a ton, it is 33%. So this is where you meet people who can't buy an electric car. Now the question is: how can this distribution network be created in the country? Well, it's easy, of course, with gas stations everywhere. Put one pistol in it, which then becomes this biogas, and through it would be much easier than, for example, the construction of an electricity distribution network.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u97	Irade the Talman! As far as climate objectives are concerned, they are relatively ambitious for Finland in terms of the burden-sharing sector, and it is clear that transport has an important role to play here. It is great to note that there are now many different options put on the table, because they really must be diverse, and I am glad to hear that Mrs Parviainen has a few more that need to be included in this palette. Of course, as a politician it is easy to support the scrapping premium. Who doesn't think it's a good idea to get money in your hand by buying a new car? The representative, Mr Kopra, said that the experience has been positive. Well, in fact, they may not have been so positive in the light of the study. It is precisely the fact that, in a way, it becomes a waiting value — it comes again every few years — in the light of the study, it is actually simply a matter of postponing the decision to buy rather than giving rise to the renewal of the car fleet. When VATT has considered these issues, the scrapping premium is, in fact, the only one of the big palettes it does not specifically recommend. Fuel taxes, congestion charges and support for public transport - they are clearly good measures. Of all these, the scrapping premium is clearly the worst.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u98	Mr President! The proliferation of electric cars and fuel conversions to biofuels are something to be sought, and I would like to add my thanks to the Minister, whom Mr Harakka has just mentioned. Of course, new technologies need support in order to become more widespread, and the necessary support services, such as the possibility of charging, will become more widespread and the cost difference will be reduced compared to current technologies. Achieving the objectives of the Paris climate agreement requires swift and diverse action. So I ask the Minister: is the government going to set an example and promote that the state and all its agencies and companies replace their fossil fuel cars and machinery with renewable and low-emission fuels and propulsion? Will this be required of producers when the State and its group compete for goods and services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u99	Mr President! The government's proposal clearly contains the right steps to promote low-emission motoring. Of course, further measures are also needed, as Mr Adlercreutz has pointed out very well with regard to fuel tax and congestion charges. I would also like to ask the Minister: is there any further action to be taken by the government on the charging network of electric cars, and how do you promote it? On the other hand, I would also like to ask about the biogas car charging network, to which Mrs Wallin has already referred. I myself think it is important to provide this conversion aid for gas and ethanol cars, and in particular I would like to promote biogas. Now, if you gas up, it's a mixture of natural gas and biogas. How can we ensure that there is more and more of this bio-share, biogas? And how do you promote, for example, biogas plants in the size of a farm?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u100	Mr President! These are the gas cars that my speech has to do with. As such, this scrapping premium, purchasing subsidies and conversion subsidies are good, but when there are 50,000 gas cars in the Government's energy and climate strategy programme by 2030, the question is, how is this going to be achieved? In their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have suggested that gas cars also have this kind of supply aid, and in the past we have also proposed halving the vehicle tax on gas cars on this very basis, on the basis of what the previous speaker said: because half of the gas is biogas, it is certainly more climate-friendly. In that sense, I would like this increase in gas cars to be taken seriously in the government, because this is otherwise the egg-chicken phenomenon that there will be no refuelling points if there are no cars, there will be no cars if there are no refuelling points. This would also be important for rural areas
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u101	Mr President! Several colleagues have asked about the download infrastructure and the government's actions in this regard. Well, the Minister will answer that, of course, but I'm going to ignore it anyway. The State budget has a budget of EUR 1.5 million for the promotion of e-transport infrastructure, i.e. residential buildings, and the communities that own them receive such support for construction. This is also the answer to Mrs Essayah, which is precisely the egg-chicken phenomenon, that this is an attempt to promote it. Of course, the amount is reasonably small, it is true, and I ask the Minister: can you estimate how much such aid is being applied for? Now that this budget is still being discussed in the section of the Committee on Finance, perhaps a few hundred thousand euros could be added to this,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u102	Mr President! The ambition of car manufacturers is the key question here of how to resolve climate issues. I have the impression that the European Commission has now had an important solution to deal with, and there is little concern in Finland as to whether it will slip away from these previously agreed issues. I would ask the Minister to describe how Finland now managed to find out about this new solution, when I understand that the Minister has worked hard to make a good decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u103	Mr President! Last week we had the opportunity here to discuss this subject, the change in transport, the change in the car fleet, and in particular what car manufacturers are doing in the Nordic countries and Europe and beyond. In fact, I agree with these thanks, which have already been expressed by the SDP colleagues, but at the same time I would also like to express my concern at the slowness of Finland's response to this huge change in transport. This is perhaps the biggest megatrend since the mobile revolution globally. We are now waiting for what the rest of the world is doing, what Europe is doing, and then we will certainly see three more times what Sweden is doing. By this I mean that I would now like the government not only to make this excellent proposal but also to have a more comprehensive, cross-ministerial strategy on how we can invest crediblely in this change in transport over the coming decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u104	Mr Halmemenpää has the floor, but okay, Mr Honkonen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u105	Mr President! Personally, I see that this government-elected line on biofuels, electric cars and biogas is good and balanced and provides rapid emission reductions, but it is clear that electric car technology is developing at the same time and will be a more significant form of mobility in the future. However, Finland is such a small market that this development takes place on the terms of the rest of the world, and Finland, I believe, will get involved in it. Now, however, we could also promote this electric car charging infrastructure in many other ways than the traditional construction of these charging stations at service stations, because the charging of electric cars does not need as much infrastructure as traditional transport stations. How can we promote, for example, the possibility of housing companies, apartment companies or households implementing such charging points and building such infraa as is needed for charging these electric cars? In fact, there is a certain amount of such a thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u106	I believe that everyone who asked for a reply has at least once received one. If there is not a particularly strong need for further questions now, then I am happy to give the Minister the floor, three minutes from the chosen place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u107	Mr President! Thank you for these feedbacks, lunches and questions. It is thus that in the 2015 scrapping premium trial, the emission limit value for the new car to be purchased was 120 grams per kilometre and bought cars with an average emissions of 107 grams per kilometre. Now it's been tightened to this 110. The aim of this may have been, first and foremost, to bring about a renewal of the car fleet and to make the best possible supply of the car fleet in this as a whole. Mr Harakka quite rightly said that, for hybrids, this should only apply to plug-in cars, and that is what is to be done. I will find out if there is any vague wording, but this is the objective of the law. Several representatives asked in particular about the gas car distribution infrastructure and the development of the electric car charging network. In the context of this parliamentary working group, funding was also allocated to both of them. It doesn't show up here, they're preparing for the TEM, and then they come down their own path here. Similarly, this parliamentary working group also increased public transport support by 2 million, particularly for rail transport, the introduction of congestion charges, the development of non-emissions from work vehicles, and the assessment of what might be the next steps to be taken before the parliamentary working group submits its final report by the end of February. So now it's just these two laws. After all, the package is considerably larger than what is being discussed here. In this regard, Mr Adlercreutz pointed out that the scrapping premium was not the most effective way. However, according to our reports, 30% of those who bought the car, who used the scrapping premium, would not have bought the car in general or changed the car without this aid scheme. Of course, it will also partially delay, but it will also lead to a complete renewal of the car fleet. There is no full supply aid for a gas car. This is because the price of its vehicle is so close to the purchase price of diesel and petrol cars. That's why we haven't put it forward. Mr Parviainen asked about this regulation which the EU Commission is about to adopt today. It did not come out, but it became a press release, and according to the press release, the Commission is very much setting a starting point for calculating the specific emissions of vehicles by 2030, but would also be an intermediate target for 2025, which is very similar to what Finland has been driving. It is true that these objectives, Mr Skinner, are progressing slowly, but we are working with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Economy and the Ministry of Social Affairs on the points of view of how we could produce better overall transport performance, and, of course, there is also the digitalization, serviceisation, infrastructure and building of housing, all these things, which affect this major shift in transport, and we are working hard on these.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u108	Thank you. Let us move on to the list of speakers — and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u109	Mr President! It is a good thing to speed up the renewal of the old car fleet to a lower level of emissions, which is the aim of this government proposal. At the same time, it is important for policy actions to aim at the expansion of electricity charging points and the expansion of the gas distribution network. The Greens' idea is to promote low-emission modes of transport suitable for each region and for each purpose. Liquid biofuels make the most sense to focus primarily on heavy traffic, which will not be electrified very quickly, at least. In their own future budget, the Greens would also allocate EUR 3 million to the development of a charging network for electric cars. A comprehensive charging system is a key factor in the growth and smooth movement of electronic transport. The charging network really needs to be improved not only at the service stations but also by adding, for example, the obligation to prepare for charging points in new construction and renovation sites. Actions and their effectiveness must be at a sufficient rate to achieve emission reductions. In their alternative budget, the Greens propose a 5 year fixed-term tax exemption for full electric cars, reaching 5000 new electric cars already in 2018, i.e. next year, when the Government's proposal estimates that less than 2,000 electric cars will be transported in Finland but only by 2021. A biogas car is a good option when, for reasons of distance, practicality or technology, an electric car is not the best or possible. However, the use of imported natural gas as a transport fuel should in future be stopped and only used by domestic biogas. This would allow each gas-powered vehicle to be classified as nearly zero-emission and to be treated in the same way as electric cars in terms of incentives. In our own budget, the Greens would invest EUR 25 million in biogas as investment aid. After three years of support, this would create at least 300 biogas plants that could generate an estimated one terawatt hour of energy per year, while generating income streams and hundreds of new jobs in rural areas. There is a great deal of untapped potential not only in agriculture but also in the food industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u112	Irade the Talman! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Apparently, you have a little different information than I do. I dug up some of that background. In fact, these studies referred to in the VATT study are mainly American. Of course, it may be that they have a more hedonistic relationship with driving, and in that case the threshold for buying may be lower. But good, if it has achieved good results and is believed to have been achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u115	Mr President! As regards this proposal, the scrapping premium, history has already shown that its tax revenue has been positive, and with the highest probability it can be assumed that it will be positive this time too. The car industry strongly supports this proposal, and car buyers and car changers are of course closely involved in this, so this is a diverse win-win situation and in this respect a very good presentation. In its interim report, the Parliamentary Transport Network Working Group submitted a further report on a possible reduction in the tax value of employment vehicles. Could it be in this way, therefore, if the car was a full electric car, by reducing its tax value, then by promoting the use of full electric cars as company cars more and thus making the fleet of cars renewable quickly? After all, this would also be a very quick way to get full electric cars on the replacement car market, as on average they are used for three years and about 20,000 cars are purchased each year. This would bring electric cars to the convertible market at a very rapid pace if such a change in tax value were made in such a way that it would be particularly advantageous to take a full electric car as a company car. Representative Skinneri here said that traffic is changing globally, but things are slowly happening in Finland. Well, I'm afraid I'm afraid I'm gonna disagree. I think we have made a lot of different kinds of proposals this season. We have a Transport Code 1 already decided, launched, to enter into force shortly. We've got traffic arch two here in Parliament. We have a new road law coming up, the private road law is being reformed, passenger rail transport is being reformed and so on. All of these presentations have taken account of this shift in traffic and digitalisation and new and evolving services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u116	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the car industry once again. The discussions that I personally have had have been constructive, and thank you for the fact that the car industry went along with this 500-year-old scheme. And thank the government for bringing this here. However, there are some ambiguities about this, as I have already said in that debate, and I am raising them a little more widely here. One of the ambiguities is precisely the issue of this car being scrapped. A few circles have come to believe that it needs to be owned by itself throughout the previous calendar year. It is now clear that it has to be in traffic for a year, that it is actually a car in traffic, that it is not going to happen the way it was last time, when they were, so to speak, scrap vehicles torn under the tree, which were then scrapped once and for all. That is not the intention, it is precisely the reduction of emissions and the renewal of the car fleet, that is to say, the car in use. But this is one of the ambiguities that needs to be clarified properly. Then there is also the follow-up to what the wrecked car really is. If the interpretation were so that it had to be specifically owned by itself throughout the calendar year, then I see a small risk that the vehicle being scrapped could even be a "too fit" car. In other words, this requires monitoring and information for both car dealers and those who are considering the purchase of a car. But with regard to emissions and the new vehicle, one problem with the purchase of electric cars is that when we talk about these subsidies here and, for example, when Norway is now very strongly supporting the purchase of electric cars and electric cars, there is such a suspicion that you might not even get an electric car from the car dealership when the electric cars that are being manufactured go to Norway. In other words, this is one thing that should be raised in some discussions which can certainly be done in that direction of the car industry. And why wouldn't that car be made in New Town, too, perhaps sometime? Then the other side is this side of the gas. I think it would be sensible to build such infra and such a base that this gas would somehow become more useful for heavy equipment and would also be built into some little carrot, because electricity probably won't come there, but on the heavy side gas is certainly a long-term solution that can then take advantage of this mentioned biogas. There you can also get to this kind of security of supply, so that even in exceptional circumstances you get your own production and thus your sustainability in this emissions policy, transport policy. The second point is this conversion, which is also capable of increasing the use of gas. You could still think about some carrots. For example, this biogas side: but now that natural gas is taxed, could some degree of return system be built for the use of biogas? Biogas is very far from this kind of society... even if it is restored and reduced on this side, it generates income elsewhere because it produces employment. An example could be given here: if, for example, the straw collected from the field is produced by digestion of the biogas, it will produce the gas, and when it is first collected from the field and then the rotten product is taken back to the same field, it will work and the field will get its fertilizer. In other words, this also leads to self-sufficiency on the fertiliser side, possibly. So there's a lot of positive things here for biogas. In my opinion, further consideration should be given to how to get additional carrots for this conversion and biogas use. Although, of course, we are talking about the purchase of cars, I would like to mention the climate aspect that, of course, it is better for us to become more users of public transport and this MaaS-thinking, which is also Finnish to withdraw, would move forward here. So the whole time must be accompanied by this big entity, which includes many different viewpoints, and their synergy is what needs to be sought. Thank you so much for coming. I'm sure this hearing will be interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u117	Mr President! I will return to this promotion of electronic infrastructure. With the EUR 1.5 million that Mr Adlercreutz also referred to in the budget, it is still possible to make minor changes at this stage in the budget procedure, and a few hundred thousand are also a big change in percentages. This point is in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment on 35.20.52, and if the Minister believes that even a slight change would make good progress, then of course it would be worth discussing it with Mr Tiilikainen and with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Housing and Environment Section, for example, its chairman, and perhaps we could look at it again. However, it is important and it is something that you would like to promote. And then, when we have talked about electric bicycles in the past — that is not directly related to this, but as words of encouragement in the future, if situations arise, then measures and decisions that promote e-biking and cycling in general are to be welcomed. One misconception about e - bikes is that it is thought that if a person has pedaled five kilometers before a business trip and then moves on to an e - bike, the effect of exercise will be reduced, as it were. But what really happens is that the journeys that are being trampled on will lengthen, leading to the fact that the health effects will not actually disappear, likely only increase, and then the different climate effects and other effects that will appear will not be needed for parking lots so much and so away. I'm sure it's worth keeping this under the magnifying glass. There are good examples of this in Helsinki
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u118	Mr President! The Parliamentary Bus Working Group also proposed funding for public transport subsidies and also for rail transport purchases to increase the amount of aid — these are measures in the right direction — and also the support for the construction of the infrastructure for charging and distribution of electricity and gas vehicles, which has been discussed in this debate. It is clear that they must therefore be supported by public funds, but they also come from private sources. For example, Gasum increases about a dozen refuelling stations on an annual basis, and these other players are becoming more and more, and this is a good development. The northern biogas refuelling station is currently located in Oulu, and we must remember that we are moving forward with this development and we need more of these to get more gas trucks on the road. But it is not enough just for cars to increase biogas and electric cars, but we should make public transport work and buses and public transport as a whole here in the gas sector, because it is there that it would be a good opportunity to reduce emissions. I'll take an example from North Ostrobothnia. Iris, who just recently received a European-scale award of a remarkable, good Hinku-Kun. It promotes carbon-neutral solutions that come from everyday affairs and local authorities. For example, this public transport is fully electrified and all future procurement will contribute to low emissions
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u119	Mr President! Just as has been said here, this biogas industry has had a little egg and chicken problem when this distribution network has not been created and then these cars have not been put into service either. Although we are talking here about relatively small sums in relation to this conversion aid, I believe that this is an important head start, which will give the right signal to consumers and also those who are considering this investment. I know that in Central Finland, for example, in my own constituency, a number of transport biogas projects are under way and are planned, which are not all public. That is why it is good that such positive signals are being put in that direction. After all, it would now be possible to substitute biogas for up to 18% of the energy used in road transport. That would be the calculated potential, although the real one will then be considerably smaller, but it also talks about a really big part. However, biogas is mainly non-emission-free fuel. Just as Mr Vehkaperä said earlier, ten new biogas distribution stations have already been opened this year in this country, and that is why there would now be opportunities for more heavy traffic to be used in biogas. Surely this further work must also take into account how the heavy traffic can be made gas-powered, when there is no prospect of electrification and very unlikely.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u120	And Minister Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u121	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentary working group and the parliamentaryism through which we have prepared these solutions and with which work will continue. Mr Adlercreutz raised the issue of the distribution infrastructure and whether it was necessary to support it or whether it was born on market terms. In the long term, the distribution infrastructure is certainly part of the market economy structure. But it is also true that once the TEM has previously supported the charge infra by a separate decision, it has made it possible for us to be in a situation where, in line with EU requirements, our charging infrastructure in relation to vehicles is in order. We would certainly not have been able to achieve this without the support system, and we would not have been able to get this work started. That is why it is important that we continue to do some more work on both distribution and charging infrastructure. Our figures are rather modest, but they have been built in such a way that we can then build on applications in such a way that we can influence where the market is not yet working. Mr Kopra made a good point about the fact that a lot is happening on this side of the transport sector — thanks for the thanks. It is quite clear that the biggest and most important thing in terms of climate change and the transformation of transport is that of our habit and our way of moving. There is a huge amount of work being done on this at the moment on the legislative side, but also on the creation of new service packages. Mr Jalonen pointed out that, in the case of a car to be scrapped, it must be used for transport for 10 years and the holder must be the owner, who then obtains the scrapping premium for that vehicle, but he must not own it for 10 years earlier. As far as taxation is concerned, I am sure that we will come back to the matter of further parliamentary work. There's still a big whole that we need to get back to. Mr Kiuru, this is precisely the case that e-bikes increase both public health and our climate solutions and create longer journeys of mobility, and possibly can also replace short journeys by car, so that the e-bikes are particularly useful. This is what we are now working on in the so-called Käpy strategy of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, i.e. a strategy for walking and cycling, which is becoming a decision of principle from the Government in this perspective in February. Hopefully this will also allow us to return to this possible support system for the electric bicycle. Mr Vehkaperä and Mr Honkonen, it is precisely as follows that we also need measures to promote biogas and, above all, to promote heavy traffic. Of course, we will also have terminals with charging sets. In this regard too, a great deal has happened in the year. So we're still in the middle of a job. We will continue, but there are now two legislative proposals which will get us started. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u122	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u123	Mr President! The law in question is based on the obligations imposed by the directive, and that is why we now need to put things in order. Changes need to be made in national legislation, but also in regulations, and there have of course been some questions raised about this. The first question is whether there is a risk that the chemicals legislation and the environmental protection law will regulate the same thing, which, as it were, makes the work of public authorities and businesses more difficult, because it is not always known which side of the law should be done. It may still have to be examined at the time of adoption of the regulation. The second question relates to the condition and security of the tanks in the power plants, as regards the fact that nothing extra is leaked into the environment and into the ground and that nothing at all is leaking out. Now, this draft regulation is probably based on the idea that there should be a double diaper like this, like two bases in tankers. It is all right that there is, as it were, the double confirmation, but on the other hand there should also be a protective pool. Now there is a message that these are good things in themselves, but if both are required, is it a little oversized from the point of view of risk management? For example, if more of these reservoirs are built, it may be 10 per cent of turnover for small power plants, so that it is not a small amount. When I ask about it, it seems that either, a compact protective basin or a double diaper, is sufficient in itself to protect and the damage has not occurred in either. So, against that background, this double protection might not be necessary. As far as regulations are concerned, for such plants, which are used very little, less than 500 hours a year, there are now two types of situation: old plants, existing plants and then new plants. The starting point should probably be that the requirements for these two types of power plant, old and new, should be the same and perhaps still need to be considered on the side of the regulation that is the case and whether the regulations are consistent, logical and understandable for the operator. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u124	Mr President! This amendment to the Environmental Protection Act implements the obligations of the Directive on medium-sized combustion plants at national level. According to the proposal, the obligation to register would be extended to smaller power plants with a minimum fuel efficiency of 1 MW. This bill, too, is the result of an EU directive which, as Mr Kiuru has already said, will lead to the transposition of medium-sized institutions into national law. I personally draw attention to the impact assessments, which are very limited, especially for the SME sector, and the entrepreneurship impact assessment is quite inadequate. Among other things, the evaluation concludes that the challenge for impact assessment is that there is no precise estimate of the number of installations of this size in Finland and the fuel they use. Financial estimates have therefore not been made. As regards the economic impact, it is noted, among other things, that the obligation to register will have some local economic impact, as the environmental protection authorities in the municipalities would have to deal more with registration notices and applications for environmental permits than before. Of these, municipalities may charge a processing fee. Tightening emission limits provide the basis for finding new technical and operational solutions and thus opportunities for cleantech development. The obligation to register increases the administrative costs for operators due to registration notices and possible authorisation procedures. Significant entrepreneurship impacts are found to be related to compliance with the emission limit values and measurement and reporting obligations required by the Directive. These are regulated at regulation level, not by law, and therefore the effects have not been further explored in this context. However, it has been estimated that the necessary additional investment in new cleaning equipment would be around EUR 22 million in Finland by 2030. As regards the impact on the functioning of public authorities, it is also noted that the number of jobs in municipalities will increase by increasing the number of activities covered by regular ex post controls. As regards environmental impacts, it is noted that the legislative provisions contained in the proposal would not only have direct environmental effects, but would also have environmental effects when regulation at the legislative and regulatory level was applied together. This would reduce the emissions of particulate matter and other climates in energy production in the long term, for example. These comments, Mr President, I hope that the committee will provide more information on the real impact of these obligations on the business sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u125	Mr President! Indeed, the essence of this government's proposal is this extension of the obligation to register combustion plants to include very small power plants and heating plants. What is essential is what Mr Mölsä also said before that we do not know exactly how many of these 1 to 50 MW plants we have here in Finland. There is the prospect that this will also result in more work being done by municipalities’ environmental protection authorities. But even these cost effects are quite impossible to estimate when there is no information about this number. Such an assessment of 2546 installations has been made, but its accuracy is difficult to say here. I also think it is essential to reflect on the point of view that, when this is a question of implementing the EU directive, the Finnish EU line has now been that bureaucracy should also be dismantled there at EU level, and that attention should be paid to the effectiveness of regulation: what is really achieved by this kind of regulation, this directive in relation to this provision, is actually achieving some climate benefits and achieving the right effectiveness. This is just an increase in the burden on the authorities and the establishment or extension of such registration. Personally, I do not believe that this will have such climate effects. Such a message in the committee's deliberations should be put forward through the ministry on the EU tables, that these should then also be made very clear as to the real impact and objectives of the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u126	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u127	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the so-called Forest Information Act so that public information about the forest information system, which is considered to be environmental information, can be disclosed without current data disclosure procedures. This would make it possible to make forest resource data publicly available without data identifying the forest owner. In this respect, I welcome the proposal. This project is part of the current Government Programme Wood to Move and New Products from the Forest. The aim of the project is to improve the use of forest resource data by improving the quality and mobility of information and by developing electronic services. From the point of view of the sustainable use of natural resources, better access to and wider use of forest information are also key. On the other hand, this proposal is justified. Forest resources data have currently been released for some 2 million hectares. Improving the use of forest resources data together with other forest policy instruments supports Finland’s national forestry, energy and climate strategies targets to increase felling and use of renewable energy. At the same time, it will provide an even better opportunity to take care of the diversity of forests, which I believe is a concern for all of us. Improving public access to information resources in accordance with the proposal will also create conditions for the emergence of new business activities and help develop forest information infrastructure to support, among other things, smooth timber trade. I consider the proposal to be very important and timely for the forestry sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u128	Mr President! The objective of the Act is to improve the understanding of our forest resources by developing electronic services, to improve the quality of information and, in particular, the movement of information, and also to bring legislation into line with EU directives in relation to the forest information system. The existing law would be amended to allow the disclosure of public information on the forest information system, which is considered to be environmental information, without the current data disclosure procedures. In addition, the provision on the correctness of forest resource data would be amended to allow the Finnish Forest Centre to receive forest resource data provided by anyone. Metsäkeskus has up-to-date information on forest resources in an area of approximately 11.6 million hectares, two thirds of which have been collected in recent years using a new method based on remote sensing. Although the information in the forest information system is mainly public, as far as the transfer of public personal data is concerned, the recipient of the transfer must have the right to process the information requested under the Forest Information Act, the Personal Data Act or other law. The current procedure is, in a word, slow and very rigid. Mr President! I consider this bill to be a good one, especially for the owners of small forest plots. In practice, the situation today is such that they cannot sell logging wood, because many times this area is so small. It is not profitable to transport and employ harvester chains in small sectors. If clays or fellings could be carried out at one time in a wider area, on the land of many forest owners, it would be profitable for harvesting. If implemented, the law would allow us to find out the columns owned by others in the vicinity of a single seller’s column, which are also in the cutting age. As a result, companies buying wood could approach these forest owners more quickly with purchase offers, and I believe that this would also stimulate trade in wood. Mr President! The bill is good and supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u129	Mr President! I agree with the above assessment that this is a very worthy bill. The use of forest resources data for the benefit of the forest industry and the forestry industry is still too limited, and this proposal aims above all to enable both the forest industry and then the forest scientists and the developers of this industry to make better use of this information collected from our vast natural resources. I think it is very important that the right outcome was reached here, namely that the personal data of private forest owners, the status data, the information on their private property, are not freely available in this system. This is extremely important for the principle of the protection of property. I also welcome the fact that I think there is such equal treatment in this regard, that all forest data are treated in the same way by small forest owners and then by large forest companies, for example, with very large forest holdings. Yet this information is available to the entire industry and also to science and research, and for this good result to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u130	Mr President! Like colleagues, I can agree with the positive assessment of this bill. In particular, Mr Hongisto made a very well-informed speech to the practical forest owner. This is also part of the government's digitalisation policy. If I open this up a little bit, we have a lot of untapped opportunities here on the forest side, for example this: The forest.fi system maintained by Metsäkeskus provides individual forest owners with good information about their own forests, the logging opportunities, management measures, timed and amortised, what should be done in their own forests, and also an assessment of the economic effects of this. The development of information systems will also allow different issues, such as the exploitation of the Kemera support system, to be handled entirely electronically today, which will speed up services. However, the basic problem at present is the resources of Metsäkeskus, and I hope that Parliament will also find some relief in getting these systems to work and there will be sufficient resources to make full use of them. All in all, the law now under discussion does serve the government's strategic objective of getting more wood and securing access to industrial wood in a situation where we are also going to have more processing capacity, which is in itself a good thing, and of achieving the objective of increasing the use of 15 million cubic metres of wood at a practical level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u131	Mr President! I have to agree with you that this government proposal is a good one. This will promote livelihoods and this will move wood. It would be good if, now that this public database is being opened and we have forest.fi systems and functioning Cubes, even forest owners would then receive offers that may not have been active on the market. In other words, this will have a market-enhancing effect in principle, and it is good that even the forestry sector, although it is a traditional sector and traditional forms of wood have been cut into wood, is now going to be pretty much electronic for certain shops. I think it is right that this should be seen as the government's top project. Another matter of principle, which is included in this government bill, is that when we collect information with public funds, we must not go fooling it, because if that information is stupidized — now I am talking about the principles of hila and design — then it means that taxpayers' money is wasted. Both these principles are included in this Government compromise proposal: promoting electronic timber trade and not making public information stupid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u132	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter was put on the table at the plenary session on 24 October 2017. The general debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u133	Mr President! I'll pick up where I left off the last time, which means I didn't stop when I didn't start. What is not right and fair cannot be a law. So said one Olaus Petri in the 16th century, and that wisdom still keeps its itch. I am particularly pleased to be able to tell the Finns about the upcoming district court reform, so much I personally have experienced. It aims to improve the legal protection of citizens, to improve the quality of service of courts and to improve regional coverage. This will enable us to achieve better justice, fairness and letter of the law and spirit. It is the task of the Court of Justice to produce correct and reasoned decisions within a reasonable period of time and at a reasonable cost. This is the way to define the law, and the reform will enable us to achieve that objective better. How, then, will the reform be implemented? In a few words, I will state the most important changes and justify them. First of all, small district courts are being merged. There is also a desire to strengthen district courts in order to provide specific expertise in different fields. The world we live in today is complex, and the solution to many questions also requires special expertise from judges. The time for the married men is over. These could include, for example, structural and building errors and liability issues, specifically in the construction industry's business of home-building disputes. When a house is damaged by moisture, expertise is needed to enable the court to determine who is responsible for the defects and who is liable for the damage. Has the building been badly designed, miscarried, followed up on its drawings? Are the materials as they are supposed to be? Are the users of the building guilty of unintentional, negligent or intentional negligence, resulting in faults? How should subcontracted-chained construction stages have been monitored and monitored, and in what way? Similarly, custody disputes, inheritance disputes, divisions, car sales, complex issues are not solved by simple salomon sentences. All of this and many others today need not only a knowledge of the law book but also specialists in many fields. This is why we want to concentrate the specialised administration of justice in the sectors. For example, land purchases, maritime law, corporate restructurings, bankruptcy, enforcement complaints, military law and many other specific issues are to be concentrated on district courts specialising in their own field. Above all, citizens must feel that they have been treated fairly when they walk out of court with a decision in their pocket. It cannot be that the size and location of a district court depends on whether it has expertise or not, whether a person receives justice or not. The second point is linguistic questions. The aim of the reform is to ensure more precisely that people in a country that is plagued by migration can continue to visit authorities in their own language. From the point of view of Finland, Sweden and the north, Sámi-speaking services must be secured. The reform also seeks savings. The greatest savings arise from the fact that the decisions of district courts do not need to be repeated at the next court when someone or no party is satisfied with the decision. The judicial processes are usually long, take time, resources, and fighting after a district court court can seem unreasonably harsh and costly. The aim of the reform is therefore to make more decisions on district courts that do not need to go anywhere else. The idea is also that public legal aid should be extended and private service providers could also provide assistance to people in remote areas. Now legal aid is too concentrated on large cities and public actors. There are many players in the SME sector across the country who could offer assistance at a close distance. I hope that this will not go to village politics, but that this will be a good solution as a whole. We cannot afford the policy of the bridge drum, which I have heard is being pursued. Mr President, the Blue Parliamentary Group warmly supports this reform and the basic proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u134	Looks like there's a need for a debut. Debatin begins with Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u135	Mr President! Yes, the benefits of this specialisation must be questioned. You can say that a good lawyer is able to get to grips with the matter and take over. I can say that there is a representative. Mrs Torvise's speech did not leave a lot of wool in her hand to defend this proposal. Over the last 30 years, we have reduced the district courts from 96 to 20, and I can say that there is already some kind of pain limit for reducing the district network. Even the previous study in 2010 did not provide an account of the impact on the availability of legal protection or on the functioning of judicial institutions in general, and this should definitely have been done. Similarly, Minister Häkkänen has made a decision to set up a judicial office, but this solution should also have waited for this decision before making such far-reaching decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u136	Mr President! A few weeks ago, I presented this report, but quite briefly: Good things — when I suspected that more people were looking for those challenges. The fact is, however, that this reform is now necessary, first of all because of technical matters. For one thing, district courts need to be digitized, the halls need to be matched today. In time, the Aipa project will come, but we will have to create distance communication and other technologies, and we simply cannot afford the amount of halls we have today to equip with this technology. Similarly, security arrangements are completely inadequate in many places. The Safety and Health Act already requires the safety of personnel to be guaranteed. On top of that, I am concerned about these small vulnerable courts. Legislation has become very complex and specific skills are needed. The judges themselves have said that, unfortunately, they cannot control everything anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u137	Mr President! I cannot stand up for this performance with such an open mind and with the utmost enthusiasm. However, I would like to say that 7 district courts and 21 places of business are being abolished here — a very important restructuring is at stake here. It is worth noting that the Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to the fact that a few seats received special attention, i.e. Raahe and Iisalmi: Raahe because the police are not returning to the premises of Oulu, the police and the courts, but the Justice Department intends to invest judges. That's pretty interesting. And Iisalmi because the special features and construction of Sukeva Prison in Kuopio mean additional costs. It is therefore necessary that, when the Ministry of Justice makes final decisions by means of regulations, these overall economic effects have also been assessed before the decision is taken. It is not enough, therefore, to ex-post assess whether a good decision was made or a bad one, but to assess it in advance. Even under the rule of law, this is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u138	Mr President! I must say that it would have been nice if Justice Minister Häkkänen had been here to hear our debate and feedback on this government proposal and this report. Just as Mr Ojala-Niemelä said, we have already had quite a radical reduction in the district court network as early as 2010 and no impact, no cost impact or impact on processing times has been assessed, but neither has the impact of this government's proposal been assessed. In other words, it is simply imagined that savings will be made, but there are no figures at all as to whether they will be saved. In my opinion, people's legal protection cannot be put into any auction, but it is a very important issue for us to hold on to with claws and teeth, and in this respect I am surprised at this whole proposal. I would hope that, when this regulation can be maintained, they will also remain in Raahe, Iisalme and Sodankylä, and so on, the important linguistic rights and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u139	Mr President! There is certainly a lot of good in this proposal, but it certainly attracts particular attention that this government is now pushing for such a strong concentration. For example, in the areas mentioned here, where this service is being abolished, this will have a number of indirect effects. In Sodankylä, for example, the distance is long, and then Raahe and Iisalmi are important localities regionally and even for distances. This is, of course, a question of centralisation and, therefore, of seeking savings. Now the economy is improving, and as the economy improves, one might think that legal protection would take precedence over savings and access to services close to people would be more important than seeking small savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u140	Mr President! I share the concern that, when the Court of Justice has not been set up and the impact of the previous restructuring has not been assessed, new changes are being made again. However, these are savings proposals, which this law in practice contains. I myself would lack linguistic rights and reasonable accessibility. It is clear that there is no constant visit to the district court, that many of us do not have to visit it at all, but some of us have to visit it, and it must be noted that it is important to have a service in our own mother tongue at a reasonable distance. The Swedish-speaking position will be weakened by this reform, and the position of Sámi-speaking services in particular will become even worse. For example, the distance from Ivalo to Oulu is 510 km, and in the future this 510 km will then be the reasonable distance that Sámi speakers will have to travel in matters such as corporate restructuring and enforcement. It seems quite unfair, although there is no doubt that the long distances in Lapland are
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u141	Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches here, but it seems that those who applaud this may not have been familiar with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs has quite unanimously raised a lot of problems and challenges. Then the opposition has come to the conclusion that they are so heavy that the whole proposal should be rejected, but I think that the same things have been raised and there was a great deal of consensus on them. One very problematic point, of course, is the lack of interest in linguistic rights, the government treats them with great arrogance and thinks that linguistic rights are guaranteed on paper. Although it is known from experience that we have two very well-functioning district courts, in Porvoo and Raasepori, where bilingualism actually works, yet, of course, these are deliberately abolished and it is hoped that Swedish-speaking services will continue to be provided in the future in Espoo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u142	Mr President! This is indeed a savings law that seeks savings of between 5 and 7 million, but this government proposal does not contain such comprehensive, good calculations and studies. In these places of closure, distances are increasing and time spent on escorting police officers is increasing, resources are dwindling, travel expenses for customers and witnesses are increasing, staff travels are increasing. It is terribly difficult to find the things that would actually improve here. In particular, I consider this situation to be absurd for my own country, North Savo, where these offices are to be closed down in Iisalme and Varkaus. There is not even enough room to deal with these matters in Kuopio, we have to build more. And in view of this very Sukeva prison, which has already been mentioned here, this will increase costs there, that is, even this government proposal's objective of saving costs will not be realised in my province. In that sense, it seems that on absolutely incomprehensible grounds
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u143	Mr President! This is the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, so then everything that the government is proposing must be true and correct. Personally, I did not fully understand that this ground for closure is such that there are no calculations if something has to be built somewhere else and it goes through. I'm a little puzzled by this. Otherwise, I understand that public finances are being set up, but all I have demanded is that there should be clear calculations and then there should be a completely equal basis for how these peoples or sitting places should be abolished. As Mr Essayah has said here, North Savo will abolish the theft and Iisalmi based on this government proposal, and if I understand correctly, there are two sub-regions in Finland on the other side. I therefore feel in some way that this should be viewed precisely through actual savings and through actual calculations, and that it should still be possible in this case for Iisalm and possibly for Varkaus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u144	Mr President! It is not a policy to require proper cost-benefit analyses of legislative proposals. For example, in Northern Savo, the premises of the Kuopio office are, in my opinion, in a worse condition than the offices of Iisalmi and Varkaus that have been submitted for closure. In Kuopio, repair and renovation and expansion measures must be taken immediately, while in Iisalm and Varkaus there are healthy, fit and even modern facilities. What's the point? On this basis, one can indeed doubt whether this will become a saving over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u145	Mr President! Here, this cost-saving issue has come to the fore quite rightly. It must therefore be viewed critically and with an open mind. As far as Northern Savo is concerned, it is indeed necessary to ask how it can be that the committee does not have access to the costs associated with the new construction of Kuopio. They should be known when, on the one hand, we call for cost savings and, on the other hand, we do not want to take account of the possibility of reducing rental costs, at least in Iisalmi. We must now appeal to the Ministry of Justice and the Council of State as a whole to finally take account of the real cost factors, the increase in police duties as a result of the lengthening of these journeys, special factors such as this Sukeva prison on the Upper Savo side, and also the vitality aspects of the sub-regions. Such a calm reflection on yet cost savings is more than justifiable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u146	Mr President! This is about a drastic cut in legal security. If you think about reducing the number of sittings, how much will be reduced, you will suffer very much from this. I'm really worried about that. With regard to my own province, I was thinking about the situation in Iisalme and Varkaus: there are modern, good facilities, which have received very good grades from judges, there is a good capacity to hold and manage sittings when renovations are carried out in Kuopio and there will be more costs. It also reminds me that this amendment of the law, which is now being made, does not treat people equally throughout Finland. This undermines the legal security of people in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u147	Mr President! This government proposal is really ill-advised, because the large reduction and change made since 2010 has not been evaluated and yet a drastic reduction is being proposed for both district courts and meeting places. The Greens are not in favour of this proposal. There were no sufficiently strong arguments in the committee and, in fact, no arguments were found even as to where the savings come from, because in any case more facilities are needed and staff are transferred. In particular, people's linguistic rights in legal services are at risk. When people are involved in legal services, they need them, it is important that their quality is maintained and linguistic rights are guaranteed. This is not the case for Swedish, for example, but it is not the case for Sámi. The Association of Judges also drew attention to the fact that regional accessibility is not good in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u148	Mr President! Now that I have come to the defence of this motion, I would like to say quite simply that we are going to hang ourselves in the walls, when the fact is that — as far as my office is concerned, I am going to tell you that yesterday a competent judge heard a client from Rovaniemi to Helsinki — today, with a remote connection, a telephone connection, a video connection, can handle things in an entirely different way. It is here that we attach ourselves to the places of justice for voters in our own region, where we are now seeking savings, in fact, from the fact that the savings are made — from experience — that when the district court gives a good judgment, it will cost the losing party EUR 10000 plus the other EUR 10,000, and if there is no complaint, we will be able to make it by 20,000. Then, when there is such a district court as Sodankylä, which has a few judges and has to take judges elsewhere, they may not have dealt with those matters. It is a real saving for a private person in that he does not have to go to court to resolve matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u149	Irade the Talman! Clearly, there are a great many problems with this proposal. I would like to highlight a few absurd detalkers. There are new, expensive, renovated premises in Pietarsaari, whose lease is valid until 25, and this point is still closed. At the same time, the smaller Kauhava unit operating in the old premises may continue. There's room in Raasepori. It will be closed and operations will be transferred to Espoo. In turn, Espoo's facilities will have to be expanded with this. There is talk here of linguistic rights. Well, even today they do not work very well, but this reform clearly weakens them. We have 138 court trainees in Finland. At the moment there are five Swedish speakers, only two of them, two of 138, and two of them in Åland. Everyone can determine for himself whether this is a structure that safeguards linguistic rights in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u150	Mr President! I will sign the pain that people in Upper Savo, for example, have in this matter. I really would have missed having precise cost calculations of what is being lost and what is being gained. But, Mr President, I think there is one thing that has been overlooked in this debate. It's this Senate property. In my municipality of Ilomants, the police department now had to move from their own premises to rented premises to another place. Fortunately, the same locality in Ilomants still has one. The posts were transferred to Joensuu. What was the benefit of this office move? Because of the fact that the Senate properties charge absolutely absurd rent for government property. It's a third of what it's a rental in that private-controlled area. The same had to be done by the Border Guard, which was driven by Senate properties from their own premises to rented premises. It happens to be the same property. There were other people there too. The fire department had to move there too. The old vocational school was re-used. It's being handled by a private entrepreneur. When are we in this house going to start peddling this unimaginable company, Senate properties?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u151	Mr President! Now that the savings are being justified by this relatively large reduction in the district court network, then it would always be desirable for those savings to be based on some facts and to be able to demonstrate that those savings are actually being made. After listening to colleagues' speeches and reading expert reviews, quite a few questions are now coming up. On the other hand, it is thought that the abolition of a few points will lead to savings and, at the same time, it is recognised that more investment will have to be made at a number of points, which will then remain in force, in order to accommodate the activities that will be transferred there. When we look at this a little more broadly, I noticed that many representatives of the government party have now taken a little bit of a step forward in this regard, and we can all agree with this desire from the opposition here. Every time the savings are justified, the savings must be real and not quite pulled out of the hat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u152	We've had one round, but I think we're still going to need a little more debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u153	Mr President! Now a bill is passed, which will decide on 20 district courts and their main offices, and then the decree will decide on other places of business. Here I would really like to see, as many speakers have said, that when the Ministry of Justice makes a decision on this, it is based on facts and facts that can also be ex post estimated that the decision was correct. But now I feel a little — and not a bit — that the situation is that it is said that there can be no calculations, but there is a desire to make a decision. In this respect, I very much appeal to the Minister for Justice that when, in due course, Parliament receives a report, as is the case here, on how this reform went, it can be shown, for the localities where there will be closures, that the overall economic impact is acceptable and thus acceptable. Unfortunately, not all aspects of the Ministry of Justice have been able to trust. I am referring here to the investment decision of Pelso Prison, which has been rushed by Parliament many times, and this is still a matter that remains to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u154	Mr President! Indeed, I ended my previous speech with the fact that we should wait for this reform of the Court of Justice. Its job would have been to solve this district network case. The second point is that there are 22.5 for us. promised to the Committee on Legal Affairs a proposal for summation from the Minister and it is still awaited. It also plays a crucial role in which district courts are to be placed in future. These are very closely linked to each other. I wonder about this economics of concentration and greatness, also by the Centre Party. According to the Ministry of Justice’s own statistics, large rights in quality measurement are the worst-performing. There is Kemi-Tornio as the number one producer, Oulu as the number two, Lapland as the third, which is the lowest rights in this comparison. This proposal now puts the workers on the road and relies on technology that does not exist yet. The distances are long and the offices to which:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u155	Mr President! Representative Torvinen spoke here that we are somehow to our own voters doing nice things here and falling in love with the walls. I say to you, Mrs Torvinen, do not fall in love with new walls either if you do not know how much these new walls cost. If this is a savings law, then I think it is quite reasonable in plenary to call constructively for calculations to support these decisions and, if they do not exist, I say, as Mrs Kääriäinen, that I think I should reconsider whether these changes are generally sensible. And when it is said that the assemblies must be governed, I will make it known to you all that in 2004 there were 38 policemen in Iisalme and Upper Savo, today there are 22. There is only one patrol in the summer, and now that patrol is going to take people to Kuopio far, who cannot afford to go by any means of transport — and they are not, public buses — there is a clear safety gap. These entities should be able to take account of the fact that crime is not given a good chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u156	Mr President! Today I made a call about this Iisalme thing so I could figure it out, and the message was clear: "Don't fall in love with the walls. Trust that IT and IT solutions will solve this." I say it in practice because this has happened. It's a remote connection that can handle things. It is a matter of attitude whether it is accepted that a poor person does not have to pay 10,000, 20,000, for his appeal to court. In reality, this is about increasing expertise, where falling in love with the walls and the policy of the bridge drum in your own region does not help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u157	Mr President! I feel bad about listening to Mr. Torvise's arguments. In fact, in the case of Upper Savo, in the case of the office of the District Court of Iisalmi, the question is that there will be no savings and there will be an increase in the workload of the police, the transport costs will increase and, of course, the travel costs of the workers will also increase in Kuopio, where there will be no room when both Iisalme and Varkaus cases are transferred there. What is more, it is known about Kuopio's premises that, apart from being inadequate, the walls that are there are also in bad shape, which means that there are mold problems there, and in that sense this proposal is absolutely absurd for North Savo. Yes, it must be wondered that as a representative of Lapland, you think that centralisation is moving forward, because it is quite clear that the other legal services of these cities will also be weakened. There are legal aid offices leaving, lawyers leaving, and thus the entire region will lose its operations. So there's no way to think,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u158	Mr President! Finland is the rule of law. Citizens have a great deal of confidence in the functioning of the judiciary, its honesty and fairness. Similarly, confidence in police activity is high. For its part, this is also based on a certain degree of subsidiarity. In this respect, yes — when the review of the district court network is also ongoing after the government negotiations, this is related to cost issues — I understand that the Ministry of Justice is in a difficult situation. But yes, Parliament must look after the fact that the decisions are reasonable, and when it is considered that there is no real financial savings to be made — for example, the North Savo case is precisely the case if Iisalmi is abolished, Varkaus is abolished, the offices, the Chambers and these are rebuilt in Kuopio — at least from the taxpayer’s point of view it is not economical and does not make sense in terms of justice, so this is something that Parliament must consider very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u159	Mr President! Mr Torvinen is talking about walls here, but it was very clear in the committee hearing that the government also sees this linguistic rights as a challenge. In Uusimaa, for example, Raasepori and Porvoo have provided services in Swedish, but now, for example, the Espoo District Court, to which they have been thought to be transferred, has already been challenging to receive multilingual staff. The point that has not yet been raised in this debate is that the government is also planning additional work for district courts. It is true that private road disputes, which are therefore very important issues and important issues to resolve in a high-quality way, are now moving from the municipal road boards to the district courts. In other words, there are more cases coming up with even more congested district courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u160	Mr President! Mrs Torviselle must be told when we in the Committee on Legal Affairs have indeed heard many experts on this quality of the solutions, that no bad decisions are taken in small district courts. Yes, it is just as Mr Ojala-Niemelä said: yes, if we start to justify reducing district courts by providing better quality solutions, then there should be facts for this too, and that is not the case. In other words, the small district courts have made high-quality solutions and no more complaints have been initiated than the larger ones, even less so that this is not the case. On the other hand, we have the statement of the Supreme Right President, we have the Judge Union, the Bar Association, the Lawyers' Association, and we all have the same criticism: legal protection is compromised, there are longer distances, and access to justice is weakened. This criticism has come from a very diverse and very heavy body, and this is something we should pay attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u161	Mr President! It is a real shame that the Minister is not here because he could have answered the concerns and questions raised here. Minister Häkkänen has decided to propose, for example, the establishment of a judicial office. With regard to this bill, when I read the tasks defined for the future Court Office, I wondered in my mind whether the renewal of the district court network would not have been part of its remit, as Mr Ojala-Niemelä said earlier here. The tasks of the Court of Justice are the responsibility for the operating conditions of a judicial body, as well as the development, planning and support of the functioning of the courts. I really hope that this issue can be reconsidered more carefully so as not to make bad decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u162	Mr President! I understand, of course, that this abolition of courts is a very painful issue in many places, but with regard to these savings, I would say that they will be seen in a little longer term. Of course, there will certainly be additional costs at this stage when more will have to be built for one reason or another. But when I talked about digitalisation, in future, according to our report and the government's proposal, it will reduce the pressure on investment by a one-off rate of EUR 2 million and then an additional EUR 2 million per year. So those savings come in the long term, not at this stage. And on the other hand, this digitalisation — which cannot be brought into all these halls now, but when it is brought into those new halls — reduces the need for citizens to deal with district courts. The number of prisoner transports will also decrease with remote connections. Here comes these savings, not now, but in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u163	Mr President! Of course, this is a fundamental issue that must be considered in terms of legal certainty as to how it will be done. When the services and the districts move very far, it will suffer from the point of view of legal security, and then I understand that the government is going to go looking specifically for savings when it cannot justify this with legal protection. Well, although this proposal does not seem justified, it may be that some savings will be made by the State, but the corresponding bill will largely be passed on to private customers, i.e. customers, as distances increase and travel costs increase, and there will be a great deal of indirect effects. It is true what has been said here that when district courts have been abolished from different localities in the past years, the local law firms and law firms have also ceased quite quickly, and it is a loss to that municipality or locality in general,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u164	Mr President! As far as the committee's report is concerned, we have already made a proposal from the committee, which specifically raises these concerns. The government's proposal also states that this may undermine linguistic services, and it is good to ask: What is the cost of legal protection? Is 7 million the price saved in the legal protection of some people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u165	Mr President! There is no bridge drum policy to be critical of this issue. For example, my region of Tampere, Pirkanmaa is not in any way on the line on this issue, but I am quite right to be concerned, for example, about what is happening in northern Savo, including all the other issues that are involved. When it comes to the costs of space and those walls, Mr Eestilä rightly pointed out that we do not have precise information on the actual savings that are being made in this area, and I think that it would be useful to find out more quickly before we start making decisions. It is clear that if expensive renovations are needed, the renovations will be paid out by the tenant in one way or another, and if the Senate is involved, this issue will certainly continue. It would therefore be particularly important for this to be done in peace. And when you talk about digitizing the premises, it's worth doing anyway. It's an extra plus, but it doesn't solve this whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u166	Mr President! There has been talk of walls, and there has also been talk of legal protection and so forth. These crimes that take place in Finland are not all simple and clear. For example, crimes against children are such that, as a father, I would like to take my children to a district court where I know that the prosecutor and the judge understand these matters. This may not be the case in every place. I could leave Rääkkylä to get Swedish-speaking services in Åland if I know that I get the best service for my children there and a prosecutor and a judge who understands these matters. Sometimes you should think about the victim's position, not just those walls.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u167	Mr President! All I have to say to the previous speaker is that perhaps it is worth listening to these comments from experts, which were quite different. There is a lot of talk here about these walls, and I do not fall in love with the walls here, even though Lohja, my own municipality, is now on the side of the losers, but what I am asking for is that the potential savings and benefits that this is seeking actually come true. That's what this is all about. We have a huge suspicion that the savings that the government is now seeking with this package of laws and these closures are more desirable here. When we go to this digitalisation, we unfortunately have it in our infancy, and now, for example, when we have had to get a person from the Lohja Police Department there to be heard by the District Court, it has been 20 metres away. Now in the future, it will be a 50 km journey when it is brought to Espoo, as this digitalisation and the new instruments are not yet working properly. It's not like this isn't the kind of thing that gets you worried.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u168	Mr President! As a builder, I do understand and love buildings that have been done well, which work well, which give the best opportunity to carry out the task and where there are functional facilities, modern technology and a lot of these interrogation rooms and sessions for small sessions. Then another thing: I do not think it would be worthwhile to start building new premises when we have – as in Iisalm and thievery, for example – really good, functional and modern facilities and full potential for proper digitalisation from there. It seems crazy to go out and push it to Kuopio with force, where there are areas of moisture damage that need to be expanded and enlarged. It's a waste of society's money at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u169	Irade the Talman! This is not about being in love with the courts, it is about legal certainty, that is what this is about, and many people think it is at risk here. When we talk about quality, it is worth rereading the Judge Union statement stating that the Judge Union considers it clear that the proposal endangers the legal security and equality of citizens without its relevance to the national economy. Then, of course, it is worth putting the price of legal certainty and equality on the balance. Maybe it'll cost you something. Well, in this situation, the savings are also very vague, just as Mr Räsänen has already pointed out a few times. Expertise — Will expertise be transferred? Mr Kulmala said that this would bring new expertise somewhere. That is not going to happen, this change does not generate any new expertise, but may in turn reduce it. It is already known that many who currently work in Porvoo or Raasepori will not move to Vaasa or Espoo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u170	Mr President! I asked for one more reply, precisely because more people have now raised this issue of digitalisation. Now tell me, people in the Committee on Legal Affairs: is it not true that this Aipa project, on which much of this digitalisation has now been laid down, is being postponed? After all, it is being postponed, and even in that sense, we cannot possibly count on the fact that we now have a huge number of equipment to deal with these trials. It seems strange that at this very point, when this Aipa project is being postponed, it is precisely at this stage when we are not sure whether there will be a court office, to which this is precisely the kind of overall evaluation of the district court network, that is precisely at this point we will make such drastic cuts to our network. This is an incomprehensible moment, this is such a bad time to make a decision of this kind that it would be worth putting this off just because no decisions of this kind would be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u171	I would like to add two speeches to this debate: Mr Tolvanen, chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Mr Torvise, who initiated the debate, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u172	Mr President! Just for this digitalization. It is one part of it, and unfortunately it has been constantly delayed, but it involves a great deal, as is the case with these remote connections — or, in other words, these remote connections do not have to do with it — as well as the security arrangements, so that they can now be built up to start this digitalisation. But unfortunately, the Aipa is stretching and pounding, sort of like the West Metro, apparently. But then to this specialization. The aim here is that, now that larger units are coming, when this EU law has come to us, brings various commerves, our own legal system is becoming more complex, so now judges would have the opportunity to specialise in certain areas, as is already the case in large district courts, then talk about soft matters — for example, Follo, such a conciliation procedure — or talk about financial crime or drug crime prevention. It is also the goal here that when larger units come, then there will be special judges, as are the prosecutor and the police, so that this idea of the judge will cease.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u173	Thank you! When I was unwittingly given this opportunity to start the debate, I would just like to say that there have been some very good points of view here. One important aspect is precisely the improvement of local access to its right. The District Court and its walls don't solve it. It's... If I tell you an example of my own business: There was a client from Tampere who told me he had a child dispute. He said he'd be brought to the countryside by a suitor. This brought it, he scanned it for us, we processed it, we talked over the phone, we replied in writing to the district court, and then we talked to the client. The preparatory session was conducted using Business Skype in such a way that Kankaanpää had another lawyer and then a judge in Tampere. So it is now the case that, in my opinion, we do not want to understand that the Aipa project does not solve everything. Business-Skype, for example, is the one that solves matters more today than you think.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u174	We're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u175	Mr President! Thank you for the interesting debut. However, I will continue to speak as I originally had planned, about three weeks ago, when I waited five hours to make this speech, but then the matter remained on the table. In other words, this amendment to the court law is a proposal for savings. The aim is to reduce the costs of the courts by between EUR 7 and EUR 7.5 million. This change will lead directly to the abolition of 7 district courts and the closure of 21 district courts from the present 57 seats. So there is no small change at all. There would be 36 offices in the new district court network. In addition to the 20 administrative offices of the District Courts, separate offices would remain for four localities and seats for 12 localities. As a result of the reform, the district court or office would cease from 12 localities. The current sittings would be closed 14. It is doubtful whether the proposed district court network of giant units is geographically balanced and whether equality between people and services will be achieved in the future. These concerns were also raised in the recent debate. The concentration of activities will increase the pressure on the remaining district courts and will require both additional building and transfer of personnel. Calculations behind savings can also be criticised. The chapter is the debate on digitalisation. Of course, digitalisation is needed, but it is a separate issue that does not solve this whole district court network. In any case, we will need cooperation between different district courts, cooperation between different establishments and the fact that we can use, for example, remote connections, but that will not be resolved by the fact that we are now putting together a bunch of district courts and we are confident that the culture of operation will change just like that and that we will get those digital services in good time. It's unlikely. Over the years, the resources of the judiciary have been greatly reduced. It is now legitimate to ask what impact this proposal will have on court proceedings and court congestion. The Greens are concerned that the reform may undermine citizens' legal security and the practical conditions for the smooth running of justice. The realisation of linguistic rights is also clearly weakening. Although most of us are in the district court very rarely, if ever, access to the service at a reasonable distance must be secured. For example, in the much spoken North Savo area, Kuopio – Varkaus and Iisalmi will be closed down. From the perspective of linguistic rights, the current district court network is also challenging. Already, the processing of the matter in Swedish is easily prolonged for months if the person concerned wants to be processed in Swedish in a region where Swedish is a minority language, i.e. clearly a minority language. It has, of course, been argued in the discussion of the government proposal that it would be easier to recruit people with language skills to larger offices. However, there is no practical evidence of this, as Espoo, for example, has had problems finding Swedish-speaking staff as well. The closure of the Sámi-speaking offices will also weaken legal protection. The abolition of the Sodankylä office will inevitably lead to a deterioration in the capacity of the District Court of Lapland to hire Sámi-speaking staff, which will be significantly weakened. The reform of the District Court would also lead to Sámi-speaking people going to the District Court of Oulu in the future in matters of corporate restructuring and enforcement. For example, the distance from Ivalo to Oulu is 510 kilometres, which is impossible to consider particularly reasonable. Mr President! The latest restructuring of district courts was carried out from 2010. In this case, the number of district courts was reduced from the previous 51 district courts to the current 27. Over the last three decades, the reductions have been from 96 courts in 1987 to the current figure. The Government has not carried out a separate study on the impact of the 2010 reform on the availability of legal protection and the functioning of the judiciary. Such an investigation would be justified, at the latest, before further cuts are made. At the same time, the indirect effects of the reform should be examined. In fact, it is not only the courts, but also the other legal services of the localities that are involved in the reduction of district courts. It can be seen that they will weaken with this change. Currently, private law firms and state legal aid offices are mainly concentrated in localities with district courts. The drastic and rapid elimination of the network can be fatal for law firms located in the localities from which district courts are abolished. Based on past experience, it is also foreseeable that offices will disappear from the places where district courts will be removed. So it's not a little thing. Finally, I would also like to raise the issue of the Court of Justice. Last spring, a committee set up by the Ministry of Justice to prepare for the establishment of a judicial office proposed that a judicial office be set up in Finland to carry out the tasks of the central administrative authority of the judiciary. I understand that this is also progressing. The Agency would be responsible for the operating conditions of the judiciary and for developing, planning and supporting the functioning of the courts, i.e. the work that is now being done — or it is being said that it is being done, is now being spared. So what is at hand should not be rushed until it has been decided when the planned court office will be brought to Finland. Planning and evaluating the options for implementing the reform now being presented would be the responsibility of the Court of Justice if the agency could now only be set up. As a result, this reform of the district court and legal reform should at least be timed forward. In their present form, in this form, the Greens cannot accept this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u176	Mr President! This government proposal would implement the restructuring of district courts. The reform would change district court networks so that after that there would be 20 district courts in Finland instead of the present 27 district courts. In accordance with the proposal, district courts would be appointed mainly on the basis of the names of the provinces. The number of establishments would be reduced from the current 57 to 36. In addition to the 20 administrative offices of the District Courts, separate offices would remain for 4 and seats for 12 localities. The implementation of the justice reform programme is one of the key stone-foot projects of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government, and the implementation of the restructuring of district courts is one of the key projects of the programme. In Finland, the courts and their decisions are largely trusted. The operating environment of district courts is changing, and this change in the operating environment requires measures to ensure the high quality of justice in the future. The change will also allow more efficient and even-handed distribution of workload and resources. According to the proposal, by reducing administrative costs and reducing the costs of premises, the resources of the judiciary can be channelled to the law. This is worth the effort. The elimination of overlapping activities, administrative efficiency and reduced costs of premises can also result in savings. In 2015, the cost of proof paid from State resources amounted to just under EUR 2,5 million. This includes the daily allowances paid to the Witnesses, travel expenses and financial loss. It is clear that the lengthening of business trips will also increase the cost of travel expenses incurred by the parties concerned and their assistants, some of which are paid by the State. It is a matter of dealing fairly with residents throughout Finland. What is a reasonable trip when you need the services of a district court?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u181	Mr President! Thank you, and thank you for a lot of good speeches. I feel that a lot has already been said today, and there will probably be some repetitions. But perhaps that is why I would like to raise even more of the expert opinions that were so clearly expressed in the Committee on Legal Affairs and I believe that the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs also shows up. It is worth looking at that report, and then everyone will certainly start to ask whether such a government proposal is acceptable as it is. And, of course, it was unfortunate that, for example, the ministerial exchange came in the middle of the debate and perhaps we did not feel that we could have had enough time with the new minister to discuss these issues — at least it seemed so — so that he too would have heard our concerns sufficiently and have been able to find solutions to those worst pains. The Judiciary in particular, of course, criticises the bill. The judges have expressed their views here, but the committee is of course listening to collective organisations, and the League of Judges has been very critical of this proposal. The Union of Judges considers it clear that "the proposal jeopardises the legal security and equality of citizens without any relevance to the national economy. Reducing district courts and increasing their size will not result in savings." They also talk about the timing of the project and the Court of Justice and the reform of monetary matters. These have all been on display here today. The Association of Finnish Police Organisations and the Legal Service are also opposed to the reform and say: "The development of the Network of Criminal Courts by significantly reducing the network will take place on economic rather than operational terms. Improving the efficiency of operations from a purely economic point of view is very short-sighted. The judiciary has already been under-resourced, a concrete example of which is the lengthening of processing times." The Bar Association's blog says: "If implemented, the renewal of the district court network would be reflected in citizens' everyday lives as longer district trips, which will have a significant impact on the length of time spent on the district day. This also means an increase in legal expenses. In the event of difficulties in dealing with courts, it is desirable that distance between courts be developed in order to ensure equal legal protection for citizens." — — — — And it's true that it needs to be developed. It became very clear that it would be very difficult to accept all these government proposals on the basis of expert opinions. And, as I said, I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has, interestingly, as usual, dealt with the proposal very thoroughly and, in fact, on many occasions we have agreed on the quality of the problems and their existence. Then we may have ended up with different solutions, whereby the RKP and others in the opposition, at least the old opposition, have felt that there are too many problems here to allow such a proposal to be adopted right now. This is a restructuring and savings law, but there has certainly been no justification, sufficient evidence of savings, and it seems that one hand is doing something that one hand will then do differently, the other will give and the other will take. If we are talking about 7.5 million, we can well understand the fact that it is also a question of buildings, that this sum is quite small if we compare it with new costs, that it is built or molded, and so on. Quite quickly, such costs will be used if new facilities are to be built. In that sense, I think that the aim of saving is a bad argument, especially when there is no demonstrable reason for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u182	Mr President! Almost all the important things have already been said here, but I would particularly like to draw attention to a few things in my brief speech. The objection to the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights does well to describe the problems that will arise when this draft savings bill is implemented. Firstly, the reduction of the district court network has obvious implications for regional equality. As a result of centralisation, the distances to services are bound to increase. There is a risk that the availability of justice services and, at the same time, the legal protection of citizens will be undermined. I warmly support the development of electronic services, but the use of video and other electronic means in this context sounds unrealistic for the foreseeable future. However, the effects of a legal amendment will immediately come to people’s lives. As a representative of Savo-Karjala, I am, of course, particularly concerned about the abolition of Varkaus and Iisalmi offices, and I have specifically looked at this from this point of view. As I said in the debut, the premises of the Kuopio office are in much worse condition than the premises in Varkaus and Iisalmi. Kuopio should be immediately repaired and expanded, while Varkaus and Iisalmi have very well-equipped and functional facilities, which are also modern and modern. On the basis of all this information, one wonders whether the cost-benefit analyses have been carried out with sufficient care when it comes to the proposal to close the two well-functioning offices. The lengthening of business trips will also increase travel costs for the parties concerned and their assistants, daily allowance costs and others, some of which are paid by the State. However, the State does not reimburse all the costs incurred by the parties in the longer journeys. The time spent on longer journeys is also the actual cost for the parties concerned. In this respect, some of the savings calculated for the reform may actually be the transfer of costs from the State to the courts. I wonder, therefore, whether this draft law has sufficiently carefully assessed the additional costs of this amendment for the State on the one hand and for the people in the courts on the other. Mr President! I support the motion for rejection and I hope that the matter will be prepared by the future Court of Justice and that proper cost-benefit analyses will be carried out. There really is a need for a time-out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u183	Mr President! I think it is perfectly understandable that people living in the region should trust that the officials of the Ministry of Justice will act on the same principles — and, of course, later on Parliament, which will then seal these decisions. I must agree with the criticism expressed at least in North Savo both at the mouth of the District Court judges and at the mouth of the police, and all these details, which are now contained in this government proposal, do not necessarily agree with its practical view. There are, for example, five judges in Iisalm, and they are a little surprised that the starting points of the Ministry of Justice for making new plans are based on future population projections. And when it is presented to them that the rent is clearly reduced by the mountain banker, and yet another comment is made that it is not known how much these new facilities will then cost in another city, it is difficult for them to understand this matter. Similarly, the CEOs of Ponsse, Olvi, Genelec, Normet and Profile find it very difficult to understand that when they work hard for Finland’s gross domestic product — there are two-digit figures that develop in exports every year — it is over 500 million — how can it be such a reverse system of remuneration that last December the Iisalmi Hospital was closed down and now the District Court is closed down. In my opinion, the matter is a little bigger than the closure of the district court: the region that beats the result for Finland is being treated like this, and this is a cumulative effect. We understand that the state must save public spending, but the whole should somehow be taken into account, and these people find it unfair that time and again the same region or city is being saved, and yet
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u184	Mr President! That is the case, the government is trying to save the costs of the courts by abolishing seven district courts and closing 21 district courts. This is quite a fact that this will affect citizens' legal security and the ability to do their business fairly, regardless of their place of residence. The increasing travel costs alone place people in an unequal position and particularly affect the position of low-income people outside of Congestion Finland. The last significant reduction in the judiciary took place seven years ago. The number of district courts was then dropped from 51 to 27 district courts. The government is now continuing to reduce the judicial system, even though no proper investigation and analysis of how it worked has been carried out on the last reduction in the district court network. How can the network be significantly reduced again if we do not know how the previous reform affected legal security and the functioning of the courts? What is left of the rule of law if people can be saved from legal protection without knowing the consequences? These are of great concern to me in this situation. Mr President! Also, according to the Judiciary Association, the Government’s proposal to reduce the district court network is not geographically equal. I would like to take the example of the situation in North Savo: the government is about to close down the offices of both Iisalmi and Varkaus. As I told you in that debate, there are fit, modern justice systems and judicial buildings which are about to be replaced by a rebuilt judiciary, and that is a waste of society's money and, at the same time, a loss of legal protection for people. How can we respond to this problem by means of remote communication — that is what I have been thinking about — and the use of video communications? Not everyone has enough skills and equipment, and even though some have them, remote communication is not going to work perfectly. There is always a problem with technology, and we should have waited for the technology to be put in order before we start solving these. On the other hand, when we talk about the attractiveness of regions, the security of local services is often raised. A sufficiently dense district court network is just as important to the vitality of our regions as other services. This must be the case if we are serious about guaranteeing citizens legal protection. It is also a question of regional policy, of shutting down government jobs. In view of the fact that the district court is dealing with matters of state administration, such as the police, enforcement, the Local Register Office, the Legal Aid Office and Veron, all the above-mentioned agencies will probably consider the need and scope of their activities if the district court offices cease to exist. The availability of state services also has an impact on the location of enterprises. It is also important in industrial policy. As the list now being discontinued is being reviewed, it is noteworthy that a large proportion of the closures are located in areas where there are long distances. This reform will increase the inequality of legal protection for people dependent on their place of residence. It will also significantly increase the cost of proof when the costs of the witness’s travel and loss of earnings increase considerably. Account should also be taken of the reduction in the number of police officers in sparsely populated areas and the extent to which their use of time is bound by the transfer of accused persons to the Court of Justice. This will contribute to increasing insecurity in sparsely populated areas when police officers are unable to carry out their normal duties and patrols. We know that the reduction of district courts also affects other legal services in the localities. At its worst, the closure of district courts also deprives the local authorities of their legal offices. They are usually concentrated in localities with district courts. In addition to private individuals, this weakens the legal advice of companies. Mr President! Instead of short-sighted austerity, we need a broader debate on how to develop the judiciary. From the point of view of power, it is extremely important that we politicians stay out of the courtrooms and advise the judge. Instead, we need to address the problem of reducing the number of cases that have grown and, in a way, increasing the number of people working in the courts to the shortest possible length of time. We also need to discuss how the basic funding of the courts can be secured, so that the legal protection of citizens is ensured throughout the country, regardless of the size of the purse. Mr President! That's why the Left Alliance is in favour of the wreckage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u185	Mr. Speaker! All the essential things have been said here in relation to this district court problem, in connection with this report, but I would like to emphasise three things in a consolidated way. First of all, when this is a matter of cost savings in large part, the remarkable thing is that, for example, the cost of new construction in Kuopio has not been known when the committee has produced its report. It is not the fault of the committee, but there has been no information, and it raises this question. Cost savings should be known in advance when we talk about the Ministry of Justice's field of activity. Point 2: In our region in the northern part of northern Savo, when the number of policemen has fallen from 38 to 22 in a few years, there is no longer a balance between tasks and resources. And now, with the new tasks, such as the transportation of prisoners, this imbalance is not increasing. In no way can it be regarded as a favourable development. And point 3 goes a little bit aside, but it's got something to do with it. For example, the Parliamentary Audit Committee, but also many other official bodies have drawn attention to the decline in the vitality of sub-regions and sub-regions, including the fact that certain tasks of central government have been cut off almost entirely. These are the last tasks remaining to be carried out by the state administration. The government's leaving the area. There's a lot of work to do. It would therefore be very desirable for the Ministry of Justice, and the Minister of Justice, to take account of these factors, which have been raised here in a constructive spirit. This has been a constructively critical debate, in which we still want to call for these factors to be taken into account when final decisions are taken. This has been a debate that goes beyond the government and opposition line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u186	Mr President! This proposal, this reduction in district court rights, is a threat to citizens' legal protection. From my constituency, Lapland, the performance pinches Kemi district court and leaves only one in Lapland to Rovaniemi, Lapland district court. According to the reform, only side offices will remain in Kemi. In addition, the meeting place will cease from Tornio and Kemijärvi and the office will cease from Sodankylä. This is a tough show for Lapland. Reducing district courts in Lapland means that many citizens' journey to the nearest district court can become unduly long. The costs are now being borne by customers, and the threshold for recourse to legal protection provided by the judiciary is increasing. After all, the citizens are already wondering to a large extent whether they will be able to go to trial on a case like this, and the fact that the distance is still long increases the threshold. Such a change will increase the regional inequalities of citizens and reduce access to justice-related services. The judicial process in district courts is largely based on the personal presence of the parties concerned. In terms of access to justice, the accessibility of courts is of great importance. It is true that the courts do not have to go along with them, but I guarantee that if there are 451 kilometers from the Utsjoki to Rovaniemi, then there will be a memorable distance from that one trip. It's a thousand miles back and forth. More detailed information on the underlying calculations would have been needed. I understand the austerity pressures of the government, but I think that we are already going beyond the pain limit to see how much of the district court network can be reduced at all. In calculating the savings, has the government taken into account the extra costs and the extra effort that citizens have to make to prolong their judicial journeys? This is where the Rovaniemi Administrative Court was recently abolished and merged with Oulu. It has already proved that there were no savings and that the processing times were on the contrary longer. In addition, the indirect effects of such decisions on the localities where district courts are proposed for closure should be noted. In addition to the jobs of district courts, these localities leave at least to a large extent other legal jobs, such as legal offices. There has been a lot of debate here about this, about relying on technology, for example, for video consultation, but it is unfortunately uncertain. We still have a lot of blind spots in the tributaries and in the countryside and these devices don't work. In the meantime, this change of minister took place, and it was clear to us in the committee hearings that there are problems in certain localities, including Varkaus, Iisalmi, Raasepori, Porvoo, Raahe and Sodankylä. Unfortunately, at least it gave the impression that Minister Lindström would have been more agreeable to this survival than the current Minister, Mr Häkkänen. This is where Mrs Torvinen raised this question in the debate on falling in love with the walls, but I must say that Mrs Adlercreutz has made a good speech here on why this decision is absurd. I would add theft to that list for my part. In the middle of the 21st century, I was a special assistant to Attorney General Koskinen, and that was when we went on our way to thievery. The Minister went to inaugurate the Varkaus justice system, and now we are about to put a punch at the door at the same time that there are no premises in Kuopio. I have seen an e-mail from one judge asking for free spaces and halls in Kuopio, and it is not available to him in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u187	Ärade talman, Mr President! "The Judiciary considers it clear that the proposal endangers the rights and equality of citizens,in order This is a direct quote and a rather clear text — a text from which we should catch. A few years after the last reform was carried out, we are now again making cuts to our legal system on the most controversial, purely fiscal grounds. The call for digitality to somehow save the situation is not acceptable here. This reform clearly threatens the equal rights of citizens to justice. Even now, a person who wants to be dealt with in a language other than Finnish is in a weaker position before the law. According to experts, this reform will make this situation worse. These are worries that can pass by with a shoulder sore, or they can be taken seriously. Already it is difficult to find enough Swedish-speaking staff for the courts. Preliminary inquiries suggest that now that offices are being shut down in both Western and Eastern Uusimaa, these people will not move after work to Espoo or Vantaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u188	Mr President! The Government’s proposal for a new court law is, in many respects, an imprudent proposal. The Greens are not in favour of this; we are in favour of rejecting it. The Government is seeking savings of approximately EUR 7 million with the proposal, with the aim of abolishing 7 district courts and closing 21 district courts. This concentration will increase the pressure on the remaining district courts and will require further construction and transfer of personnel. As a result, the calculations behind the savings made have been criticised. In addition, the reform will reduce the legal security of citizens and the practical conditions for dealing with matters. The realisation of linguistic rights is seriously weakening. The impact of the proposal on the length of proceedings and on court congestion can therefore be asked. The latest restructuring of district courts took place in 2010, when their number decreased to the current 27 district courts. The Government has not carried out a separate study on the impact of the 2010 reform on the availability of legal protection and the functioning of judicial institutions. There is a great shortcoming that a new reform will take place before assessing the impact of the previous changes. As a result of a government proposal, the district court or office would cease from 12 localities. The current sittings would be closed 14. This will have an impact on employment in the regions and on access to justice, for example in legal and legal offices. The reduction of the district court network has obvious implications for regional equality. As a result of centralisation, the distances to services are increasing. There is a risk that access to justice will be reduced and therefore the legal protection of citizens will be jeopardised. For citizens, the reduction of the district court network is detrimental to services, as distances are growing. According to the Judiciary Union, which issued its opinion at the working group stage, the proposed district court network of giant units is not geographically balanced and equality is not realised. It is true that people do not often need legal services in their lives, but when they do, it is a matter of questions that are relevant to them. The quality of justice services will then be extremely important and linguistic rights essential. District courts, where Swedish is a clear minority language, have been known to face challenges in the realisation of linguistic rights. Already, it is easy to prolong the proceedings for months if the party wishes to have the proceedings in Swedish. During the discussion of the Government proposal, it has been argued that it is easier to recruit people with language skills to larger offices. However, there is no practical evidence of this, as, for example, Espoo currently has problems finding Swedish-speaking staff. The situation of Swedish-speaking services is deteriorating especially in Uusimaa. Now Raasepor's office has a clear role to play in dealing with Swedish-speaking matters, but it is proposed to be closed. District courts of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area are already at the upper limits of their capacity. How, for example, can things be handled in Raasepori and Lohja in Espoo? In Eastern Uusimaa, the Swedish language status will collapse if the office is dissolved in Porvoo. With the reform, court training will change so that in the future, only Åland will be able to complete the training in Swedish. The closure of the Sámi-speaking offices will also weaken legal protection. The abolition of the Sodankylä office will inevitably lead to a significant deterioration in the capacity of the District Court of Lapland to hire Sámi-speaking staff. The reform of the District Court would also lead to Sámi-speaking people going to the District Court of Oulu in the future in matters of corporate restructuring and enforcement. The distance from Ivalo to Oulu is 510 kilometers. In no way can this be considered reasonable. In the case of the reduction of district courts, this is not only a matter of courts, but also of other legal services in the localities. Currently, private law firms and state legal aid offices are mainly concentrated in localities with district courts. Mr President, there are many reasons why this reform of the district court proposed by the government should not be carried out now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u189	Mr President, värderade talman! Det är ett sorgligt kapritel att tingsrättsreformen presenteras i den form som den tauri regeringen nu gör det. Det är ett sorgligt kapritel därför att man går åt tingsrätter på många orter i vårt land, och alldeles särskilt runt om i det som vi brukar kalla Svenskfinland. Det är ett sorgligt kapritel därför att den raus regeringen visar att man på riktigt inte bryr sig om hur man kan trygga de språkliga rättigheterna i verkligheten, i practiceken. Det skulle finnas lösningar, men man Väljer att inte se dem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u190	Mr President! The district court reform of the Sipilä Government will abolish seven district courts and close 21 of the present 57 seats. If this isn't concentration, then nothing. The opposition members of the committee, with the exception of the Finns of Peru, lodged a joint protest against the rejection of the motion. That objection has been dealt with in great detail, which is why this rejection has been brought to an end. I would like to raise a few of them in my own speech. Firstly, Mr President, this has been marketed through a savings law. With this concentration, the government is seeking savings of some EUR 5 to EUR 7 million, but, as has been pointed out here in several speeches, there are, however, insufficient explanations or comprehensive calculations of these savings. It has been noted in particular that here many representatives of the North Savo and also representatives of the entire Savo-Karjala region have pointed out that there has been no calculation of the abolition of the offices of Varkaus and Iisalmi district courts in particular. It may be that the reason is that when you have to present calculations that show that expenses are increasing, they would be a little difficult to do in the context of the Savings Act to put them on the table. On the contrary, in many other places that will be closed down, as distances increase and, for example, the time and resources spent on escorting police officers are dwindling, the travel costs of customers and witnesses are increasing and staff travels are increasing, it is difficult to see the savings that the government is seeking. As I said, the situation in North Savo is actually absurd in one word. Iisalmi and Varkaus are both in good condition, reasonably new houses, and we have to go to Kuopio too small and even in poor indoor air. It has even been rumored that there may be mold problems in the house. At the moment, there are not even enough halls, session halls and preparatory halls in Kuopio, and this concentration will mean that there will be additional building in Kuopio. Of course, it is quite possible that the whole house will have to be abandoned if it proves completely unusable. A significant part of Iisalmi's clientele, as has been pointed out here, is from Sukeva Prison, and the transport journeys, the time to be used, the police escorts, all double as we move to Kuopio. Here, as I recall, in his debut speech, Mr Eestilä pointed out that, from the Upper Savo area, those police patrols have been reduced to the model that there may be occasions at weekends, that there will be one patrol in the whole area, and then, if you think of the situation, for example, even if there are two patrols there during the day, one of them will be forced into this kind of long escort transport, so you can say that the security situation in that area is clearly deteriorating. The timing of the reform is also poor, because these estimated savings are concentrated, as has already been said here in the debatable phase, on this Aipa reform project on the digitisation of the courts, and yet it has been decided to transfer it to 2021. As many of my fellow Members have pointed out, for example Mrs Ojala-Niemelä, it would probably have made sense to wait and discuss a possible proposal for the creation of a judicial office, and only then to consider this reform of the judicial network, because it would certainly have been the planning of such a reform of the district court and the assessment of all these implementation options, if that were precisely the core task of the Court of Justice, if such an agency were to be set up. However, there is a great deal of concern about how we will be able to ensure the availability of legal protection in different areas of Finland in the future. These linguistic rights have also been well mentioned here. This reduction in the district court network certainly has implications for regional equality and also for linguistic rights. They are becoming significantly weakened. As a result of the concentration, these distances to legal services are increasing, and if you think of the so-called secondary, third towns in the region, as in the case of theft and Iisalmi, then the legal services of these localities will die as these offices disappear. All in all, all other legal services, legal and legal aid offices, will probably disappear from these localities. It can then be said that access to justice for citizens will be reduced. All in all, I dare even argue that the legal protection of citizens is at risk in this type of situation. In particular, the number of kilometres north and the conditions that have been highlighted here seem to be really unreasonable. Sometimes it seems that when these things are planned around the windows of the Helsinki Ministry, it is not understood how large Finland is geographically and how many hundred kilometres are still above Oulu. In that sense, I hope that every Member of Parliament in this Chamber will actually use its own discretion when deciding how to deal with this government proposal and this report. I really hope that the government parties will do everything they can to see whether solutions can be found here. In some ways I myself would like to see that, when there are clearly reasons why it would have made sense to postpone the whole of this reform, both this Aipa and this creation of the Court of Justice, this could still be considered as not making bad decisions at this stage but giving us more time to take better decisions in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u191	Mr President! Having listened to the debate here, many Members have spoken very well and with great emphasis, and I should like to make a few comments on this. Generally speaking, I am rather positive about our efforts in this country to reform our public service structures, to look for different types of measures that can improve the quality of services and, of course, these structural solutions will also help to achieve savings. But there is always a fundamental need to be able to identify, on the one hand, the claimed benefits as well as the claimed and sought savings. And, in fact, from this point of view, this reform of the district court network is very difficult to digest. This is now being justified in the form of a savings law, between EUR 5 and EUR 7 million, rather than the annual savings, and yet when you listen to what experts have to say and look at this very high-quality report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the big question arises as to how realistic these savings are. It has then been said a great deal here that this reform will also improve the quality of services, introduce new practices and make it easier for people to have their daily lives — there has been a lot of reference to this digitalisation — but these promises are also very much in the air. In general, considering the quality of services, it certainly involves, for example, the realisation of these widely spoken linguistic rights. And here a lot of colleagues have gone through very well that there is a risk that they will not improve in this situation. Well, then, this aspect of digitalisation: it is probably the case that in the future, hopefully, we will have systems that will enable us to increasingly make it possible, for example, to distance ourselves from court sessions, but the key question is whether they are working properly at the moment. In the worst case scenario, this reduction in the network will lead to an ever-increasing increase in the time people will have to spend on these days. It is visible here on the customers' side, on the ordinary people's side, as well as on the authorities' side. When the police are forced to do these driving gigs, that time is, of course, away from somewhere else. As far as these savings are concerned, when we consider this need for investment in these remaining premises, which has also been raised a lot here, the question arises as to whether this is going to cost us more than savings with this reform. All in all, these issues should have been examined more closely in this work and considered in a much more detailed way, so that we could see whether this reform really meets the good objectives that this is currently pursuing. There is a strong suspicion in this regard. Then it is also good to remember the fact that it is not just the district court itself that matters, but that it is much more important for those sittings. It relates not only to legal services but also to many other aspects of people’s everyday life. It is certainly the case that development goes in the direction it has gone before: when district courts have been abolished in a locality, it has also been reflected in these access to legal services. They will also concentrate, which would be honest here, quite frankly, and this is something that this report goes through with great merit. With regard to the restructuring of these public services, too, we would like to see a very careful examination of what the previous changes have led to. In this respect, it would really have been desirable for this reform of 2010 to have been properly analysed and checked whether it led to the objectives it was set at the time. That would probably have been the basis for this reform too. Perhaps the last point needs to be raised, among other things, by Mr Ojala-Niemella, who has often pointed out that, in this legal field too, there are a lot of these changes coming up and they have been investigated, it would certainly have been quite appropriate to wait for these clarifications first before we go into this district court network. In this respect, it is easy to support this joint opposition protest in favour of rejecting this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u192	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank those present in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and of course other Members, for their very thorough and good work once again. We did a great deal of work, and unfortunately this time, exceptionally, we did not reach a common conclusion. Indeed, dozens of experts have been consulted here, and these savings, which have now been suspected here: they have been informed by officials of the Ministry of Justice, among other things, and that is why we, the Legal Committee, have such a proposal. I'll read it a little later, and then we'll see if they come true in the finals. As I have just said, this is a painful matter for many places, for many regions. Well, I myself come from that Uusimaa, and in fact Uusimaa is making the biggest changes and upheavals in this district court network and in this judicial reform in general, but nevertheless, as chairman of the Legal Committee, I am driving this forward and I believe in the future that this will improve the operation and make savings, as we have been told, although it may be true that there will be additional costs in various construction projects, and they have not really been able to be calculated here. For example, the Justice and Police Department of Kuopio is in such a condition that people are unable to work there, so it has to be corrected. Then the proportion of these expansion costs — today I was still trying to see if they could be calculated, and there is no complete calculation, so that this has been a little challenging in this regard. I would like to raise a few points here. I have already mentioned this so-called digitalisation, and that is much more than this Aipa, which has now been stretched out once again. One big part of it is these security arrangements in these halls — access controls and other secure facilities — and now the fact is that these existing halls and the number of rooms are such that you can say that at least I personally am ashamed and sometimes afraid of the circumstances under which our judiciary works in difficult cases, sometimes with dangerous customers. In other words, it is now possible to put it in order when the number of these Chambers is reduced, when it cannot, cannot and does not have the mind to have all the existing Chambers equipped with these appropriate security arrangements and also with this other technology, which will allow, for example, remote consultation or consultation, otherwise and to be recorded in the district court when it is the future. And that is why we must first decide on the number of these sites and then start the armaments work on this digitalisation. Of course, there are other ideas and ideas. In fact, a written procedure has been in place for a long time, i.e. it is intended that no more people, even if they are charged with criminal matters, will be required to go to court there. Now we have a so-called fine law in the Legal Committee, in which such a basic drink driving would be dealt with directly by the police in the field and even these people would no longer be brought to justice. In addition, there is a real desire that the Witnesses should be heard even more at a distance so that the 500 miles would not be needed. In the same way, prisoners would be heard from prison by remote communication. This is the future, and it will generate those savings. It is said to be a one-off saving when the pressure on investment decreases, according to the Ministry of Justice's calculations, will be EUR 2 million, and then the annual savings will also be EUR 2 million, which will result in savings in the future. Mr President! Of course, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also been vigilant here, and that is why I am reading our proposal for a statement, which has been put here: 'The Commission requires the government to monitor the restructuring of district courts and the consequences of any reform of the procedure for dealing with summary disputes relating thereto, paying particular attention to the territorial availability of legal protection, the realisation of linguistic rights, the economic impact and the provision of legal services, and to report to the Committee on Legal Affairs on these matters by the end of 2022.' So this is the kind of binding statement, or it is said that we at least present these things — let's see what this hall will then decide next week on this issue. Well, here's where we're gonna figure out what's going to happen with it. Mr President! Just a few more words about this specialization. Of course, since our own legislation has become more complex, even according to these district judges, and that EU legislation also brings all sorts of new and difficult things to us here in Finland, the judges I know well believe that they are no longer able to control everything. And then, I'm not saying that it's really big is always beautiful, but always a little bigger unit is a unit where it's possible to specialise in different areas. As I mentioned, if you look at these soft things, that is, these issues of meeting and caring for a child, such as the Follo mediation, it is not available enough at the moment. You can't really imagine these things being taken care of in a unit of three or five judges. It is such a difficult and challenging area that it requires a lot of training and experience, whereas if you counterbalance the heavy financial crimes — cartel cases or others — they require expertise in your own field. In other words, these larger units will enable such specialisation, as well as a more equitable distribution of work. It's important to keep working. Very good speeches have been made here. They have all been quite good and worthy of support, at least so far, but I personally support this government proposal and this report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which includes the draft statement I have just read, so that those who are here in 2022 will be able to follow what has happened here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u193	Mr President! I listened to that statement and, in fact, only one question: does it not, in any case, belong to the Ministry of Justice? In that sense, these things must certainly also be brought into this house in any case. I hope that the government parties will now find even more to present for next week. It seems that this type of statement is a bit like the so-called business as usual — just the work that the Ministry of Justice should do anyway and what we as representatives here in Parliament should also follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u194	Mr President! This government proposal, which has now come to this great Chamber as a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the reduction of district courts in this country, seems to me to be a very sad case. Of course, I understand that the debt-guilty state has to look at all the expense items and thus make savings, but what I would have wanted as a representative of the government party is that there would have been a genuine calculation of what is achieved here: will anything be achieved or even lost? In my own life, as chairman of the municipal council of the rural community, I have felt that the promises made to us by the state as state measures, that something is being observed or monitored or monitored, are the same as an empty barrel that fumbles when things go downhill — the promises have nothing to do with it. From experience, Mr President, I can tell you that we were abolished... — — — — Or not closed down the police station, officially the police station still exists in Ilomants, it is a ministerial decision, but the police posts were transferred to Joensuu and Kite. If someone tells me that it does not mean that the police station ceases, then it is more than that of the chief of police. We had police chief Huokko Ilomants assure us that your police station is not going anywhere. This happened last spring, I think it was the end of May, or was there early June, however, this year. Now the police have been transferred from Ilomants, which in practice means that the police always leave Joensuu and its accessibility is what it is. That's how you get a guy to kill with a duller knife, the police are that far away, you don't need much skill. The talk that police services are improving is just nonsense. Another matter of such nonsense is the operation of Senate real estate in this country. Although I am a representative of the Government Party — let me be put on the cross to depend on it — the fact is that the activity of Senate properties in rural areas does not meet the standards of good governance and fair procedure required of government officials. I know that the civil servants of the limited liability company do not seem to be responsible for the Senate properties, but the method of cutting down government services in rural areas is seeking a parallel in Finland's judicial history. It is a system in which the value of the existing state property is set at zero, the government operators are charged terrible rent for the state property, which means that the state operator is forced to leave it when the funds are not sufficient. That is the basis for ending that office when it is so enormously expensive when the budget is constantly being reduced. But what is the outcome? Why does the truth not count here, as in this case of Iisalm and Stealing? When you concentrate on the main centre of the province, that means that rent prices are going up. There are two- or three-fold rent prices compared to what they are in rural municipalities. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a huge publishing machine has been created that will plunge Finland into a predicament that has never been seen before. This is a cold fact: when costs go up, it is gradually reflected in ever-increasing wage demands in the negotiations on the labour market, and it ultimately leads to our competitiveness being lost. I have been so annoyed by this for so long that I decided to take the floor in spite of the fact that I am being reproved in the group that such things are not allowed to be spoken — its man will be able to endure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u198	Mr President! It is very good that Mr Hoskonen is telling us all what he himself thinks about this. On this point, Mr Hoskonen, we are very much in agreement. We have the difference that you are a representative of the government party, and now I would like to ask you, Mr Hoskonen, whether you are going to vote against this motion because you have the opportunity to do so. A representative from the centre also has the opportunity to vote as he wishes. No one's gonna shoot for it either if they vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u199	Mr President! I really appreciate the many contributions made here — by Mr Hoskonen and the colleagues in this House, Mr Kääriäinen, Mr Eestilä — who have dared to say from the government parties that the calculations that should be made are not and are inadequate in the sense of what is envisaged. In that sense, I really hope that you will have that civil courage, first of all, of course, to do everything possible to save the situation, but if the government does not bend here, then it will also vote conscientiously. Mr Hoskonen, when you spoke about the transfer of police posts to Ilomants, a friend of mine from Ilomantsi said that there is at least one good thing here: no one in Ilomants is known to the police anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u200	Mr President! I would also have liked to have told Mr Hoskose that you have fellow believers in the north. Because we now have a patrol of Enontekio to retire, both policemen, and your grandfather has come that no one will take the place. From now on, no matter what happens, the Enontekiö, which is 100 kilometres away from every other police station, does not have a police officer right away. This is a matter of concern, and we too have begun to address this police station as a cold station, which is to say that there are officially premises but there is no police.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u203	Mr President! As a representative of Parliament for the third term, I understand that, with my limited powers, such reports will certainly not be stopped or the decision changed, that is clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u206	Mr President! It is here that I read on Twitter that the reform of the alcohol law is apparently moving, and it is now likely that there will be some slacking within the government about the fact that this tax increase will also be buried. In that sense, I wonder if this would not be the place of the so-called counter-resistance. In other words, when we have spoken here that, if this judicial office comes, it is a matter of considering the district court network, and then, on the other hand, if it is the case that this Aipa system too is being postponed — as we know is going to be postponed — then would it not also be possible to say that it is a good time for us to move this matter forward in this haste? There is obviously no increase in the alcohol tax, and this whole legislative reform seems to go to that part of the year to come, so that I am now giving some political advice that can't we put the brakes on and say that there is probably no rush to take this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u207	Let us move on to the list of speakers, where Mr Östman has long been waiting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u208	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here, and Mr Adlercreutz has rightly asked: hur kan man fetta ett sådant beslut, att man stanger ned en verksamhet när man nylgen har byggt ett now hus? Och han tog då Jakobstad som ett exempel. Och till det finns bara ett svar: det är uppåt väggarna och i det är fallet uppåt de tomma väggarna. Mr Hoskonen also gave a very good speech, and he also explained why he was so angry. Yes, one should be a little angry: recognition of the truth is the beginning of wisdom. But then, when asked how Mr Hoskonen was going to vote, the matter suddenly turned into a petty nuance. I also hope that the representative will open this up. It is just as many representatives have said here that the proposal is a blow to many places where residents should have a uniform right to access justice. And just as Mr Henriksson and many other colleagues have said, there are significant changes and weakenings to linguistic rights. As a result of centralisation, distance to legal services will increase, as other local justice services will also die with the abolition of nationalities. On the basis of government estimates, the savings resulting from the abolition of courts would be between 5 and 7 million. To the extent that neither the government nor the officials have been able to demonstrate, at least in a credible way, what these savings consist of, I would say that the amounts proposed are virtual money. Minister of Justice Häkkänen held the 13th of September. speech at the Justice State Seminar. A few remarks from the Minister's speech: "The rule of law is currently at the heart of European policy. The European Union is founded on a common basis of values, and at the heart of this base of values there is a strong rule of law... An efficient and high-quality court, a law-based society and clear and transparent rules of play create the predictability needed for investment and growth. The role of the judiciary and the judicial system as the basis for economic prosperity will need greater attention from the government and parliament in the coming years. In addition to its fundamental value, the rule of law plays an important role in Finland's economic success." Finally, the Minister hoped that "the seminar would stimulate an ever stronger debate on how Finland could continue to be among the best legal states in the world". If the Minister of Justice were here tonight, I would like to ask how the abolition of these courts is compatible with the objective of Finland remaining among the best countries of justice in the future. I think the Minister's speech is very much in conflict with what he has done. The opposition members of the committee, with the exception of the People's Republic of Finland, have lodged a joint protest against the rejection of this government's proposal, and the Christian Democratic Parliament agrees with this objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u209	Mr President! When you listen to the conversation, you notice quite clearly that this is balanced in this kind of long distances, with a few settlements and an equal network and even then with more efficiency in the horror triangle. In its own opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed that the district court network remains sufficiently comprehensive to guarantee people access to justice. This proposal has tried to tackle this problem of long distances — for example, these 12 separate seats — and when I come from one of those places in Kuusamo, I think it is a good thing that this remained. 220 km It is a long way to Oulu and it may already be 300 kilometres from the very edge of the keeper, so it is very good that this separate meeting place remained. But one thing we are truly saddened about is, of course, the loss of office services in the locality. I have no doubt that these services will be available via e-services, as long as it does not happen to banking services, that when bank offices disappear, customers suddenly feel that banking services are good local services when they get it at their own kitchen table or at their own bedroom table. But if you think about the region, every job is important, including these offices. Their survival is particularly important for the person who loses his job, namely that it is not easy to find a replacement job. And it will happen slowly, as has been said in the report, that other services, such as legal services, will then gradually disappear. Generally speaking, I wonder about this electrification: why does that work not go in the other direction of the electric wire, when it seems to always go in the middle of the city?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u210	Mr President! Yes, a very good debate has taken place this evening on this issue, and I have noticed that many representatives of the government parties have also made very critical contributions to this reform. On the basis of this, it is a good idea to hope when Mr Hoskonen said that in the dark hours of the night we need to think about how to deal with this issue, that more representatives of the government parties should think about how to proceed with this issue during the dark hours of the night. That would in itself be justified — although I understand, of course, that savings should be made in public finances — when savings are quite long in this area. In other words, when we have been through this many times, it may be that, at first, this reform will entail additional costs, by no means savings, and if the savings come, then they will come later, I would certainly not mind if the representatives of the government parties were to ask themselves a little more about whether there would be some reason to postpone this issue, especially when there is still a report on the Court of Justice, for which these matters would certainly have to be carried out. So this would be a place to fund the government, and hopefully then, in the dark hours of the night, that wisdom will be found there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u211	Mr President! Indeed, when the government programme is implemented, there are hundreds of decisions, hundreds of which very, very many, as we have seen in the results, we all know. Employment is improving, and many other good things have happened, and there are also painful cuts. The package is a whole package, and that is the starting point for each member of the government party to reflect on his voting procedure. The opposition is also aware of this. You, too, have had to take decisions during your own reign, which certainly do. And this is precisely the case with the signatory because the service is being undermined in rural towns, in those regions where there is still room for manoeuvre. But sometimes it's the wild nature that's hard to shake. It should also be mentioned that there are good things in this government proposal: developing processes, electronic consultation, so that witnesses can be heard even 500 kilometres away. Mr Kulmala said this in his own speech as an expert police officer, or in his previous working life there has been a police officer and a long career. He and the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, an official who has made a respectable police career, know that this is something that needs to be developed. They make savings. However, the fact is that if police stations leave rural areas and the network of courts becomes very few, it will lead to legal problems, it is absolutely certain. Finally, Mr President, let me give you another example of what it is about rural development and why it has poked. For example, it has often been promised to repair an old section of the railway line in my municipality of residence in Ilomants so that wood traffic and many other things can work. It's been moaned back and forth. It has already been promised twice that the end piece, 40 km, will be repaired, but it has still not been repaired. Then it is said in some speeches that there is nothing to transport there. Well, it's the same thing that if there's no water in the house, there's no water in the house, then you have to carry it on the bucket. So if we don't fix the infra, nothing will develop. And what we're dealing with here is a difficult matter, but just now... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u222	Mr President! I too, Mr Hoskonen, am concerned about the sub-regions and the sub-regions. At the moment in the government, Mr Hoskonen, the party you represent is in the process of promoting not only a reform of the district court, which also vaccinates the sub-regions and the sub-regions, but also a reform of the social welfare system and on-call reform that drives the regional hospitals down. I would now like you, Mr Hoskonen, to speak in the same way in your own group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u226	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, you did not finally say how you will vote, but your speeches will have an impact. Our representative of the Finns Party has not signed that objection, but after your excellent speech — or there are many of them — I was quite convinced that this proposal is not fair, fair, regionally wise. My conclusion is that tomorrow, when we are actually dealing with this issue in the group, for the first time tomorrow, I myself will suggest that our group will act as Mrs Hokkonen says it is right to do on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u233	I would also ask Mr Kankaanniemi, if there is a follow-up, to come and tell him about this toilet — apparently not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u234	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Hoskonen's speech made me wonder even more about this regional policy, because, as I said in my own speech, the abolition of these district courts and associations has the effect that the law firms, the legal aid offices, will also be stale in those areas. In that sense, I thought that the government had a liquidator named Antti Rantakokko, former Mayor of Salo, who made such a statement as to whether it was now someone called Life Force for District Cities or similar, and there were very good things listed — it was here that they talked about the importance of regional hospitals in these regional cities, where they talked about how important it is to make these transport communities work, how important it is to get regional education as such — and then, when you look at government policy, it seems that there are very many things that hit these vital factors that could be used to support these regional cities. In that way, it seems that the government itself does good research, but then may not read them or at least not act on them. Somehow this seems extremely strange, when at least the image of the citizens has been that there are parties in the government for which Finland as a whole is important and for which the towns in the region are important and who are not just looking at the number one cities in the region, just as the report on the Coastal Size concluded well that this issue does not improve in any direction by confrontation, but should be taken care to ensure that the whole of Finland is developed equally. In some ways, I just wish people like Hoskose, could I say, who are speaking directly there in the groups, would be listened to and taken to heart what they want to bring up. I believe that when we take care of Finland as a whole and its vitality, it is in the best interests of Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u235	Mr President! As a Helsinkier, however, I would like to say that neither the people of Helsinki nor the people of Vanta nor the people of Espoo are being treated so horribly. This is about the legal protection of individuals, a single small person, not a very strong person, no matter where he lives. Although there are also very clear problems with these distances, this also applies to the Uusimaa and these big cities. Here too there are really long distances and there are not necessarily any public instruments, which could, for example, come to the Vantaa District Court from Eastern Uusimaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u239	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u240	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There is an interesting legal project in the process, in fact quite unique and, internationally speaking, unique. Its contents are not yet deduced from the name. It seems complicated, but its purpose is to simplify. It is a pleasure to be able to present it and also to exchange ideas on this intersectoral entity, which is part of the health growth strategy and, in fact, the direction of the social welfare sector. We're always happy to talk about social structures, we've been doing it for years. This has to do with social research. The Government has therefore submitted a proposal to Parliament for a new law on secondary use of social welfare data. The reason for this is, among other things, the EU Data Protection Regulation, whose requirements have now been introduced into the letter and spirit of this law. The aim is to make the use of data, i.e. large-scale data collections of all of us, flexible and secure, and for this purpose the draft law proposes in practice the creation of a new licensing authority. It facilitates the use of information and, on the other hand, solves complex, sometimes years-long applications for authorisation for information. So the whole point here is about the secondary use of social welfare information, the information that is primarily collected for the benefit of our own health. In the alternative, where it can be used in a secure way: secondary use means, for example, scientific research and the management and direction of the entire social system, a concrete tool for knowledge management. Mr President! Finland has exceptionally comprehensive and high-quality health information resources, as I mentioned. The only problem is that they are in a number of different information systems and in the hands of several different authorities. For the same purpose, licences and separate requests for information have been required from several different authorities. If an entity has wanted to carry out a study, for example in relation to a particular people’s disease, the collection of individual variables has been slow, laborious and has even prevented the proper and necessary use of the data in terms of information management and research in this field. This new law means that it facilitates the processing of information requests through the new licensing authority, speeds up access to information and improves information security, and this is an important part of the bill. Unfortunately, we know that current practices in the secondary use of social media data, even though it is research that does not meet the requirements of protection of trust and protection of personal data required by the sensitive nature of the data. One of the key objectives of this bill is to better protect customer confidence and sensitive questions about private life. As part of the exploitation of data, the possibility of increasing research and innovation activity will also increase. So this is also one of the keys to the international market for Finland when different parties are wondering where research is being carried out. This is also the key to preventing disease and developing new methods of treatment. This will bring more effective medicines to the market, and it is estimated that a high level of business and research activities will be created around the activities of the licensing authority, which can, ladies and gentlemen, also mean more jobs in Finland. These would be the much-speaked high-skilled jobs that we decision-makers often like to call for in our speeches. Here is very briefly about this vast set of laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u241	Mr President! The Act on the secondary use of social and health data — i.e. in practice, it could be said that it is a secondary use for purposes other than direct service to the patient. It is a question of developing research, statistics and monitoring. Data on the stock, biobanks, gene banks and the national social security register would be collected by the licensing authority established within the framework of the THL and would allow the use of information from one place. In other words, it is a matter of extensive exploitation of research and knowledge, as the Minister said in his presentation. In the future, we would then have a single licensing authority that would centrally grant access to information relating to social welfare and health care and deal with requests for information. If this licence was granted, the licensing authority would gather the necessary information from different registers, edit, merge and pre-process. This would simplify the operation and make it easier in many ways. A secure environment would enable data to be used not only for research and statistics but also for development and innovation activities, teaching, management, supervision, guidance and planning tasks of the authority. However, the use of data would be controlled by legislation and public authorities, which would ensure that the use takes place in a secure manner. The government's proposal in this respect must therefore be supported in many ways. A few comments on this proposal, which I personally consider to be very good, relate, among other things, to the major reform of social welfare and health care. Impact of research on well-being and health: This will increase the use of research data for a wider research community. The increase in research indirectly increases people's well-being and health, allowing the use of individual data, allowing the introduction of effective treatments and new medicines in certain risk groups. This will improve and strengthen the care and safety of patients. Facilitating the use of information in the social services system can be one of the most important legislative changes in relation to information management and the construction of a service system in the future social services system. This will enable the development of a knowledge base for decision-making and management needs. It enables the real-time use of information from service providers in data management. Research, development and new service innovations create conditions for the development of the service system in a more customer-oriented direction and provide the basis for a more individualised culture of care and service. In order to develop the service structure, it is important to obtain research on effective welfare and health technologies, for example, to replace institutional care and to develop home care. Data production related to primary health care has improved in recent years, but the situation with regard to open social care services has long been unsustainable. There is little systematic collection of information on open social care services, which has made it difficult to develop services. I hope this bill will bring improvements to this. The proposal also facilitates the integration objectives of social welfare reform in improving data collection. Mr President! In its opinion on the budget, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health specifically dealt with the whole issue. We were very concerned about how to secure sufficient resources for information resources and registers in the social and health sector for research, development and innovation activities and planning, management, guidance and control purposes. According to the studies received, new services and operating models allow a rapid and flexible analysis of the effectiveness of medicines, products and methods, for example. However, the committee noted that there are major risks in these areas, particularly in relation to insufficient funding for clinical research. For this reason, the committee called for EUR 5 million to be added to state funding for research at university level in health care services, even though the need for this is much greater. I hope that when Parliament deals with the future state budget, this whole will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u242	Mr President! This important issue is therefore a matter of further processing of patient data. In principle, you might think that this kind of thinking is quite welcome and it is all to be supported even in part also for these commercial purposes, which have already been addressed to some extent. This will enable us to develop new medicines, new treatments for rare diseases. This will enable better management. This will certainly make it possible to create new jobs in the future and thus increase tax revenues. All in all, this has the potential to produce many positive effects. Well, then there is the 'but' which always goes with these things, the central question that we have today when we talk about the digitisation of all things and about the unlimited information and the use of its information, and it is about information security. It is therefore a good thing that this package has been updated since the consultation and that more attention has been paid to this issue of information security, and I hope that this issue will actually be kept in mind very carefully. As we have seen in Finland, it is not unusual for us to have information that should not fall into the hands of anyone other than the one who needs it accidentally ended up in the wrong hands. People make human mistakes, and there may then also be things that were not originally hoped for, and that is why we need to pay huge attention to this issue of information security. This is also a huge economic issue and, unfortunately, there is also a black market for this patient information. In the United States, for example, patient data has been sold through the Tor network. If the cost of patient information is $20,000, I think, then if you think about taking HUS's medical records, their market value would be 200 billion. It's a huge amount of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u243	Mr President! I thank Minister Saarikko and the Government. This performance is extremely good and important. As we have already heard, this has a varied positive effect, although of course these problems, which may be linked to them, must be taken seriously. It is stated here that this information can be used for statistics, research, development and innovation activities, teaching, information management, guidance and supervision by the authorities, and for the planning and clearing up of authorities. In other words, when we obviously have quite a unique database in Finland in this respect, this secondary use of it enables us to make use of it, which, at best, reasonably and responsibly managed, may also mean great opportunities for business as a result of the creation of businesses and jobs and the development of Finland's IT and innovation activities. So, in that sense, it's very good. I would like to ask the Minister: is it possible to make this information available to private individuals for a fee, or is it planned to do so? When they are certainly of great value to some research institutes and the pharmaceutical industry and other research, is this possible, and if not or if so, what are the arguments and how can these things be promoted? This issue of data protection is indeed the biggest challenge and issue. It is very important that citizens' information is protected from abuse, and that is something that both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other committees need to clarify carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u244	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for presenting the law. This is indeed both an interesting law and a very necessary law. We need this new licensing authority to safeguard patient data and personal data requests, and I also see a lot of opportunities in this law for future innovations and the development of research. But, of course, it is a matter of people's sensitive personal data. It is very important to ensure security issues related to this law. For each of us, an infinite amount of data, my data, can be collected in different databases, and it is really essential that people themselves be able to determine who can use this data and what conditions they can use it. Certainly, there are many companies that would be willing to take advantage of different kinds of information, but one must be able to rely on people’s data to be safe and protected from any abuse. For example, it is very surprising that when you look at sectors that are the subject of global hacking or cyberattacks, the top5 is the knowledge of the globalist root health sector. Fortunately, this is not the situation in Finland at the moment, but we must be aware that it is a serious threat, and we must ensure that our systems are reliable and complete in this regard. I would like the Minister to explain how to ensure that information security is secure on these issues, and I certainly hope that this issue will be dealt with carefully and carefully in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u245	Mr President! This proposal seems quite justified. It is important that we have up-to-date and harmonised methods of how we use this huge amount of information and also how we protect it if necessary. Social and health information can indeed bring a great deal of added value to research, to the economy from the point of view of the national economy, and then, on the one hand, to the everyday life of people and all of us through science and drug development. In general, however, I would tend to think that not only do public organisations have access to and analyse data through different algorithms, but people themselves will also have an increasing number of rights in relation to what people are collecting. When we talk about people's own data — we are easily collected not only in terms of data on social media but also in terms of purchase data, mobility data, data on telecommunications, genetic data, financial data, online data, energy consumption data and many other information — so if this information were to be brought into the personal control of individuals to the extent that it is practical and technically possible, I believe that it could generate new kinds of markets and new business and also autonomy for what people want to share on their own. Of course, in a supranational world, where many things travel across borders on the Internet, full self-management of information is probably not possible, but I think that these steps should be taken. I understand that the MinTC is meant to experiment on this issue. I have not heard of them yet, but I would also like to see this argument taken into account in the context of social information.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u246	Mr President! As the Minister said there, we have very comprehensive and valuable information resources in the field of social welfare and health care, but unfortunately they have now, for example, been so poorly exploited for research purposes, precisely because of this complexity and the requests for authorisation to many different parties. I have therefore understood that this bill will bring flexibility and less bureaucracy and thus speed things up when we want to use this information. I understand that this is not a matter of direct contact with the public, but rather of such indirect use of this information, and if I have correctly understood the draft law, then information security will now only improve and the protection of individuals will improve, but it will certainly be carefully examined. In other words, I think that this bill has good arguments and therefore the bill is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u247	And now, Mr Hoskonen, and after him, the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u248	Mr President! It is good that the processing of data in health care, our human health data, is streamlined and updated by legislation. We all know that human health information is very confidential and, as the Minister rightly said in his presentation, it is good to have all this information under a common law and a common cover, in a huge number of different sources and in the use of very many different officials. It is particularly important to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of this social welfare reform, when people's health information is, as we know, extremely secret and confidential information, if this tendering and open competition comes and the market economy enters the health sector too, then it should also consider what information can be made available to the public, because it is easy for them to get into private, large companies, for example, insurance companies, and then there may be some difficulty for the public to obtain even life insurance or health insurance — if that health report has already passed through a health service company to an insurance company owned by that company. There is a clear contradiction in my view. I hope that attention will also be paid to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u249	And Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u250	Mr President! Thank you for your interest in this interesting bill. As I said, this is quite new at international level, and it is also – and I think it is fair to say so – to make Finland an attractive destination country, a country of high knowledge and research, where data is also more easily accessible to researchers and thus to companies. That's one part of this. But the second, far more valuable to me, is the capital of information management that this can increase in the future regions of strong organisers, whose task is to be the masters of the system and, as it were, to assess strategically what is needed in each region, for example on the basis of the state of health or age variables of the population concerned and other estimates. This law has been prepared by a wide range of social players, including: Sitra has been closely involved in this impact work, and the work goes on for years. The officials of the Ministry have put together a worthy combination of difficult questions and related answers, and I would now like to make two very detailed answers to the two points raised here, to which all this relates. How would the law safeguard individual data protection? That is a well-founded question, and this has been considered particularly carefully at the very end of the law. When personal data relating to an individual are needed for a secondary use by several controllers, such as the Population Register Centre or Kela, the new law provides that licences would be granted centrally by the Authority for the use of social welfare and health care, which is established by this law. It gathers the data and combines them. The permit authority maintains a centralised secure environment where the data would mainly be made available to the authorised person. The data generated in this case would only be processed in one place and would not be transferred to the licensee, i.e. the person who requested this information for example for his research, and this will reduce the risk of data protection breaches. The aim is to make the secondary uses of social media information transparent and transparent in such a way as to improve citizens' access to information from studies in which customer information is processed. We're not getting any information on this now, are we? The authorities whose data are covered by the law should produce descriptions of the data content of their registers and so on. All of this is therefore now linked to the obligation of the Data Protection Regulation at EU level too, which this law is the first one in Finland to say is true now. And again, if you will allow me, President-in-Office, can this be used for commercial purposes? The representative of Kankaanniemi had a question of selling information, as it were. Here is what we are saying: the use of personal data for scientific research is permitted under the EU Data Protection Regulation. According to that Regulation, scientific research is interpreted not only as academic research but also as technological development,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u251	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u252	Mr President! We are now dealing with the law on general housing allowance. This is an open-minded and challenging whole which I would like to open up to you now. Under the government's authority, there was a group of incentive traps and the dismantling of them, which also continued to reflect on the government's mid-term dispute. As part of the strengthening of the incentive to work and housing, the Government decided to introduce a municipal rent-specific ceiling in the spring row. In this context, the Government also decided that the maximum housing costs of the general housing allowance should be linked to the cost-of-living index instead of the rental index. Then, in the summer, as always from political decisions, when officials and officials have to make concrete decisions and legislation, when the decision on a square - rent cutter was actually being prepared, it was discovered that it would have considerably complicated the current housing allowance system and significantly weakened the housing allowance for small dwellings. That is why the government decided to implement changes to housing support in the autumn budget debate, but gave up the planned square cutter as a way to do this. Instead, the Government decided to return the maximum housing cost of so-called part-time housing to housing allowance, which was in use before the total renovation of housing allowance in 2015. This is not a new issue, but a part of the system a couple of years ago that will be returned. Part-time residence refers to a part of an independent dwelling that is rented. The maximum cost of living in part-time dwellings would also apply to dwellings of less than 20 square metres, as the building regulations provide that the minimum size of the dwelling is 20 square metres. However, we know that there are even smaller ones, especially in the capital region. The maximum cost of living in a part-time dwelling would be 80% of the current maximum cost of living. In addition to the maximum cost of living in part-time housing, the maximum cost of general housing allowance will be maintained during the year 18 at this year's level and in this way the decision to commit the maximum cost of living to the cost index was maintained, but only from 2019 onwards. This resulted in the savings that the government decided to make in order to curb the growth of housing subsidies in the mid-term debate. The aim of this proposal before us is therefore to curb the increase in housing allowance expenditure and, in particular, excessive rental requests for very small dwellings. This proposal will thus have a reduction in central government expenditure, but of course the worst effects will be on the beneficiaries. It is estimated that the standard for part-time residence will reduce the support level of 12,000 recipients of housing allowance by an average of EUR 30 per month. If you look at students in particular, the average impact of the maximum cost of living in part-time housing on the level of support for one-person student meals is between EUR 13 and 24 per month, depending on the municipality group. The biggest impacts would be on people living alone in Helsinki and other large cities at the level of housing allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, this subject has been the subject of a public debate which has been understandablely and, as expected, intensely debated. We have identified the strong lobbying that student organisations have specifically targeted in this regard. In connection with this, I would like to say in the context of this debate that the standard of part-time residence affects the level of housing allowance only when housing expenditure exceeds the maximum housing cost of that part-time dwelling, not always. The level of housing allowance does not change if the rent is less than the maximum housing cost proposed — I would venture to say that when the rent is about reasonable. The reduction in aid is always a loss for the beneficiary, and that is all I am trying to talk about here. However, it is good to remember that even after the introduction of the maximum housing cost of a part-time dwelling, the maximum amount of housing allowance paid to a part-time dwelling is now higher than the maximum housing allowance for students in the new system. It's just that sometimes we all have a very short memory of history. Mr President! Last but not least, I would like to say that it is important to monitor the impact of the changes on the income of the recipients of housing allowance, and this is what the government is committed to. It is also reasonable to assess the overall impact of decisions on different population groups. We have a clear overall need for housing support for major development work. In addition, it is always good to remember that, in order to ensure housing for low-income people in particular, the support system and housing policy should be considered and developed as a whole. In view of this too, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government has set up an entire project to prepare a road map for a comprehensive reform of basic security and activity. Housing allowance is part of that job. It explains the cost, employment, income distribution and other effects if support for housing is decoupled from income support and is carried out exclusively through housing subsidies. The preparatory work on the different options will be coordinated with the Juho Saare Working Group on Inequality. In addition, another theme that has spoken to students, the concept of household: In cooperation with the Social Insurance Institution, the Finnish Social Insurance Institution (STM) explains the concept of general housing allowance and its renewal in order to facilitate the housing of group homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u253	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Saarikko for an open and comprehensive introduction to this difficult whole. However, it is quite understandable that many students in particular are afraid because they have already been very much taken from them. So it is no longer even surprising that students are being cut again. Depending on the area of residence, this standard for part-time residence cuts the sum of the tenants of group and small dwellings to a different size. You see, students live more often than other recipients of housing allowance. Therefore, the effects of the standard for part-time residence are currently mainly on students. The standard of part-time residence would undermine the popularity of the most affordable forms of housing among students, which we certainly do not seek. Due to the interpretations of general housing allowance by households and cohabiting societies, cohabiting is a source of concern and difficult situations for students as well as unnecessary research work. I hope that the explanation of whether this outdated food interpretation could be revised and made more modern, mentioned by the Minister, will proceed as quickly as possible. The decline in co-habitation threatens to drive students to live in more expensive studios and small doubles, which at the same time also increases the cost of living. This behavioural effect is also recognised in the government's proposal. There is no calculation to show that the savings desired in the motion actually come true. The bill also recognises that it is estimated that more than 40 per cent of the savings in housing allowance can turn into expenditure on income support. Income support is seen as one of the worst incentive traps. It should be a last resort social security, the purpose of income support is not to be a continuous complement to and replace primary benefits. Since lowering the level of housing allowance increases income support expenditure and dependency on income support, the proposal may, contrary to all objectives, weaken incentives to work in many cases. We must now look at this in a very critical way. Unlike other recipients of housing allowance, as a general rule, students are not entitled to income support because the student loan is considered to be the student’s income. Thus, students have to finance increased housing costs with student grants, student loans and earned income. The student's job is to study, but strangely, full-time studies are once again being made financially, if not completely impossible, then once again less attractive. On the other hand, the increase in the number of hours worked may extend the qualifications, even though the reduction in study time has also been on the government's agenda — contradictory activity, not to mention the fact that there is once again the courage to go and cut off students. Did you forget the big mega-surgeon of the student grant that only this autumn came into effect? When we talk about individual A's, they may be small money for us MPs, but students can talk about weekly food money. The housing support system should be reformed in a consistent and transparent manner. In my opinion, we are now on the move by inconsistent and wrong means. This government proposal itself identifies a number of problems that can result from the implementation of the proposal. I very much hope that these problems will also be addressed in the future. We should now take a break and perhaps leave this law to the future until solutions are found to the overall questions of housing. I think it is a complex equation that cannot be resolved in a moment. But I would hope that these will not be returned to the future, but that we will try to bring more prepared entities to the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u254	We will take Mr Räsänen and Mr Modig's speeches and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u255	Mr President! In this first speech, I would really be addressing two issues in this big picture, both of which relate to the standard and the return of the part-time residence. The Minister, in his opening speech earlier, went through this dossier, and Mr Parviainen, too, just now, was very clear on what this means. The real change here is that it is estimated that this standard and its return will reduce the support of some 12,000 people living in a group room, and the average amount of EUR 30 has been used. In view of this EUR 30, it certainly seems small money to many here, but if you think about it in the student's purse, if the price of a student lunch was EUR 3, then we will talk about 10 days' lunch money — 10 days' lunch money. This is quite specific about what is at stake, which means that the lunch money for 10 working days is two weeks at school, what this thirty would have eaten, so it is a reasonably large sum. Especially when this surgery is carried out again, after the mega-grade student allowance cuts, they have been tried to patch up with this change in housing allowance and then a new way has been invented to go to the student’s purse, many students understandably find this to be very unfair. But the wider question relates to this behavioural effect, which Mrs Parviainen has already gone through. If this is the reason why more students from the group room move to a larger one-room or a two-room apartment, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u258	Mr President! The Minister, in his presentation, spoke of the government's intention here to curb the rise in rents, especially for small dwellings. The government here seems to base its thinking on the assumption that changes in housing allowance are reflected in rents. There's no research evidence for this. It has been questioned by researchers from Kela as well as by researchers from the State Financial Research Centre. For example, in the 1990s there was a many-year pipeline, when housing allowance did not rise but rents rose. No statistics support this assumption. Now, in fact, there is a risk of rising prices for small dwellings. If living in a group room is no longer profitable and housing allowance is more available in one’s own studio or a small one-room apartment, it is assumed that some of these people will go to the studio and two-room market. It is precisely the housing stock that is under great pressure at the moment, where there is demand much more than there is supply, and if people are added to it who are looking for these apartments, it can actually lead to a situation that is exactly the opposite of what the government is hoping for, namely that the rents of these most sought-after dwellings will actually rise. How has the government considered this? Has this scenario been reviewed, what is the impact of this on other dwellings? This is a problem for all the growing urban areas, that the price of living is too high, but this is particularly large in Helsinki, and when we have half the inhabitants living alone, it is precisely those studios that are in huge need. I am also afraid, as Mr Räsänen said here, that this could actually lead to an increase in costs and could lead to it at its worst — because, in Helsinki, we already have a real problem with some people having to rely on income support to cover their housing costs — that this will, once again, involve more people on income support, which we all know is a very passive and difficult form of support, which is not intended to run daily life, but to help in the last place when there is a real need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u259	There is now an opportunity to ask for answers to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u260	Mr President! However, it felt good to hear the Minister discuss and deal with these challenges and problems. The impression is that he was well aware of the problems of this proposal. In that sense, of course, I feel a little confused because I do not really know how to resist a minister who actually sounds like he does not feel that the proposal is so good. But this is some sort of evidence that we have not found solutions to housing policy. It is, of course, a longer-term issue than just one government. It's a long-term matter. But it still seems rather unfair that it is at that time that we are looking for such possible solutions, which are aimed at students who are already having a hard time. In particular, students in Helsinki — or cities — are in a particularly difficult situation. Is this necessary now, Minister Saarikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u261	Mr President! Student organisations are quite understandably concerned and upset about this presentation, which further weakens the position of students. On top of the former income cuts of the students, this additional cut will also be added. The question arises when will the limit be met that the discipline of students will be stopped. This debate has raised some very serious and important questions about the fact that this reduces the attractiveness of group housing, puts people into income support, but then, on the other hand, increases the need for small housing and demand, which is still very high, especially here in the capital region. Are you sure all the impact assessments have been carefully carried out? However, Minister, can you consider that this proposal should be amended, improved or even withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u262	Mr President! It is good that new solutions are sought for housing allowance forms, but even this bill is only about treating the symptom and the disease itself is not touched a bit. It's not the government's fault. It's the handling of the existing circumstances. That's what this is all about. But look at this housing support system in this country, how absurd it has gone. After all, housing allowance was created to give people with low incomes access to better quality housing than they could afford at that time. Where'd this thing go? Now, in this city, too, a Swedish billionaire owns 9,000 homes and raises the government’s housing allowance through rents up to a maximum of 20 million each year. Is this country supposed to support some Swedish multimillionaire? Of course, someone may say that as a billionaire living in the Cayman Islands, he has to buy a new Ferrari every year, because it is falling apart in the course of the year; saltwater eats it. Should we finally start to think about what we really want about this regional development in this country? If we continue stubbornly this way,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u263	Mr President! It is truly a pity that the government has not made any real impact assessments on this presentation, which affects the livelihood of students and the livelihood of families with children, and which will also affect our housing construction and our social security. Rather, we should improve the priority benefits, while we now have people who are permanently relocating to income support. In particular, student families will suffer as a result of the fact that, even if there is an increase in guardianship, this increase in guardianship will not compensate for the resulting cuts. As a result, family students will also be forced to enter the labour market in addition to studying, which will then delay students’ graduation. I would now like to ask the Minister what overall impact assessments have been made on this,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u264	Mr President! There are, of course, some of the flaws that have emerged in this system and shared housing, and it is worth going through them very carefully in the committee that there are no excesses and, at least, no one is at risk from studying for this reason, because we have to invest in education. But this is also part of it, a small symptom of the fact that our entire housing policy and housing support policy are in need of a total renovation. Regional development in Finland is currently fiercely unequal. In the outlying region, in rural areas, housing is deserted, and in growth centers living with rising housing costs and students are at their high housing costs. I therefore ask the Minister whether this overall reform of the housing allowance system is progressing under this government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u265	Mr. Speaker! I would like to return to this interpretation of the household and common-law relationship which went hand in hand in the debate. Something I've been afraid of for a long time. In my opinion, it is invasive for students in their current form — that is, how these studies should be carried out. I welcomed the idea when the Minister said that there was going to be an intervention or at least a review, so I would ask you, Minister Saarikko: can you tell us when we can expect a report or a result from it, and when will we be able to discuss whether we can remedy this minor problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u266	Mr President! The idea that housing support expenditure should be reduced must be understood. But it must be understood that housing allowance expenditure has increased not only because rents have risen, but also because more and more people need housing allowance to survive. The only sustainable way to reduce housing support expenditure is to create affordable housing production. That is what the state and the government have the means to do: the development of a long model of interest subsidies, which the government has taken up and which it is doing — which is worthy of praise — the acceleration of construction with various investment grants, which unfortunately has seen bad cuts, and the carrot offered in the form of an MAL agreement, for which I would also like to thank the government. These are the only sustainable means of achieving a reduction in housing allowance expenditure, because it does not reduce the need for support by not giving it, but by reducing it by no longer being needed. And that is what Mr Hoskonen was talking about: the disease itself must be cured and not looked for different patches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u267	Mr President! In that opening speech, the Minister gave the impression that those who criticise this standard of part-time residence, for example, have a short memory. However, it may be appropriate to go over the fact that, as I recall, quite a few representatives of the government parties were in favour of transferring students to general housing support, precisely because it compensated for these huge student support cuts. It was not said at the time that, when this transfer is made, it will continue to be cut, that there will still be a visit to the student purses there. I will not even go into the short-term memory that has been shown in this Chamber, for example, with regard to this educational promise. Somehow this still seems to be that quite a few people have a short memory of the type of signs they had with them before the elections, and then about the measures that have been here since the elections, so that this short-term memory has probably been a problem on the sides and otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u268	And now, Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u269	Mr President! A few comments: First of all, I am trying to scale this issue of housing support. The net saving effect of this standard for part-time housing now under discussion is 2.4 million in the housing subsidy pool, which actually talks about more than one billion. This is a matter of principle and, yes, a matter of central government savings. However, the larger savings effects of this overall proposal come from this commitment to the cost-of-living index instead of the current rent index and then from the freezing of expenditure to the level of this year. And then a few more comments: Our original idea was that this should be done by restoring this square-leaving cutter before the 2015 housing allowance reform, because we thought it would work, but we saw that there would have been a risk of an even greater impact on small dwellings, which might have been directed towards a wider population but in many ways even more unpleasant overall solution. Congressman Biaudet asked me if I could consider canceling this. I can't. [Laughter] Mr Kiljunen's estimate that families with children are suffering here, I do not look down and I do not claim to know but I think that especially many families with children in Finland do not live as students or otherwise live in dwellings of less than 20 square metres. That may be the case, but I don't think a lot of people do, and that's a good thing. Representative Kankaanniemi asked about this housing allowance reform. The Government is integrating this into a larger picture, a comprehensive reform of basic security and activity, in which housing allowance is assessed as part of a wider social security system, including its link to income and other benefits. I think it makes sense, and I feel that there is certainly a consensus in this Chamber that the system should be seen as a whole. That will not be completed during this parliamentary term, but is something that I am sure all parties will take a position on during the next elections in 2019: how each party wishes to view that road map now prepared by the government on the basis of civil servants and experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u270	Now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u271	Mr President! The Minister gave a thorough presentation of the proposal aimed at curbing housing allowance expenditure, but it is clear that it is partly reflected in income support expenditure, i.e. in another incentive trap, and this is not better for man. Income support is like a shake that makes it difficult for a person to swim away. In addition, this presentation reduces the attractiveness of group housing. However, it is important that the Minister himself said that the concept of household is a challenge today and that it will be clarified. I hope that these reports will lead to improvements and I personally hope that they will be carried out very quickly. However, this change increases the demand for small dwellings, which are already in short supply in the capital region. This change is difficult to accept because of the excessive discipline of students. Students do not have the opportunity to switch to income support, so the change is particularly difficult for them. After all, the students have already had a lot of surgery. Overall, the government's training cuts are large. You will cut a billion euros per year from education. You have cut about a quarter of the student financial aid, the basic income of the students, and transferred the student financial aid to a more loan-oriented level. Of course, thanks can be given for the fact that you have introduced a care-sharing increase in student allowance. It is really important to hand out to parents who are studying to better combine studies and parenthood. But the fact is that even after all the cuts you have made, the income left in the hands of the families who are studying after that increase will be lower.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u272	Mr President! A few more comments. First of all, I would like to say that we have some 30,000 student families whose income has been reduced as a result of various cuts, such as study aid and then this housing allowance, and also, on the basis of the studies, the guardian raise has not been able to compensate for all the income of the student families, but I will not go into that now. It is sad that the government is again making cuts to housing support. The government is relocating people to income support, where the aim should rather be to strengthen primary benefits and reduce people's dependency on income support. The government has weakened the financial position of students in many ways during its term. A positive reform of the transfer of students to the general housing allowance also led to an excessive deterioration in the income of some students. Support for housing for low-income and low-income students living alone for rent improved in the reform, so students should take a studio apartment or a small one-bedroom apartment, because their housing allowance is higher than those living in these cells of less than 20 square metres. Students also have to finance increased housing costs with student grants, student loans and earned income because of this entity. As a result, the number of students in employment will increase and thus the number of qualifications will increase. As the Minister has just said, according to the Government's proposal, this 20-square housing standard, the partial housing standard, affects approximately 12,000 beneficiaries of the current housing allowance. A significant proportion of them are students who, according to the survey, live more often than other population groups in group and cell dwellings or in dwellings of less than 20 square metres provided by communities producing student dwellings. In this way, students are particularly affected by the operation. The fact that student housing companies are turning cell dwellings into small units has now also been clearly seen, because they have noticed the students' desire to move out of these cell bundles, and as a result this will also have an impact on the housing construction of these student housing foundations and companies, and also on the reduction of the currently very affordable and efficient cell bundles. This will also distort effective housing construction, and I have also referred to this with the overall impact that the Minister has just had. That is why we all agree that the increase in housing costs should be curbed, but it is wrong to pursue it by reducing the daily income of the beneficiaries. A more socially sustainable solution is a good level of priority benefits and support for affordable housing construction and the promotion of housing construction in general, as has already been mentioned here in several speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u273	Mr President! In my opinion, the law on changing the general housing allowance is an example of where this Finnish concentration policy takes us at its worst. After all, housing aid in this country is about EUR 2.5 billion, and it is necessary to calculate part of the income support that people are applying for when the economic situation, precisely because of the ridiculously expensive housing, has led to the need to apply for income support: it is estimated that some 600 million, or 0.6 billion, of the income support goes here to cover housing costs. In other words, we are talking about the cost of over EUR 3 billion. By adding the central government budget to it, unemployment expenditure of around EUR 5 billion from last year — 5.1 billion went into unemployment expenditure in 2016 — we are EUR 8 billion. If anyone in this Chamber is still asking what the state finances are doing badly, then it is not difficult to explain. There's an 8 billion hole in here. It's no bigger than that. As far as this housing allowance is concerned, it is an important issue for those for whom it is a necessity, it must not be underestimated, but we cannot continue on this path, ladies and gentlemen, at all. If someone imagines and barks at the government that the housing allowance is too low and bad, does anyone imagine that Erik Selin, a Swedish billionaire who owns the 4,000 apartments... I'm sorry for the wrong number I just said, I've misremembered it, I've corrected it, I've just checked, it's 4,000, it's 4,000. [SilviaModigin intermediate call] - I'm sorry for my mistake, but I just checked it out of the source, it's 4,000. I don't think it's a good idea for Mr. Kiljunen to feel bad about this, like...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u274	And at this point, I would ask the representatives to note that the sitting will be adjourned at 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u275	Mr President! It is perfectly understandable that the government has the objective of curbing the increase in housing allowance expenditure. That is a perfectly understandable objective. The question now is whether the measures that have now been chosen will achieve that objective. And, as the Minister said, in fact, this overall package talks about saving tens of millions of euros, when this standard for part-time housing is the good 2 million for next year, and when it comes to this principle that savings should be made. That is why it is now necessary to take this EUR 2 million from the students — which, on average, is the EUR 30, that is, about two weeks' lunch money, for these group residents or for those living in small studios. This raises the question — if I remember correctly, the Minister’s own ministry estimates that, in fact, the savings from the standard of this part-time residence are on a rather uncertain basis — whether this will at least provide the savings of a couple of million dollars that this is seeking. That is why the question arises that, if we have to make savings at this stage when these other measures will probably be available there — because it will then affect people's housing allowance, people's housing allowance will fall, some increase in income support expenditure, but some savings will be made by the state — then would it not have been quite reasonable to leave at least this standard of part-time housing alone and therefore favour those low-income students from whom this government has already taken quite a lot, for example, in the form of a cut in student allowance? In other words, the tens of millions of euros as a whole would now have been a small hand extension to give students a hand in the removal of the standard for this part-time residence in this case. And it would be wise to have a thorough look at this matter here in the committees, and I would like the representatives of the government parties here to use that famous reflection and give some thought to this whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u276	Mr President! I think very much like Mr Räsänen here. It is precisely this standard of part-time housing that could be abandoned here without the government having to give up major savings targets or anything else, because, as we have seen in this debate, it can in fact lead to an increase in costs. Here, too, I wish the members of the government parties the courage to see whether this could be the case. For Mr Hoskose, I have to say that the growth of the capital region and the capital is almost a natural law. Of course, people are seeking study, work, love for the capital, but then the decisions of this government have also increased the migration here because the conditions for life elsewhere in Finland have been weakened due, for example, to cuts in education and other things. But the only way to solve this problem is to get the market price of living down. It means more production, and it means all the means the state has. It is quite true, as Mr Hoskonen said, that part of the housing allowance expenditure goes into the pockets of those who are asking for quite unreasonable rents. But the solution is not to punish the most vulnerable, that is to say the students most affected. At least in Helsinki we have an estimate that about one-fifth of students' households can be found in group homes, so just removing this group living standard or standard for part-time living would reduce the impact of this on students. It would not seriously jeopardise the objectives of the government and would make human and economic sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u277	And Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u278	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to make it clear in the debate that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health itself does not believe in these savings in its own estimates. As if the second claim was that no impact assessments had been carried out. To this second point, it was, in fact, just after the consultation, that the impact assessments on students were further specified. As far as these estimated savings are concerned, this sum, less than 3 million of which I am talking about, is the net savings. We have openly admitted that, as in other savings decisions on social security, both in this and in the last parliamentary term and always before the current system has existed, some of the expected savings have fallen into income support — a fundamental human right, to get help from that so-called last-minute door — and it is estimated that certain groups of students will make use of this opportunity. Perhaps, however, I would like to emphasise that we are living in a very new age with regard to student housing allowance. The general housing allowance has not been in force for long, and the related behavioural effects and also the income effects of students cannot yet be fully predicted. I fully agree with Mr Modig's assessment that this whole of housing in the capital region and elsewhere is a larger entity, and I appreciate your recognition of the government's commitment to building and supporting additional housing elsewhere. Much of this must also rely on city decision-makers to be willing to resolve the issue by building affordable housing. As far as the housing of students in part-time housing is concerned, i.e. in practice in larger accommodations with more than one student, these are the ones that will inevitably be most affected. Not all of them are now savings, but only those whose cost of living exceeds that maximum cost of living. So, in them,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u279	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister, as a further clarification, about the impact assessment of these consequences: In other words, as a result of this standard for part-time housing, students are looking for more expensive studios or small doubles, it is likely that this will result in higher housing support costs. Has it now taken full account of the fact that as a result of this surgery, the behaviour of students will change, which will also affect the increase in housing allowance expenditure? What is the real net savings that will be gained from this, and what will be the result of this change in behavior in the longer term? For example, in South Karelia in Lappeenranta it is quite clearly planned that all the group apartments that are currently in the renovation will be converted into singles, resulting in a change in the current effective use of group housing, if you would say so, because students no longer want to live in these groups as a result of this change in housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u280	Mr President! I promise you this will be my last speech. — I have to say to the Minister that you said that this savings will only come from those with a rent exceeding its maximum cost of living, i.e. most of it. In Helsinki, we do not find a person with a housing allowance that fully covers the rent. Minister Orpo replied to me in Question Time in the spring that if we cover the rent 100%, it is now clear that the rents will rise. There were quite a few mistakes and a lot of misunderstandings about how the housing allowance is actually made up, but no one in principle covers 100 per cent of the rent, and it must be borne in mind because it seems that the assumption that all small changes in housing allowance are immediately visible in the rents seems to be based on the wrong starting points. I myself am concerned that this will have a bigger impact when we think that this is now the most important thing for students. They have just entered the general housing allowance, and it is true, as the Minister said, that we do not yet know everything about how it will be visible and effective. And now we are cutting the housing allowance from the very dwellings where the students live. At worst, of course, if the student needs more money, he goes to work, he studies less and he does more work and his graduation is extended. So I would now like to see courage from the representatives of the government parties to consider whether a change could be made in committee on this part-time housing standard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u281	Mr President! A few more comments have not been made. In fact, we cannot overemphasize where these effects are really greatest. When you think about Helsinki, for example, the situation that Mr Modig went through with great merit, it is just like this that here it stings most of all to these students. Then, of course, this will also play a role in this housing production. Representative Kiljunen well described the development that is already going on in student housing, that old cell apartments are now being converted into singles. Then we also have a huge number of earlier studios, which are therefore less than this 20 square meters, which this cutter now applies to. What, then, does this company that owns student housing, often in student housing foundations, come forward? It will be a question of how these studios can be used to what they are intended for, that is, where the student would live, even if this reform makes it less economical than it was in the past. In a way, reflecting on this whole, indeed, bearing in mind that we are now talking about the savings of a few million euros, it would have been worth considering that this would not have been done. It would not seriously jeopardise these government savings targets, which will take place with these other measures, which are also being discussed here, but this abolition of the standard for part-time residence in this proposal would have been a Christmas gift that Parliament could have given to students for the very reason that we should be investing in studying in this country. It is the lifeblood of this 100-year-old patriot and future that we have a high level of expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u282	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u283	Mr President! I take seriously the criticisms expressed both by the consultation and now by this debate on the motion, and I am absolutely sure — and I believe that the Committee on the Environment is already starting to hear this proposal — that the critical feedback will certainly be taken into account. Of course, the Christmas gift from now on would also be, Mr Räsänen, every year, because this is not just a decision for next year but rather a structural part of the system, which in itself is difficult to compare with anything that has been before, when the students in the general housing allowance have only been for a very short time and this, as it were, has only been part of the system for a couple of years since the impact of the maximum housing expenditure on part-time dwellings, which means that we are talking about rather short-term changes. I myself think that who would be affected by this Christmas gift if this proposal were to be amended. In practice, this effect is strongest for landlords, but I understand very well what you mean by the overall income of students, and I do not want to belittle it. However, I would point out that this speculative observation that students would move to studios as if this would lead to a stronger transition is difficult to verify, firstly because, in the case of studios, ownership would be higher and higher, so that living in studios would not necessarily be cheaper. In fact, we all know that in student housing, regardless of the support solutions, the direction has been strongly from cellular housing to studios and many traditional cell dwellings, built a few decades ago, have already been converted into singles for students, regardless of the support system, perhaps more according to students' preferences. I would also like to point out, as far as these apartments are concerned, that this will not bring about a change if the studio is more than 20 square feet, i.e. when we talk about the very small dwellings affected by this maximum cost of living.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u284	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u285	Mr President! As the evening of the sitting is coming to the end, I will just say briefly from my motion that it should be about amending the Social Welfare Act so that a new article is added to the law as a whole. It concerns the distribution of the costs of essential social services between the state and municipalities for persons who have received negative asylum decisions. This is not a new task for the municipalities, but a compensation for the task they carry out. The background to this is the Government's plan of measures to prevent and manage illegal residence in the country, which was concluded last December. At that time, it was argued that the State should reimburse municipalities for the cost of urgent social services, when the necessary social services were provided to a person who has already received a valid negative asylum decision and is no longer in the host service. I would like to reiterate that compensation for these urgent social care costs is not a question of new tasks, nor of new services for illegal residents, but only of sharing costs between the state and the municipalities. In practice, this is comparable to the cost of emergency medical care for the corresponding population.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u286	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the Minister's evening either, but there is so little opportunity to discuss this. This relates to the situation of undocumented children and undocumented families, women and men. At the moment, we have a new situation in Finland when there are more than 50 children whose reception services have been discontinued and suspended and are in a very difficult situation, because we do not have such clear legislation that specifically obliges municipalities to provide these children with services equivalent to those of Finnish children — although the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should oblige them to do so. Is there something to be expected now, Minister Saarikko, also so that the municipalities really understand that they should also provide services other than these, what is at stake in this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u287	Minister Saarikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u288	Mr President! This answer won't last that long. With Mr Biaudet, we share the same concern, and for children, the municipal guidelines have now been given to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-08-ps-114.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
