ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that the President of the Albanian Parliament, Ilir Meta and his party have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. Let us move on to the debate and first Minister Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u3	Madam President! Improving the use of emergency services resources and improving the availability and quality of services require the reorganisation of the rescue service and its guidance system. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u6	Madam President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for his excellent presentation. After all, rescue is an important part of internal security. Sometimes it seems that the rescue operation is undervalued in view of its importance. When various civil polls are conducted, firefighters and rescue workers are highly valued: it is placed at the same level as policemen and other professionals. This reflects the public’s confidence in our rescue service, appreciation of it and willingness to support its development. The reform now being carried out is part of the regional-war reform, as the Minister has said here. However, I would like to say that the mere reduction in the number of rescue services from 22 to 18 does not make this a genuine reform, which would then only apply to the North and the Uusimaa countries, but rather the content. I know that there are a lot of working groups in the Ministry of the Interior to consider how the rescue operation will be developed. That's good. The earlier rescue sector reform was indeed significant, when the municipal rescue services were transferred to regional activities and these 22 rescue services were set up. I believe that this system has worked very well. Now that the regions are preparing to implement this regional government, I would like to draw attention to the fact that last year, when the whole budget of the provinces, the combined budget, amounted to some EUR 17.8 billion and EUR 17.3 billion in social security expenditure, the rescue service accounted for 413 million. I hope, however, that these study groups will be given a sufficiently strong role in the organisation and implementation of this rescue service, because it is indeed an important whole for internal security. The Government Programme agreed to strengthen the national coordination, management, and otherwise the extension of good practices throughout the country. We all know this need for adaptation, which exists in all areas of government, including in the area of rescue. This is why it is important for these national development projects to succeed, whether they concern ic, support services, procurement, management systems or training systems and alert systems. This is because there is no need for adaptation measures in the provinces to weaken operational activities and, in particular, to reduce the resources and opportunities of the fire brigade. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, now that this financing model is being prepared, the rescue service cannot be the only determining factor. This would then mean that our sparsely populated and geographically remote regions would find themselves in a considerable position of inequality. Mr President! Then a few words about the importance of the fire brigade. We have 709 contract fire brigades in Finland with 13400 emergency fire brigades. Similarly, we have 4,000 professionals. Last year there were 103754 emergency services alerts, departures, of which 22,653 first response missions. The contract firefighters took part in some 75,000 alerts, i.e. more than 60% of these alarms. If you think about Finland's surface area, as much as 90 per cent of Finland's area is the main responsibility of the fire brigades and 46 per cent of Finns live in these municipalities. With this in mind, I would like to stress that, when the Minister is also present, it is important that this entry in the Government Programme on the development of fire brigades leads to practical action and results, so that we can maintain viable fire brigades throughout the country, attract new people and maintain a high level of motivation and good cooperation with rescue services as well. I think that is very good in some places, and we have all drawn attention to the fact that, without this fire brigade activity, we will not be able to secure sufficient security throughout Finland, especially in sparsely populated areas. With these proposals, Mr President, I wanted to open this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u7	Madam President! Last week we were discussing a thousand pages of social welfare reform, which was also linked to the creation of this provincial government, and this government proposal, which is, in a way, linked to this same package, concerns the order of the rescue services, which will also be organised under the administration of these 18 provinces. In short, Madam President, I think that this is an appropriate arrangement, given that this 18-provinces model is being implemented. The aim is also to strengthen state guidance in the rescue services. That has been a bit of a problem when the rescue service has been, as it were, municipal management and in the hands of municipalities, and the methods of steering and influence from the ministry have sometimes seemed a little weak. This is now significantly strengthened, at least on behalf of the staff, by the Ministry of the Interior, when administrative staff are transferred to the Rescue Department of the Ministry of the Interior for this mission. But it is still a little unclear to me when I read this presentation whether this state control is sufficiently strengthened, so that we can ensure that all over Finland the operation of rescue services is uniform and that it can also be properly controlled. The aim here is also to maintain the current level of services close to the rescue service, at least at the current level. This is a very good objective for every citizen. Think of the fires or the need for an ambulance, the need for emergency care, but the rescue services do manage the most critical needs of people, and indeed this, if that is what needs to be maintained as a nearby service. I understand that the fire station network will also be kept as it is today. Perhaps the Minister could confirm that there is neither cutting nor thinning it, and I think that is also a good and appropriate thing. In practice, this will lead to only 18 if we now have 22 rescue services. This means that in Uusimaa, Helsinki, Central Uusimaa, Eastern Uusimaa and Western Uusimaa will be merged into a single rescue facility, in Northern Ostrobothnia Oulu-Koillismaa and River Valleys will be merged and then the North Ostrobothnia Rescue Department will be merged with Pietarsaari, Luoto and Kruunupyy from Central Ostrobothnia. These changes are, of course, significant in terms of regions and staff, but with relatively small economic impact. I remember that when different models and alternatives were considered during the last parliamentary term — and this model of five rescue areas, for example, has been on the table — the costs of harmonising wages have been such a difficult issue, they would entail significant additional costs. According to this proposal, the cost of harmonising wages is EUR 2.3 million, i.e. an increase in the wage money needed to keep up with this reform and it is quite manageable. Well, what is central to this solution is, of course, that it is important that the administrative boundaries of rescue operations follow the limits of the organisation of social welfare and health care, because 70 to 80 per cent of the volume of rescue services is directed at emergency services, which is essentially this emergency care. That is why it is important that it is really under its same administration, and this proposal and solution will safeguard these synergies between the social and health services and the rescue services. After all, the rescue services system was last reformed in 2004 — many of us who have done so in Parliament remember it. Until then, each municipality had its own rescue service. That was a huge reform. It meant moving from more than 400 municipal rescue services to 22 regional rescue services. After all, three detailed follow-up studies were carried out on this, and these led to a successful reform and, for example, the cost development of rescue services has been more moderate than other municipal sectors and the service level has even improved in some areas, measured by different indicators. Indeed, the work done by the rescue services is extremely important from the citizens' point of view. Without a well-equipped, well-equipped rescue operation, the basic functions of society cannot be safeguarded. And just as Mrs Rantakangas said here, Finns rely on it as researched: in several studies, firefighters rise to the top position, which means they are trusted. Of course, it reflects the fact that the rescue service is responsible for people's lives and health, as well as, of course, for the safety of the environment and property. Mr Rantakangas has made an excellent point here, and I do not think that it can be ignored here either, because in the area of our country's surface area around 90%, the fire brigades are responsible for rescue tasks, i.e. we have about 15,500 fire brigades in our country, and without this, it would be quite impossible to manage the rescue operation. A particular challenge for the future is how we can get young and alert members in contract fire brigades. The ageing of the population, migration, the tightening demands of working life have raised the threshold for volunteering, and yet securing the operation of contract fire brigades is essential for the operation of emergency services' emergency services' emergency services' emergency services. For economic reasons, it would be virtually impossible to achieve a comparable level of preparedness, especially in sparsely populated areas, by employing only professional staff, so this system must be invested in anyway. I would also like to hear comments from the Minister that, once the firemen of the Treaty have expressed different hopes as to how their ability to act and their attractiveness to do so could be improved, do there exist any plans for these in the Ministry? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u8	Mr President! The rescue services are being reformed and, of course, it is worth considering the fact that they are functioning and uniform throughout the country as well as they can be. We have skilled staff and free fire brigades. Of course, there is concern that, in the case of medical transport in certain areas, the journeys are really long when it comes to urgent transport. Then rescue helicopters in hospital districts play an important role. They belong to the STM. But you, Minister, are responsible for these Super Pums, which are machines that operate at bad weather in the area of sea rescue. And at least one concern has been the operation of Super Pumi in the Turku Archipelago Region. You have promised to see if it can be continued there. However, a flight from Helsinki would mean about 45 to 50 minutes more during the journey, and that would be fatal in many cases of an accident. What progress has been made in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u9	I now opened up the reservation for replying when it appeared that there were more requests. So let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u10	Mr President! It is good that the rescue operation is being reformed. Referring to previous speeches: rescue operations, emergency care, is actually such a network, which involves pieces from a number of different bodies, and it forms such a safety net, which then has its working cooperation — including these helicopters and, for example, sea rescue. I would also like to point out that the fire brigade mentioned in the agreement is indeed 90 % of the land area in rescue operations, but then 90 % of the area is again under professionals, so this is such an association that they cannot really be separated from each other, and they must continue to work together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u11	Madam President! It is good that this regional model should come to this, because many experts have said that if you go into the regional model otherwise, then these rescue services would be the same. A little disproportionate, because criticism has come particularly from Uusimaa, that this model of 1.6 million inhabitants is not exactly the same as that of 67,000 inhabitants. That's probably what we're gonna have to discuss. I have a question here when the staff and equipment are transferred from the municipality to the province free of charge and the real estate is rented, as in the case of a mess: is it the same 3+1 model for these buildings and in any case the debts remain with the municipality? And strangely, I read just now that a request for a statement came to the legislative package that came last week, which is already being supplemented — today it came to be said. This process of regional reform will come in rather strange stages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u12	Mr President! I am extremely pleased that this 18 rescue areas model has now been drawn up. This will ensure close cooperation with social and health care. However, I personally understand that the best expertise in providing services here too is in the region itself and in the provinces. That is why I am concerned — perhaps unlike Mr Räsä, who wondered whether the Ministry’s steering powers are now sufficiently strengthened in the organisation of the rescue services — in fact, whether the ministry has too much control in this overall organisation of the rescue services. I personally would not like to see a model now that only an executive role is left for the provinces in the organisation of the rescue service. The question to the Minister: what principle is now being used to finance this rescue service for the provinces? The reason for the question is whether this is sufficient for sparsely populated areas
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u13	Mr President! Like Mr Heinonen, I would have asked about the fate of Super Pumi and their possibilities for action at night, in bad weather. We know that a quick start can be a matter of life and death, and 40 minutes like this extra travel time can therefore be fatal for a patient or a person in distress. I'm interested in this question. The second question relates to these administrative reforms in general. Of course, they are always quite a challenge, but they are also quite a challenge for bilingualism in the country. So there is also the question of the operation of emergency centres, and I would have asked: what is the intention of this reform to ensure that emergency centres always have 24-hour emergency services, which are also able to cope with both the national languages of our country?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u14	A couple of comments to Mr Jalos: firstly, this 46 %, which I mentioned, is the figure used, and there will certainly also be professional firefighters there, but 90 % is not the figure. Mr Paatero then: if this had also been brought in the same package, the debate on this would have been much smaller. It is good that we prepare carefully and bring it to the debate as soon as possible, and in this respect we will have a good debate on this rescue measure. To a good friend, Mrs Korhonen, when we agreed on this national guidance and coordination during the government negotiations, it started from the point of view that now that a certain amount of money comes into the region, these national development projects are important that it does not happen that the various economies of scale are in a way forced to build their own systems — whether it is an information system or training or procurement or other. My view is that national direction serves this entity
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u15	Mr President! As far as this reform is concerned, the big key issue really relates to this situation in Uusimaa, which has also come under a lot of criticism in this area — that is to say, these four regional rescue services are now being merged into a single rescue service, which is actually 23 times greater than the smallest rescue service in Central Ostrobothnia, and this is obviously already a challenge of some kind on this scale. In fact, I would have asked: how does the Minister now respond to the criticism of what has become in this area, also in view of the fact that last week the Supreme Administrative Court decided where the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa had the right to purchase services directly from the current regional rescue agency, so that this organisation and production in this respect would not have to be placed in the same organisation? I would be interested to hear what the Minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u16	Madam President! When this package of social welfare mammoths was here in Parliament, the opposition, almost as one choir, criticised freedom of choice in the social reform, but the next sentence criticised the fact that the peripheral regions do not have the same freedom of choice as the capital region, for example. I said then that this has always been the case, that is the case and that will always be the case: remote regions do not have all the same opportunities, at least not as close as they are to cities. That debate on the opposition at the time was, in my opinion, such a deterrent propaganda, and I think it is very clear from the fact that, while we are everywhere trying to secure as fast access as possible to treatment, everyone is taking it for granted that remote villages and remote areas do not have the same situation in this access to treatment or rescue services as, for example, urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u17	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that we have come up with this 18-region model. However, it is a natural community, already in place, where local knowledge is the strongest of all, and also through that initial response there is already a connection to the social area. This internal security is also very much a co-operation between the authorities, and there must be seamless contact and co-operation with the central alert areas. I would like to ask the Minister: has this future model taken sufficient account of this issue so that the regions speak the same language and that local knowledge is consistent?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u18	Mr President! Indeed, it is well-founded that this cooperation with the provinces is in order at the rescue service, because it is actually the treatment process from there to there from the rescue services to the social welfare and health services. But at the same time it must be remembered that cooperation must also play in the other direction, i.e. in the municipalities. We have already had problems in this regard. That is why I am very concerned about this situation in Uusimaa: if we have not always been able to cooperate flexibly with the municipalities, what will happen in the future? I woke up a few years ago when three thunder cells were approaching the Helsinki region and which on the radio told me that there was going to be a thunderstorm, now there is a thunderstorm, must avoid moving outside — this did not go to schools, not to day-care centres. The kids went out on forest trips, sports class took off when the storm hit. I have tried to find out why the rescue services were unable to communicate this message to the schools, and no one has yet been able to explain to me how it should have been handled. I hope these new arrangements will guarantee that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u19	Madam Speaker! Two questions and one thank you: Even though Mr Rantakangas, my fellow party colleague, opened up this background to the guidance system, I also had the same idea as Mr Korhonen that it would now become too strict. I would like to ask the Minister: is this the steering power that comes to the Ministry of the Interior really the direction and not this kind of dictation and leadership from Helsinki? In addition, in this debate it is necessary to point out once again that most of Finland's security is provided by fire brigades, side-action firefighters and free fire brigades. It is also a very cost-effective system for our public finances, and we just have to stick to it. I look forward to hearing from the Minister how this will be done during this new law. But thank you again to the Minister and the Government for this change in regionalisation. The county base is also natural for rescue services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u20	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the Minister on behalf of my own province, North Karelia, for continuing to develop and implement the rescue action on the basis of 18 provinces. It really makes sense for rescue services, emergency services and social services to form a coherent whole, as they are already there at the moment. When you're in a mess, they do. This model is the best way to implement the emergency care and rescue services of a sparsely populated province and, at the same time, seamless cooperation with other actors, such as the Border Guard, as this seamless cooperation is essential for these good and high-quality services, for example, in the long-distance border region of North Karelia. Indeed, the regions and regions are very different, and I very much hope that development will continue to take place in the provinces from the specific features of its own region, i.e. that it is not too strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u21	Madam President! As early as 1865, municipal meetings were ordered to take care of schools, care for the poor, the destruction of predators and fire operations. These are good examples of what I think should be done on the ground today. It is quite true what Mr Zyskowicz said: no one living in a remote region thinks that we have the same services as in Helsinki. But it is important that the first response is able to take care of the whole country within a reasonable time. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u22	Madam President! Let me be more specific about what I wanted to say. In my opinion, it is quite clear that in Finland we are trying to ensure that care is provided as quickly as possible throughout the country and in remote areas, where necessary. But just as the previous speaker said, we take it for granted that it cannot be the same, as fast, access to a hospital as, for example, in a city centre. I just wanted to point out that, now that the social reform is being carried out, the fact that the peripheral region does not have the same choice as, for example, in one of the cities, was intended to raise a major problem on the part of the opposition — although at the same time they have said that freedom of choice in itself is wrong. If we are on this path, that is to say, as in the case of an ideal situation, that everyone has exactly the same opportunity, then this reform should be questioned on the same basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u23	Madam President! Here, representatives of Korhonen and Kurvinen feared that the state direction in this law would perhaps become too strong, but I find it difficult to see in what way this legislation would pose any threat to regional and regional responsibility and decision-making. It must be borne in mind that state control is precisely in the interests of service users, i.e. those who need rescue services. After all, the level of rescue services will continue to be decided by the province. But if the Ministry of the Interior estimates that this decision is incomplete, then the Ministry of the Interior may order it to be supplemented and a deadline will be given to remedy these deficiencies. It is now, for example, a good time, from the point of view of action, so that if, for example, the operating times start to decline, then it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u24	Mr President! According to this proposal, the emergency services in Ostrobothnia will be connected from Central Ostrobothnia to the Swedish-speaking Pietarsaari, Luoto and Kruunupyy in accordance with the regional division. On the other hand, bilingual Kokkola will be left out of this. In this case, it has to be noted that this whole region is from Kristiinankaupunki to the Kokkola border, that is, the whole of us across the sea, and there is not a single full-service hospital in that area. There won't be a full-service emergency hospital. Where are they taking these people? Where are these people taken care of? There's more than a hundred miles between us. It is 100 km from Vaasa to Kristiinankaupunki, 140 to the Kokkola border — 240 km. I suppose, for example, if we want to guarantee and keep an initial response here, we must have the capacity in that area to provide and provide a first response when there is a need for that help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u25	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank you for giving up this model of 5 regions and for coming up with this rural model of 18 rescue areas, which is in fact very close to the division that is already taking place, mainly now with the exception of Uusimaa. The bill shows that the Ministry of the Interior will have strong control over the provision of these services. It is essential to draw attention to what has already been seen in the consultation: the population model alone is not suitable for funding the rescue service, as it may lead to a decline in services in sparsely populated areas. And knowing that the Regional Finance Act provides for the funding of the rescue services, and yet it seems that savings are also being sought here, and information systems, for example, will cost around EUR 23 million, it is important that all these be taken into account in the financing of the provinces, so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u26	Värderade Talman! Om ni tillåter så utvidgar jag diskussionen lite från räddningsväsendet till att omfatta hur man når den hjälp som behövs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u27	Madam President! This starting point for 18 provinces is also quite right and good, and I thank the Minister for that. However, my question relates to the activities of the Coast Guard. It is quite clear that when savings come also to the rescue services and also to the coastguard, there will certainly have to be rationalisation, but there is now concern, in particular, about border control and the operation of the northern coastguards: we are moving the unit completely away from the border, further away from the border. As was noted, for example, in the debate on asylum seekers in autumn 2015, it is important that border controls at the border could also be available physically if necessary. There is a risk if the Western Finnish Coast Guard now makes these concentration decisions to Oulu and Rovaniemi that this Kemin-Tornio region would be completely free of the coastguard activity and was then on the basis of voluntary seaguards. In the Arctic, I do not believe that this is sufficient. How's this going?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u28	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz has already left, but he was anxious to talk about freedom of choice today, so unfortunately it is not possible to do so now, but it is difficult to see even the majority's business opportunities in this subject, namely on-call operations and emergency care. As we have seen, rescue services and the social and health sector are not an easy combination. We have had a lot of friction there in Päijät-Häme in recent years, and we have been operating as a very independent business for the past ten years under the direct authority of the Board of Directors and the Regional Council. Now the question is: What will be the future? How will the opportunity to influence the development and financing of activities be ensured and how will this entity be managed? Is there any knowledge and knowledge in the future about how the administrative sector of the Rescue Department actually works? On these questions, Minister, I would like to ask you for a point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u29	Before the Minister, Mr. Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u30	Mr President! In fact, from that talk by Skinner, it can be continued that when there has been pressure to save also from rescue activities, and that is what they have been made for, from 5 regions to 18, which does not make it possible to lighten the administration as much as it could have been in the 5 model, where are these savings to be recovered now? Not from the operational crew, is it? Or is there another inevitable statement that these savings should be forgotten at this point?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u31	Minister Risikko, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u32	Madam President! Thank you all for these very good questions and comments, and thank you for the fact that this has now been postponed... At first there was the idea of 5, but then there was 18, and I personally consider it important that cooperation and synergy with social and health care, and especially with emergency care, be maintained. In fact, it was an important aspect of what was wanted to be maintained, and it was an impressive factor, because it is also important in this cost development. Here Mr Jalonen asked about this cost development, so now that this was transferred to the 18, we must of course consider how to curb cost developments. This is not the intention to come to austerity measures, but to curb cost development, as is the case with war, and it is, of course, done through cooperation, synergy, the process is being refined, managed correctly, and that is also why we need this state control. There was a bit of concern here about how this funding would be enough, and so on. When you go to the provincial government, it must be a common tragedy for all of these that how much money is enough. At the moment, the Administrative Committee is dealing with a financing law which is already here as a government proposal. It's got a lot of social security and rescue together, and it's already here in the house. Then there was the concern, too, that how this government was directed. Well, I'm sure this is a game of vice, as you say in our own country, so it's always feared that if that country now is a terrible rupee when it's a province of self-government. However, if we are going to have equal services, then there must be that central government control, and if we are going to curb this cost development, then there must be this central government control — just as there is now more central government control in the war. That is a good thing, and because it is precisely these problems that we will be able to overcome more easily. And it won't be too tight. I'm sure of it. It is precisely this that is based on agreements, and the Government is always there at the end of the game, and it represents the whole country. There has also been concern about this situation in Uusimaa, when it becomes so great. The City of Helsinki has also reclared on this issue, and yes, I say quite frankly that I think this is a bit like a post-empty one. Helsinki and this metropolitan area were offered the opportunity to make their own social work, and it didn't work out. If the war had been different here in the metropolitan area, then this rescue would have been different. But now that it did not come, if we want this synergy to be maintained, that is why we will now go to this rescue area and rescue facility in Uusimaa. Of course, it has also become very good feedback, but of course there is also concern when it is so great. But as I said earlier in my speech, we are able to assign such common national tasks to the Uusimaa region, among other things, now that there is a different volume here. I believe that we will have a very good debate and good action. A distinguished speech was made about the firearms. Thank you for that. We need fire brigades, they are an essential condition for us to continue to have a good rescue service and it will remain a local service and this cooperation will play. We have a joint project with SPEK, which specifically considers training and also involving young people in fire brigade activities in the future. In this context, I would very much like to recommend the activities of the young people in the fire department. I myself am a former fire brigade youth and I consider it a good civic hobby, and it is also quite affordable when we talk about the advantages of hobbies. Then, if I may say a few more words, bilingualism was a matter of concern, and it is a fundamental right of course. Then how did the emergency centers find out that: Vaasa has particular problems with access to the Swedish-speaking service and bilingual emergency services. That is why we are now going to train and assess if there is any way in Vaasa to organise emergency services training, but also with a view to the need for bilinguals throughout Finland, because the situation is that in the future, when that call connects to any emergency centre, it must be possible to speak both Finnish and Swedish. The bigger problem, however, is that of the spatial information system, which is really complex. So even though the names of the streets are constantly changing, we should have up-to-date information about their location, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you and your relatives and loved ones and everyone else to have 112 applications on that cell phone, because it will at least make it easier for you to find them if you need help. That is one example of this. Can I just say a few words about this Super Puma when we asked about this? — All in all, there will be new arrangements on the ict side, and when we get them in order, the data will move even better. Of course, they're moving now. - But now we're talking about these Super Pums. There was a bit of a misconception here, in my opinion, by a Member of Parliament when he said that the helicopters could be kept in Turku. Yeah, that's the idea. The choppers will remain in Turku without a doubt and the flights will certainly be able to continue. It's been about that night's air traffic control, isn't it? We have such fine helicopters in Finland that they can rise in the weather as in the weather, but the only problem is that if there is a very bad weather, we cannot land without air traffic control. Now Finavia has taken quite a lot of money from it, i.e. about 400,000 per year. So when we pay for air traffic control at night, which we do not need very often, we have had discussions about it since then, and in fact there has been a decision with Finavia that, at least at this stage, the agreement will not be extended. But you cannot land in Turku if there is no air traffic control and if there is very bad weather, but you can land in other fields, and it has been ensured that there should be no problem. Nevertheless, I say that I am working very hard to ensure that we are able to maintain that air traffic control there anyway, because even if the Border Guard does not need it, perhaps business and others do. I am, of course, going to join in on these projects, but other volunteers are also needed, and that is why negotiations have been held with the hospital district and with the city and the province so that we can maintain that night's air traffic control there in one way or another. So the choppers will survive, and there is no problem in terms of salvation, but, of course, from the perspective of the whole, it would be good for there to be night air traffic control and the debate will take place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u33	Then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u34	Madam President! The aim of the emergency services is to improve people's safety and reduce accidents. The aim is also to save people, safeguard important activities and effectively limit the consequences of an accident in the event of a threat or accident. This objective is worth achieving. It's about the safety of every day of our lives, every day. The proposal proposes to provide for a law on the organisation of emergency services. According to the applicable Rescue Act, rescue services are legal cooperation between municipalities, which is managed by 22 regional rescue services. It is proposed that the responsibility for organising emergency services be provided for the provinces referred to in the Regional Law. I believe that this is also the only right option for rural residents who need services and safety in everyday life every day. It is clear that the responsibility to organise the social welfare and health care services also affects the rescue services. The continued functioning of emergency services as part of the emergency care service chain requires that rescue services and emergency services are organised in the provinces to the same legal entity. The responsibility for organising emergency care will be presented to the provinces in the future. In this case, the rescue services must also be transferred to the responsibility for organising the provinces. The goal is that rescue services can continue to perform emergency care and emergency response tasks. I believe that this is the right direction, which will ensure that services are available even in the most remote parts of North Karelia. After the change, the regional business institutions should draw up a self-control programme for the services they are responsible for organising, defining how to ensure the implementation and quality of the services. In addition, the self-monitoring programme should define how the implementation and quality of services are monitored and how the identified shortcomings are addressed. I think that these are good things, and I think it is important that they are included in this proposal. This proposed law would not, as such, have any significant impact on the day-to-day operation of the rescue services and the draft law would not change the responsibilities of other authorities or the management relationships between the authorities. I think this is a good thing to be aware of, because each organisation retains its own tasks. The transfer of rescue services from 22 areas to 18 provinces does not have any significant structural or regional impact, with the exception of the Province of Uusimaa. Madam President! At the same time, I would like to highlight the need to ensure continued close cooperation between rescue services. The cooperation of the Republic of Finland with the Russian Federation is based on the 1992 agreement between the countries and the 1994 Helsinki agreement on cooperation in the prevention of accidents and the prevention of their consequences. By 2004, the local district cooperation included individual fire departments bordering on the border and from 2004 onwards rescue services in Lapland, Oulu, North-East Finland, Kainuu, North Karelia, South Karelia and Kymenlaakso. Similarly, Russian cooperation has involved the Kola Peninsula, in particular the Murmansk region, the Republic of Karelia, North-West Russia, especially the Leningrad region and St.Petersburg rescue organisations. From 2013 onwards, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ local regional cooperation appropriations will be allocated to multilateral regional cooperation, such as the Northern and Arctic Dimensions, Baltic Sea and Barents. Just as a reminder that Finland is the Presidency of the Arctic Council this year. The International Affairs Department of the Ministry of the Interior’s Rescue Department has tried to find an organisation in Finland that would be the applicant and possibly the administrator of EU funding. The question has been asked, among other things, by the border rescue services. The rescue services have not considered themselves to be in a position to take over the matter, because the agreements and other agreements have been concluded between the ministers of responsibility and the governments of the Republic of Finland and the Russian Federation. In addition, the rescue services have no financial means to participate in cross-border cooperation projects between the EU and Russia, as EU cross-border cooperation programmes require part-financing or own-financing. However, the rescue services have the skills, willingness and interests to participate in educational and operational activities such as neighbourhood cooperation. In such cases, it is possible to provide assistance on the basis of the above-mentioned agreements, on the basis of a request from the competent authority, to both sides of the national boundaries quickly, efficiently and with sufficient operational force. It is very important that there should be no interruption in cross-border cooperation even after this reform, because at the same time the network of co-operation which has been built over two decades begins to decline. The effects are particularly visible at the personal level, as the career cycle and pension systems of Russian colleagues are very different from our own. Breaks in cooperation, or even the end of it, have a crippling effect on the activities supporting the provision of rapid assistance. It must also be understood that many things are progressing between our countries only by the strength of good relations. Ministers responsible for rescue operations in Russia and Finland agreed in Moscow in 2013 to set up a permanent interministerial working group. The working group was set up in 2014. The aim of the working group is to develop uniform practices in cross-border cooperation. Regional and local representatives of border regions have also been appointed to the working group. Finland is represented by the Rescue Directors of North Karelia and Kyme and a representative of the Regional State Administrative Agency of Northern Finland. In addition, the working group is represented from the Emergency Response Centre Institute. The Civil Protection Agreement between Finland and Russia allows regional and local authorities to organise cross-border cooperation. Under the agreement, the regional and local competent authorities in the neighbouring regions of both countries may, under national law and within the framework of their respective powers and available resources, agree between themselves on cooperation within the meaning of the agreement. Each authority shall be responsible for the obligations arising from such commitments. Further cooperation between rescue services in Eastern and Northern Finland with operators on the Russian side is justified and supported. There are no specific funding schemes in the state budget to finance local-level cooperation with Russia, as funding for cooperation in neighbouring areas has been discontinued. Cross-border financing of local cooperation is based on the own funding of rescue services in this respect. Madam President! I would like to see national cooperation between Finland and Russia, as well as the international rescue assistance activities decided by the Ministry of the Interior, financed further from the state's revenue and expenditure estimates. If the funding is in the provinces, there is a great risk that the activity will cease or decrease substantially. This is something we can still influence ourselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u35	Mr President! Minister Risikko told me that he was raised by VPK — and so am I: at the age of 10 I have gone to the youth department of Pori VPK and since then I have always been involved in the rescue sector. There were a number of points here that I would like to comment on with this modest experience. Let's start with that division. The first thing to say is that the very essence is that there should be a shared division of areas with the division of areas in emergency care. So it is the determining factor, because otherwise that synergy will be lost, and if synergy is lost, then half of the rescue service would leave the crowd, and that is certainly not acceptable to anyone in the world of thought. At first the division was such that at some point 12 were rotated, then there were 5 and now 18, and, of course, for all of these I wondered about the working model and their pros and cons. And when you ran that 5-region model, it would have been the biggest opportunity to lighten the administration and get those savings out of it. Here was used such a statement, commenting that the best expertise is in the provinces. If you look at the answers to the consultation, there is a large proportion of opinions in favour of 18, against 5. But if we take a closer look at their content and remember that the background was the opportunity to lighten the administration, the question is, who have directed the statements of the areas of the rescue service, who have directed the statements of the provinces. They culminate in the rescue leaders, and when they have had two important roles in expressing their own message and there has been a certain thing in it, I have come across the idea, the question of whether fear of losing their own job has guided this statement too much. If you look at statements from the operational side, then those on the operational side — those who do the work as the great people understand it, that is, put out the fires and drive the ambulance and so forth — have been in favour of 5 areas. And what has been such a common factor here is that we now have 22 completely different ways of working on each other and this common guidance, such as alignment from the level of the kingdom, is needed. This must now be ensured — when we do this with 18 regions — that the Ministry has an adequate steering effect in order to achieve efficiency in this activity and, for example, to achieve efficiency in cross-border activities. Representative Kulmala crossed the borders of the kingdom, so that too must be borne in mind, but this rescue service goes beyond many borders, both the provincial borders in the future and the borders of different officials. And this cooperation with the authorities is also one of those things that must be kept in mind, and this greater role in the ministry will have an impact on this. So this is the kind of thing to keep in mind. Mr President! How long was the speech? [President MariaLohela :10 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u38	Mr President! I'm really worried about this one part of it. First of all, it is a very good thing that the government continues to assess the financial impact on the budget and on staff years, but this paper also tells us that some 380 people will be retiring from the rescue services during the next five years. Worried is whether they will be replaced or left unfilled. When such a number is retiring in a short time, has this presentation taken into account the fact that people should be prepared for it, so that people do not just come to a new job, such a demanding job, where then there is no induction and training? We all know what happened when basic income support was transferred from municipalities to Kela, to people who had not done that work before — then there was huge congestion and so on. I fear that the same thing may happen on this side if this new staff is not recruited on time and if there is not enough. Three and a half hundred people are a huge number of workers. It is a huge number of people, and they are also responsible for very long lives. They need to be able to pass that call for help to that unit and even guide that unit to that target when it's told a little vaguely where it is: "Then from that big gray stone you turn left at that big tree." Someone needs to know that route too, and no one will learn that in a moment when a new employee arrives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u39	Madam Speaker! There has been a very good debate here about the future of Finnish fire and rescue services, and it will now be in the midst of a major change, as will many other sectors as part of this social and health care and regional reform. As I said earlier in my reply, I believe that the province base, 18 autonomous democratic provinces, is a very good and natural basis for organising fire and rescue operations. As has been pointed out in speeches much more learned than I do here, the fire and rescue operation has a very physical connection with emergency care, which is why they must go hand in hand, both with the organisation of the war and with the organisation of the rescue services. Very good speeches were also made here on behalf of the fire brigade, and I received very good answers from the Minister, thank you for them. I like the sound of that. I have to say at this point that the Minister and I may be the breeders of the same fire department — but it should be pointed out that at a different time. And, yes, it must be said to Mr Jalonen that he raised some very good points, these realities, such as scuba diving, that there are enough people who are motivated to come to the alarms. But, yes, the situation is that if the fire brigades, the fire brigades, start to collapse, then we will be in real trouble, including from the point of view of public finances. However, the fact that we have free and contractual fire brigades is such that we have managed to keep the last security service close by, fire and rescue services. I do not underestimate the expertise of professional firefighters, it is absolutely brilliant — a great education is provided in Kuopio — yet this volunteer must be kept up. That's how it's built in a completely different way than what a cop does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u41	Madam President! One piece, i.e. the rescue services' share of this big package here today. First of all, thank you: it was good that the issue of emergency care remained in this same division of regions and was not given to the markets to deal with the companies, as there were plans at some point in time. I have just mentioned that we have these regional challenges with this disproportional size, whether it be Uusimaa or the smaller provinces that will be both in war and in the context of the rescue service. Last week we had a provincial and social law here, a big package, and indeed I was reading an e-mail and I said that there is now a supplement, a supplementary bill, and I must admit that I was a little surprised: would it not have been possible to wait a week after the big package came here, where there is also funding for the rescue services, to be able to re-examine the package? So that is where the Administrative Committee started just last week, and now, perhaps a month later, two years later, this contribution will come into the same law. It's a little confusing for this part. I do not deny that the Rescue Services Act, which is here today, is a complete entity, but that there will be a financing law that will become part of the legal package that we have already had here — it was confusing. This bill is also accompanied by a model whereby a business is then controlled by the rescue services. The Regional Council decides the level of emergency services to be provided, but the business body is the one that directs. I have not yet adopted why we could not have a province too — as is currently the case in the municipality, normally, is a municipal council and a board which then directs the agency whose name is the Social and Health Service or the Rescue Department — the same model that we would have a county council, a committee for the war and a committee for the rescue service, so that political decision-makers could directly influence the operation of the rescue service, its financing, its level of operation, its staff, its buildings, its equipment and everything. Now it's coming inside the business department and it's being controlled through there. I think this sounds a little weird. In the case of real estate, the bill states that they are leased from municipalities, such as social housing. And I thought — when I didn’t suddenly notice — whether it was three years in the detail, as well as social work, during which time the province rents these property related to the rescue facility, for all movable property is also transferred to the province free of charge. So the municipalities are here those who pay, and the municipalities will also be left with the debts of the real estate even after that, if the province may not use them any more in a few years' time. So to this number of years, perhaps a clarification that it is the same as when it comes to real estate rental. I was a little confused about this a little while ago when the representatives of the city centre asked if there was a strict state control and why it had to be so strict. Last week, the same representatives were very pleased that there will be very strict state control in the field of social protection. I do not quite understand why, then, suddenly on this rescue side, there would not be strict state control if the whole of the war were to be subject to strict state control and the whole province administration had strict state control, both in terms of funding and in terms of all the activities, even so that the Government could subject itself to decision-making if the provinces did not actually do what the Government wanted. But it was only confusing in my opinion, other than the disproportion that one should have strict government control and the other should have loose, certainly not be confused. Regionally, this balance should also be sought from the rescue helicopter section, because we have a south-east corner of Finland where there is no helicopter activity in the archipelagos and sea areas. Here on the west coast, such action exists and covers, but there is no helicopter activity in that eastern Gulf of Finland. That is not the point of this bill, but I would like this coverage to be seen in Finland with regard to all this service menu, so it would be there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u42	Mr President! My father started at the fire department at the age of 15 and continued to be 85 years of age by keeping the books of Savion VPK, and so did I when I was very young in the fire department, I received a vaccine, and then from the time I thought I was fit for some sort of fire-fighting or helper, I was on the alarm team. I have been watching in my own locality since the 1950s how rescue and, above all, fire operations have been organised. In the small village of Savio, with about a thousand inhabitants, there were two vpks who persisted in competing with the grandeur and number of members of fire trucks and evening feasts. That's good. One generation went by, the money ran out, and so they put the fire trucks in the same garage and the cooperation continues today. From the point of view of Kerava, to which Savio belongs, I believe that the response time could then be a little longer than at present, but the spirit was even greater. Everyone felt that the fire brigade was a community affair and it was supported by all means available. With the development of the store and, above all, of the city, old equipment began to be given to the fire brigades, because, would you say, with an hourly salary in accordance with a contract of office, old equipment was not worth repairing, but on a voluntary basis, and a little money was given so that the decks and other fire trucks could be replaced? From then on, a significant part of the resources, especially when there is a bigger situation, will come from fire brigades, that is, volunteers. And it seems that young people will also be involved, especially if there are reasonable things to do — and that is what the fire department does — but above all people who are eager to lead and teach young people. We have a line to the fire department, that's good. Then gradually three municipalities, Kerava, Tuusula and Järvenpää, together with more than 100,000 people, found that one municipality's job is to buy a ladder truck and other municipalities have to buy something else. The cooperation between the fire chiefs worked very well, and if it didn't work well, the mayors whistled off the game and agreed on what to do. And then it started to happen a little bit. Medical care, which was more or less private in the country as a whole, was left behind, so that some 40 out of 200 private self-employed workers were left, which means that there has not been any improvement in the readiness and availability of this capacity either. In my opinion, this was a serious mistake made when the public authority was given control over what is being used in what situation. Then, when we moved to Vantaa for Kerava and Tuusula as well, it started to happen. Tuusula gave such a property, ordered a fire station where no company would be prepared to set up a house of any appearance. It is difficult to find a more muddy place in Tuusula, where it took 20 meters of pole with a 3 meter split, when there would have been a good construction site across the street. Tuusula was able to sell, let me say, a general area that could not have been sold to anyone else. Vantaa, who built the building, also built a fire station with four conference rooms when they are said to be four, because each group must have its own. Even today, I do not understand how this can be the case, but it was only the collegiate — which was referred to here — that, when the fireman’s boss is often a former fireman, he has to reward his former colleagues in such a way that the games and brushes are on top of the last. If you look at such investments on the private side, you will be envious of this level of investments on the fire side. In practice, moving to the use of equipment left in the public sector in contract fire brigades means that, at unit price, this hourly and work input from the fire brigade is the cheapest of all: it is hobby activity, voluntary, as the old vpk concept suggests. But vpk is also an intermediate variable in many other matters. Yes, in Tuusula, the Hose, which was a dance place for the free fire brigade, has been a better maker of relationships than any other public authority, and the population is certainly still viable as a result. In other words, many sports clubs received, in many ways, more support for their activities than what it means to live by means of municipalities or other grants at the moment. Not to mention community. The fire department is a place where everyone is equal, unless the collars have experience or other merit, most rightly so. Everyone can come, and very often they will. It is also excellent for young men, let me say, for self-development: it is possible to acquire skills there, whether they are civic, first aid or similar. As a result, if, and in some areas, it may no longer be possible to recruit for the fire brigade in the same numbers as before, the maintenance of the operating conditions of the fire brigade must also be ensured in this context. Mr President! I believe that the state and regionalism are working well, but in themselves Uusimaa is an area so big spiritually that I cannot believe that it is identical to any other province. More than a million people, from Liljendal to Hanko, Swedish, Finnish, urban and rural areas, densely populated cities in the same organisation seem at least challenging, and especially if you go to the regional elections, you can see if there are candidates other than those in Helsinki, Vantaa, Espoo and the county council after the regional elections. In other words, other areas of the province may be completely excluded from the scope of this civic activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u43	Mr President! I would also like to say briefly that good and wise speeches have been made here. As this fire and rescue operation now comes under these 18 provinces, the aim is to improve these services and then improve quality. The emergency response means that 80% of emergency situations are urgent, i.e. emergency care, so it would be important for these ambulances and fire trucks to be available at every corner. But, as has also been said here, this voluntary fire brigade is very important in such small remote villages, and it has at least so far worked well. When one considers the equality of a citizen and thinks, for example, of one’s own municipality or those municipalities in remote villages, it must be noted that life there does not cost as much as it costs in the urban area. For example, we also have a 12-hour ambulance with a level of treatment. Then we should go 30 to 40 km, which may be helpful, or in the worst cases it will take more than three hours, for example, to make this reconstitution treatment possible. In other words, the last Pirkanmaa County Council decided that it was Kurus, which is now Ylöjärvi, that was shut down and weakened the services and then Kihniö. But luckily, Pirkkala operates this medical helicopter. All in all, there are six of them in our countries, and it has been said that this covers about 70 per cent of Finland as a whole. If you consider how long it will take to get from Pirkkala, for example, to my own municipality, Kihniö, it is about 30 minutes, and for that it is thanks to these doctor helicopters that many times life has been saved. If all these services do not exist, this is our ultimate protection. That, since this helicopter is leaving, will then depend on how the area alarm station will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u44	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen apparently did not understand the dialect of Pori clearly enough, which means that the contract fire municipalities play a very large part and play a major role in the rescue operations. Rescue is a large entity consisting of small pieces, and this compatibility, functionality, is the key issue. What was probably the cause of Mr Kurvise's misunderstanding was when I raised the problems, the concerns that the fire brigade, in particular, is going to be affected and targeted. But this synergy, which has led to this 18-region model, is the key issue, and this needs to be taken care of. The second thing that is biggest and most important here is indeed this reform of education. At this point, when emergency care comes to rescue services, it is also necessary to highlight this inclusion of a rescuer’s degree, a rescuer’s qualification, in the category of health professional qualifications, which will then enable these effective synergies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u45	Secretary Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u46	Madam President! Thank you for these comments. We have a very good text here in support of this. Well, that's good, and I think it's great that people from the rescue department and fire department came out here as well. Thank you. But then there are two questions. The second was Mr Jalos' question, and others asked about this training: we now have such a larger training renovation on the rescue services side that, for example, a person with a rescue degree could complete a local nurse’s degree at the same time, because the work of the future is very diverse and would expand the field of competence. After all, those who have completed a rescue college degree, a rescuer degree, have a very strong knowledge of emergency care, but it would be great if everyone could have an even larger degree, as a nearby nurse should have. Here in Helsinki it has already been possible, but in Kuopio it is not, and now it is planned to harmonise these trainings. Then, all in all, this kind of officer training and so on now passed through and see what can be done in it. But then there's another thing I'd like to do: Some reference was made here to the fact that how this business, whether rescue services and social services are in the same business. I have to say here that no one will have the wrong idea: The province may decide whether these are together or separately. The War Act, what's in this Parliament, is a mistake. It says that there is only one business — it is not true, and STM has promised to fix it. You can do as many businesses as you need, and I personally support that salvation, for example, should have its own business rather than with the wars, because they still have their own core functions. I am very much in favour of this happening, and it is possible under the law, and it has been agreed in its time, before Christmas. I don't know why it's wrong in the law of the STM. They said they'd fix it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u47	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Economic Affairs, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u48	Mr President! This is an EU directive, the national implementation of the ILUC. Many of these matters concerning ILUC — that is, the Indirect Land Use Change — have already been dealt with in a quite appropriate way for Finland. To that extent, this is a little like this unremarkable national implementation. The concern that the European Union has had about the amount of weeds that have been used in the production of biofuels has not really been relevant in Finland, because only second-generation biofuels have been used here, where grass crops have no part whatsoever. We will soon return to this subject not only through ILUC but also through future legislative projects, namely the rather ambitious 30% blending obligation in the energy and climate strategy will certainly be dealt with in Parliament soon, and of course it will be about how we will get rid of all fossil fuels as quickly as possible. This requires that we have a high and ambitious obligation to mix, and it will then also require the electrification of transport. To conclude, I would like to say that it is a good thing that this ILUC is now being implemented nationally and yet there is already a blending obligation for biofuels in the 25 EU countries. Interestingly, in the United States states such as California, San Francisco and Sacramento, there is even a 100% renewable fuel obligation on their own urban equipment and all that fuel comes from Finnish Neste.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u49	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u50	Mr President! I decided to make this speech for two reasons. First of all, it is appropriate to thank the government for its sensible proposal. We have certainly all been around businesses, and the demands to reduce the bureaucratic burden on companies have certainly become familiar to us all. This is exactly what the Government's proposal is doing with regard to the customer information system for business services. Firstly, focusing the service on one location means that in the future, entrepreneurs will only have to provide information to the customer information system once. Today, companies have to provide almost the same information to service providers on several occasions. Secondly, the aim of the information system is to improve cooperation between different government organisations in advisory services and corporate subsidies to enterprises. It also significantly harmonises the service to companies. Entrepreneurs and customers benefit from this. For entrepreneurs, easier everyday life means that more time is left to develop their own core function. This, in turn, will make companies more competitive. For business customers, more sensible regulation can be seen as a better and cheaper service. Mr President! The reform thus implements the objectives of more fluent regulation, deregulation and digitisation of the public sector set by the government itself. This is why both Finnish Entrepreneurs and EK have considered this proposal very worthwhile. On the other hand, Mr President, I agree with those who have just mentioned that we could do more, especially with regard to the digitisation of the public sector. For example, the decision to switch to e-receipts in the whole state administration would, according to expert calculations, generate savings of around EUR 800 million per year for the national economy. Similarly, full use of online invoicing would save expenditure up to EUR 3 billion. These are the entities in which the government should be active — but these are reforms which, if implemented correctly, not only save but also improve the services of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u51	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u52	Mr President! The need for this legislative amendment is positive. It is the result of economic growth and job creation in new growth sectors for which skilled labour is not sufficiently available. There is a shortage of experts suitable for job management tasks as well as for different kinds of design, development and research tasks. These tasks require a university of applied sciences and/or university degree. Investments in growth sectors have increased demand for higher education experts, for example in the construction sector, the marine industry and the automotive industry. According to the current Act on Public Employment and Business Services, training leading to a new higher education degree cannot be acquired as labour market training. Labour market training is also not possible for studies leading to a university degree if the purpose of the person is to complete only part of the studies required for the degree as labour market training and to complete the studies as self-employed studies. The framework conditions laid down by the existing legislation for obtaining higher education studies in the form of labour market training prevent or slow down the response to sudden labour market needs. The provisions are therefore proposed to be amended temporarily so that those who have already completed tertiary education could be offered the possibility of a type of conversion training aimed at completing a new degree in higher education. Graduation from universities usually takes between 4 and 7 years. The Government proposes a labour market training model that can respond to growing demand for labour faster than the usual training path. The proposal for an accelerated labour market training model for higher education experts responds to the need for the introduction of new technologies. The type of training to be acquired would be of a type of conversion and would refer to studies leading to a higher education degree in which a person's previous university degree studies can be regarded as having a significantly shorter period of training required to complete a new university degree. Training programmes tailored to different growth sectors would combine theory and practical learning and are intended for people with a pre-appropriate higher education base. Previous studies could be read as widely as possible in new studies so that a second degree could be completed within a maximum of two years. The aim is to ensure the direct employment of students by designing training programmes in collaboration with ely centres, employers and universities, so that they include not only theory but also practical learning. The Centre for the Economy, Transport and the Environment of Pirkanmaa and the Construction Industry RT Association have worked out, together with two educational institutions, the possibilities of implementing labour market training for the management needs of the construction sector. If the proposal for a new university degree as labour market training were accepted, contracting entities and educational establishments would be able to start two training programmes in the construction sector immediately. Mr President! The provisional model is intended to end in 2019. It would then be desirable to assess its effects and consider a possible permanent model if it is considered successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u53	Mr President! This bill is in itself good and responds to the changing educational needs of the growth sectors. In many areas, it has become a challenge to find higher education experts for work. As the previous representative said, these training programmes are tailor-made by sector and are intended for people with a previously suitable higher education base, and it is also good that previous studies are taken into account in new studies and that a second degree can be completed even in a short period of time, in about two years. So this is something to be welcomed so far. But the problem, Mr President, is that this training has not been allocated its own resources, but is financed from labour market money. Labour policy training has already been pushed down, which means that the volume has fallen during this government by more than half from before. This means that the disadvantaged unemployed, those most in need of training, suffer from a reduction in the budget. In other words, Mr President, this is in itself a good thing, but it is very unfortunate that funding should be taken from those who most need training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u54	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u55	Mr President! This government proposal proposes that Parliament approve the fisheries agreement and the fishing rule between Finland and Norway on the Teno River. The proposal also includes a proposal for a separate transposition law. Negotiations with Norway on fisheries agreements with Tenojoki were exceptionally difficult and finding common positions became extremely difficult. It is difficult to agree on common rules for fishing when in Norway the fishing rights at Teno are based on haymaking and in Finland on property ownership and old, so-called special fishing rights. There are also constitutional problems, conflicting interests of several groups of fishermen and important Sami issues. The committee and also the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have had a very large task to deal with the Tenojoki fisheries agreement. The committee has had to look at a very complex set of problems where there are no easy solutions. The complexity of the matter is described in great detail in the Committee's long, multi-generational report, and that is why, unfortunately, this introduction is bound to be somewhat prolonged. The committee draws particular attention to the fact that the final outcome of the negotiations is, in many respects, a difficult compromise for both Finland and Norway, but the main starting point remains the long-term and long-term improvement of the salmon stocks in the Teno River. The Committee stresses that special attention has also been paid to the interests of the local population in the conservation and exploitation of fishery resources. The river Tenojoki, with its traditional salmon fisheries, is very important for the preservation and development of the Utsjoki River Sámi culture. In addition, the objective is to take account of the fishing rights of those living outside the Tenojoki river valley. Mr President! Tenojoki currently has the largest wild salmon stock in the Atlantic region. However, the salmon catch has fallen to a lower level than before in the past 10 years. In summary, the committee noted that, based on recent research, a significant proportion of the salmon stocks in the 30 river basins are in unsatisfactory state. Negotiations on the agreement between Finland and Norway have been accompanied by further strengthening of cooperation between Finland and Norway in the field of salmon research. The joint research group of the countries has published reports on the state of Teno salmon stocks and has prepared assessments of the impact of various fisheries regulation solutions on the state of salmon stocks. The committee believes that the survey of Teno salmon stocks has been very diverse in recent years and can be considered as a very reliable indicator of the trends and status of salmon stocks. President! The committee states in its report that at present the exercise and limitation of fishing rights in Teno is carried out in accordance with the principle of residence, which is problematic and foreign in terms of both the Finnish property law system and the Constitution. However, the current principle of residence has been respected for a long time in Teno and the contract negotiations were unable to develop a replacement principle. The new package of agreements consists of an agreement between Finland and Norway and a fishing rule. The agreement includes provisions such as the organisation, monitoring, research, catch reporting and statistics of fisheries, the protection of fish stocks and the obligation of the parties to the agreement. The key reform of the fisheries agreement is to increase the planning and flexibility of the use and management of teno migratory fish. As an integral part of the agreement, the fishing rule needs to be periodically reformed. The new agreement provides for a management plan for salmon stocks to safeguard biodiversity and the sustainable use of salmon stocks. The desired improvement in the salmon stocks in the Teno River has been estimated to require a reduction in the fishing mortality rate of approximately 30% compared to the current situation. These mortality reductions are intended to be implemented by targeting new restrictions, particularly at the beginning of the fishing season, so that they can be more effective in improving the state of weak salmon stocks in particular. In this regard, it is a difficult decision to take, for example, in relation to traditional dam fishing and transport. Restrictions are also imposed on tourism fishing. An important part of the difficult coordination of interests is to change the marketing practice of tourist fishing permits by setting a strict total quota for the number of fishing authorisations and allocating them equally between countries. The number of licences to be sold has been limited, particularly in the early part of the fishing season. President! The law on the The committee notes that, according to the draft law on the law on enforcement, separate provisions under the legislation of the new Tenojoki Fisheries Agreement would be in force in Finland as a law. The Act on Recruitment sets out the criteria for permanent residence referred to in Article 2 of the Fisheries Code, which are broadly in line with the current practice of changing the requirement to have a residence of at least six months changed to seven months. The Act also defines a procedure for obtaining fishing authorisations in proportion to the size of ownership from a quota reserved for owners of fishing rights residing outside the territory. Authorisations may be redeemed within the limits of the quota to be set in such a way that the minimum holding would guarantee one licence under the quota. This has helped to improve the position of non-resident property owners to a small extent. The committee stresses that the total number of authorisations for ownership of non-residents is included in the tourism licence quota and does not increase the total number of licences sold for free fishing. President! The committee notes that the Act on Enforcement proposes the repeal of the so-called Teno Fish Compensation Act. The committee points out that, in the case of the fisheries compensation law, the old compensation payments are still pending, but under the transitional provision proposed, there will be no loss of rights for those entitled to compensation. In its report, the committee deplores the fact that it has not been possible to complete the very old cases of deprivation of justice in the part of the Teno River. The situation is legally unsustainable. The committee stresses the need for adequate financial and human resources to be provided to the Land Survey Institute for the completion of compensation payments, and the committee has also made a statement on this. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated in its opinion that, according to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the proposals are not problematic in terms of the protection of property or the freedom to conduct a business. This does not constitute a legal basis for providing for liability for the damage caused by new fishing restrictions. President! A few more words on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and on the fishing of the Sami people. In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry stresses the strong importance of natural livelihoods in Sami culture. The fishing culture includes traditional forms of fishing, such as dam and salmon net fishing and vegetative fishing. Fishing tourism is also now part of the Sámi fishing culture. However, the Sámi constitutional right to cultural self-government does not mean the unlimited right to decide on traditional livelihoods. Sustainable use of salmon stocks in Tenojoki is an important prerequisite for the preservation of the Sámi fishing culture. According to a report received by the committee, improving the status of salmon stocks and the objective of sustainable fishing require an increase in fishing restrictions at the beginning of the fishing season. However, efforts have been made to design painful fishing restrictions in such a way as to maintain a single fishing season for traditional fishing in the Teno River. According to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, Parliament's consent is necessary for the adoption of the Treaty and the consent of Parliament can be decided by a majority of votes and the legislative proposals can be dealt with in the ordinary legislative order. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs states as a starting point that the objectives of the proposal to regulate the sustainable fisheries of salmon stocks in the Tenojoki river basin can be considered acceptable, particularly in the light of the environmental liability provision of Article 20 of the Constitution, in the context of the fundamental rights system. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated in its opinion that the proposals are not problematic in terms of the protection of property or the freedom to conduct a business. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed that legislation should also strengthen the rights of the Sami people as indigenous people to maintain and develop their language and culture in the context of environmental liability regulation. The government's proposal can therefore be regarded as problematic in relation to the Constitution because less restrictive fishing restrictions on traditional Sámi fishing methods have been imposed on the basis of residence. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had to examine whether the provisions of Articles 2 and 4 of the Fisheries Rules would allow, for example, the amendment of Article 9 of the Act on Enforcement in such a way as to safeguard the rights of the Sami people better than the government's proposal. If it is not possible to improve the rights of the Sámi by amending the law on enforcement, the Constitutional Committee considers it necessary that, despite the adoption of the Treaty, Parliament obliges the Government to continue negotiations in order to safeguard traditional fishing related to Sámi culture. On this point, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry stated in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it was not possible to amend the law. The committee also drew attention to the fact that the Constitutional Committee's proposal was not influencing the legislative order. According to the report received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the possibility of reducing restrictions on Sámi residents living elsewhere on the basis of their place of residence had been raised in negotiations with Norway on agreements. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry explained, inter alia, by consulting the Ministry of Justice whether it would be possible to link fishing opportunities to the Sámi definition under the Sámi Act. The result of the study was that this was not a viable way of limiting the use of fishing rights. In particular, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry stresses that there is currently no Sámi definition in Finnish legislation which would allow the Sámi living outside the river valley of the Teno River to be defined. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stated in its opinion that the regulation of the catch register should be supplemented with regard to the proper protection of personal data. The committee proposes to supplement Article 7(2) of the draft law on enforcement. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered that the power to conclude agreements with Norway as defined in Article 2(1) of the draft Act on the enforcement of the Ministry's law on fishing rules should be restricted in a procedural manner by clearly binding the exercise of the power of derogation on full compliance with the obligation to negotiate Article 9 of the Sámi Act. The committee proposes to supplement Article 9 as proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. President! Finally, a summary: In its summary of the report, the committee notes that very different and, in part, completely different views on the targeting of fisheries regulation and the use of fishing rights in both Finland and Norway and also between different interest groups have made it much more difficult to negotiate agreements. The committee considers the new agreement to be a compromise between many cross-rights, which restricts fishing for all groups of fishermen. In the course of the expert consultation, the committee has been briefed on the impact of any rejection of the agreement. If Parliament decided to reject the agreement, Norway would probably terminate the current agreement before the 2018 fishing season. On the basis of the information received, the committee also considered it unlikely that it would be possible to find a better solution to a long-term negotiated agreement through further negotiations. The Committee also considered it necessary to safeguard the conditions for tourism fishing and to resolve any problems quickly. Particular attention must be paid to the fact that tourism entrepreneurs will continue to be able to plan their activities and investments on a long-term basis. The committee also drew attention to the need for provision to be made for amending and supplementing the agreement and the fisheries code in the near future. Finally, in its report, the committee stressed that the fishing rule attached to the agreement was initially valid for a period of five years. During this period, experience with the application of the Agreement should be studied and any necessary changes negotiated. The Committee considers it important for the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, together with Norway, to examine the overall functioning of the agreement and the trends in fish stocks no later than three years after the entry into force of the agreement. In addition, the scope and use of fishing rights for Sámi and non-resident property owners should be assessed. At the same time, the conditions for the transition to day-to-day and seasonal fishing quotas must also be clarified. With regard to these matters, the committee will also submit a proposal for a statement for adoption. President! This report was not unanimous. This includes an objection and the objection includes a proposal for rejection, and it will certainly be presented at a later stage. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u56	Mr President! The Teno River is the pearl of the North Atlantic. 30 different salmon populations live there. [Interjection] The state agreement negotiated with Norway on Teno fishing is a compromise for all. Fisheries will be reduced by about 30%. Fishing has been cut from both the beginning and the end of the fishing season. Fishing with traditional gears is limited to local residents. In this way, local river Sami culture and livelihoods have been secured. It is essential that the Sámi can maintain their traditional fishing culture on the Tenojoki River. This includes dam fishing, online fishing and transport, i.e. driftnet fishing. The great lack of agreement is that, in the case of Sámi out-of-towners, the practice of traditional fishing is hindered. It is important that those who have been granted a fishing licence can maintain their indigenous culture and roots when travelling to the Tenojoki valley. There is a flaw in the agreement that no fishing rights have been agreed with Norway for Sámi out-of-towners. However, the state of salmon stocks is so weak that it is not in anyone's interest to continue on the basis of an old agreement or in an uncontracted state. A key element of the agreement is that, as the situation improves for salmon, it can be made more flexible to make changes. I expect that the rights of the Saami will be improved as soon as possible and when salmon stocks allow it. The Tenojoki Agreement also establishes a local observatory to assess the functioning of the agreement and to take initiatives. It is essential that the Sámi are involved in all further negotiations. The agreement has also cut free fishing, i.e. tourism fishing permits by one third. [Interjection] In committee we heard about the research methods of the Natural Resources Centre and the state of the salmon in the Teno River. Fish stocks have been studied for decades. There is maternal fish ascent monitoring, video tracking, diving and research with sonar. The genetics of fish have been monitored from scales samples. It is essential for research to be developed more comprehensively and for dialogue with locals. In order to safeguard salmon, it is essential to prevent the salmon parasite from entering Teno. Therefore, only boats registered there may be used on the Teno River and tourist fishing equipment must be disinfected. There is also an urgent need for a regulation to safeguard the protection of salmon stocks in Teno's waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u57	Mr President! The new fisheries agreement between Finland and Norway in Tenojoki is a complex and difficult issue. The committee has done a good job in view of the challenging nature of the matter. It is clear that Teno salmon is not well. There are about 30 geneticly different salmon stocks in the river, and some of the stocks are not feeling well. Protecting Teno’s salmon also protects the salmon catches of the future. However, the agreement that has been under discussion in committee since last autumn is problematic. In Lapland, there is strong opposition to the agreement. The Sámi are opposed to this because their ability to engage in traditional fishing practices is becoming more difficult. Local fishing tourism entrepreneurs are concerned about what restricting licences means for their business. Real estate owners in out-of-town areas also feel that their rights are being violated because the right to fish belonging to their property is not valid for them. In Teno's main bath, the owners of the water area outside the municipality are not entitled to fish on the Finnish side, but their property rights are currently completely devoid of content. They are only allowed to fish with poles and lures, and their fishing regulations and the price of the daily permit are similar to those of any tourist fisherman from elsewhere. Mr President! Salmon must be protected, but protection must comply with all the principles of legal integrity and must be carried out on the basis of research and agreed principles with locals. The responsibility for the protection of the salmon stocks in the Teno River must be fair and balanced between the contracting countries, now this is not the case. Mr President! The whole is very challenging because the fishing rights systems in Norway and Finland are different and the starting point for many interest groups that fish for Teno salmon is a difficult issue. Restriction of salmon fishing for conservation purposes: Local and out-of-town property owners also have different rights to fish. The whole is complex and it is difficult to find a satisfactory solution for all. It is important that the status of salmon stocks can be monitored reliably and so that research data are collected and scientific facts taken into account when assessing the state of salmon stocks. The expert opinions submitted to the committee have expressed a wide range of views on the current state and trends of the salmon stocks in the Teno River and on the necessary fishing restrictions. In some expert opinions, the need for stricter regulation of Tenojoki fishing has not been considered to be reliable and the research data and methods used in the Government proposal have been considered to be one-sided. It is essential that the monitoring and development of salmon stocks be continued, thereby also providing better local acceptance of research data. It is good that, in its statements, the committee is proposing additional resources for the Land Survey in order to complete the construction of the old special-purpose fishing rights in a timely manner. The second statement requiring the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, together with Norway, to examine the overall functioning of the agreement and the trends in fish stocks no later than three years after the entry into force of the agreement, must also be supported. In addition, the statement calls for an assessment of the scope and use of fishing rights for Sámi and non-resident property owners, while also identifying the conditions for the transition to day-to-day and seasonal fishing quotas. The committee has done a good job in this regard. Despite a good report and good statements, the overall picture is that the SDP believes that an agreement of this kind should enjoy strong confidence and acceptability among locals. We therefore believe that negotiations on agreements should be reopened and that the proposed form of the agreement should not be accepted. The SDP objects to one statement calling for a study to be carried out on the economic, social, cultural, environmental and rights implications of the Tenojoki Agreement. The SDP is proposing to reject the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u58	Mr President! The work of a Member of Parliament is interesting in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, especially when it comes to salmon. With regard to this agreement, too, this discussion has been particularly nuanced and there have already been different views on the opening of negotiations on the agreement and on who has been able to negotiate this agreement. The local Sámi have criticised the fact that they have been ignored during the negotiation of the agreements and thus call into question this negotiation process. This is particularly difficult, difficult and complex. As Mrs Wallin said earlier, not everything and everyone's rights are guaranteed in this Treaty as it should be in the Treaty. That is why a Member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Left-wing Union agrees with that protest of the Social Democrats and specifically with this rejection. When it is known that there are about 30 geneticly different salmon stocks in the Tornio River, it is clear that their protection must be at the heart of this. And at least Mr Myllykoski has been able to show that the salmon stock is under threat and that its fishing effort must be contained. There have been other points of view which call into question these studies, but as far as this preparation is concerned, I have been convinced that the threat and the need for protection are unmistakable. On the other hand, it is a bit unfortunate and, if I may say so, double standards that this unquestionable right of the local people is being threatened here, and that is why I cannot accept this agreement as a left-wing MP. In particular, the Sámi are a group that bears the greatest load of this injustice. At the same time, when, in the new fishing law, the locals have been deprived of the right to fish free of charge and are subject to authorisation — Metsähallitus is planning to increase fishing and marketing of permits in these areas — the state is concerned that too much fishing is being done in Teno. On the other hand, licences are sold and on the other hand, licences are restricted. This is a rather weak proposal from the state, and in particular, I understand that Metsähallitus has income requirements, and this is how these local people are being paid these permit fees, which they have never had in the past. I will not speak any longer; good, well-founded speeches have been made here, what difficulties there are with this agreement, and they have focused on these very legal issues. We must give the committee a full 10+, and the report in particular is excellently written. It contains a well-founded text, but these issues of fairness prevent us from agreeing with the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u59	Mr President! I already missed the times I was in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the legendary MP Erkki Pulliainen, the Wolf. With a bulwark, one with respect for each other’s expertise, we discussed even difficult matters. With regard to this green line, however, they now seem to have such a role that they can always support all good things and resist bad things: This is quite a bit where I found the basis and, quite ecologically, I found the salmon, now putting it above the rights of the Sami people. It reminds me of a trilogy here under the North Star. There Janne Kivivuori, who was negotiating for the workers at the time of agricultural strikes, said in the hot stages of the negotiations that "I am here under the authority of the maids and the men, not the cows as the masters seem to be". This is a somewhat similar arrangement for the Greens, and it must then be asked whether those who practice an ancient fishing culture want to destroy the salmon. At least they have some kind of expertise. They want to continue that culture from one generation to the next. The Greens’ line does, however, call into question the fact that they still bear in mind the extensive reform of the fishing law and the fishing rights of Lake Inari. It was put to the vote — and I remember exactly that, because I myself put it to the vote — and if the Greens had been in the same position as the Group, it would not have been the case that the split between the half and half of Metsähallitus' share and the local share were converted into a commercial sale for Metsähallitus two thirds and one third for the locals one third. Is this how it was supported by the Sámi culture? The same is happening now, as Mrs Myllykoski also said: On the sides of Teno, local people, the Sámi, the right becomes subject to a fee and authorisation and, on the other hand, the possibility of fishing is increasingly open to commercial use. This is an indisputable fact. Is this how the salmon will be saved by more trade, not just fish, but, in the worst case scenario, a unique local minority culture? The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is very critical in many respects, and I wonder how the agreement and the fisheries clauses can be followed. And I was surprised that when I came to the Constitutional Committee's opinion, at least in the north it was reported that the representatives from the centre have been very much involved, but then, when I looked at the Constitutional Committee's opinion, there was no difference of opinion there than the Swedish representative. I have tried to raise myself to it, even though there have sometimes been a lot of tough places in politics, that at least we should try to stick to the fact that words and deeds are one. Mr President! We have received a lot of expert feedback along the way, which, in fact, calls into question some of these expert opinions as to what the real situation of salmon is and what ultimately jeopardises that salmon. But a few points about the message of the Sámi Council: it states that the protection of the salmon stock is of paramount importance to the Sámi people in the region, but it cannot be done in a way that so flagrantly violates the basic and human right of the Sámi people to their own culture, property, livelihood and self-determination. There is, of course, a contradiction here between putting two constitutional rights against one another, and if the situation is so bad, then we should take a time-out and reject this agreement. And another point here in the report of the Sámi Council says that traditional fishing is carried out with family and family. In other words, these traditional unallocated rights are being violated for over a generation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u60	Mr President! Here, the left, Mrs Myllykoski, was the first to address a very sensitive and good subject, which, in the debate in committee, has come up many times: it is the fate of these tributaries. We know that spawning potential is nowhere near the level that it should be, and now Metsähallitus — nothing has yet been decided — plans to start selling permits to these tributaries. This must actually be taken into the report, as has also been said in the committee, and it must be considered that, when these restrictions are now quite tough in the lead, it is actually logically wrong if we open up the sale of permits to a large extent in the pages where the problem is actually as big or bigger. These comments are quite correct. Then I would quickly say that the main problems now come to the tourist entrepreneurs and we must also pay particular attention to how this marketing of licences will be organised next summer and in the coming summers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u61	Mr. Speaker! However, as Mr Eestilä said earlier, we can draw a conclusion from the very good speeches we have just made, that we would now be adding licence sales to the tributaries. That is exactly what the committee points out, that this cannot be the case, but that of course the starting point is the state of the salmon stocks that is there, and that is not going to happen, i.e. this sort of correction to the fact that there will not be such a picture that now there will be an increase in the fishing pressure of the tributaries: this will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u62	Mr President! If we want to get those tributaries fixed locally, then the only possibility for us is that we will correct Section 10 of the Fisheries Act, because, according to Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, in that region of the three northernmost municipalities in the past, locals were able to catch all the fish in current waters, state-controlled currents, and now, with this amendment to the Fisheries Act, the locals were deprived of this age-old right to fish there on government currents. Now that this right has been removed from the local population, Metsähallitus and hence the state have every right and the opportunity to start doing this quotaed licence sale to that region, and this is a very heavy and difficult issue for the locals, alongside this salmon issue. The least we can do to help the Utsjoke is to change its section 10 of the Fisheries Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u63	Mr President! Last August the representatives of Lapland visited Upper Lapland, and then we received such clear greetings from the people concerned by these proposals, and the greetings were that if the worst were to go, then this agreement must be overturned. More broadly, the role of Metsähallitus in the coming times will now be mirrored. If it loses its social license and legitimacy, the problems are diverse. The question is how much Metsähallitus is allowed to spend, whether it is a permit sale or forestry activities of Metsähallitus. But there is no doubt that the rights of the local people are being trampled on in a very glaring way now — I referred to the fisheries law, to this treaty and to the fisheries chapter — and there are indications of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u64	Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u65	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that Parliament approve the agreement on fishing in the waters of the Teno River with Norway and the fishing rule which forms an integral part of it. The new agreement would replace the fisheries agreement concluded between the countries in 1989. The winner of this proposal is salmon — for others it is a compromise that we will have to live with in the future. I do not yet know any person who is fully satisfied with the fisheries agreement. Entrepreneurs fear for their livelihood and the Saami for their way of life. Property owners in out-of-town areas are in the position of tourist fishermen, and even the recreational fishermen in the south are annoyed by the shortening of fishing time. Teno fisheries agreement between Norway and Finland has already been signed last year. The agreement is considered essential for the recovery of weakened salmon stocks. In my view, this is the only reason why this agreement is acceptable. The aim of the agreement is to reduce the number of salmon dying in fishing by 30%. This will be successful if fishing times are shortened. The fishing restrictions have been targeted on the basis of research data, in particular at the beginning of the fishing season, so that their impact on salmon stocks would be as high as possible. It is clear that more mother fish are needed in the kudu. This is one way of achieving a viable salmon stock in the future. The quota for 22,000 fishing authorisations per fishing season for tourism fishing shall be allocated equally with Finland and Norway. In the future, it will be possible for Finns to buy permits from both Finnish and Norwegian quotas. The licensing system must be developed electronically, making it easier to buy permits and allowing them to be reserved in advance for fishing crews or individual fishermen. I also welcome the fact that the salmon caught must be reported to the information systems after fishing. This has been the case for decades in hunting for game, why not also in fishing? I think it is a good thing that the catch limits or the daily catch quotas did not materialise. An enlightened fisherman can himself decide how much fish he takes and how much to let back into the water. Unnecessary fishing for "fishing and fishing" is unacceptable. I think it's playing with food, and at least the Saami don't do it. Traditional fishing methods used in the course of the operation, such as dams, transport and online fishing, have belonged to people who own real estate along Teno. This agreement is reducing these rights. The reason for this is the further weakening of the salmon stocks, not the lack of understanding or ill-manneredness of the south. Already in 1989, the rights of owners of summer cottages were restricted in such a way that they were not allowed to fish with nets or lures based on land ownership. In practice, out-of-town property owners will continue to be in the position of tourist fishermen. The possibility for holders of fishing rights who are permanently resident outside the Teno River Valley to exercise their fishing rights at present depends on whether the fishing right is based on inheritance or on other sources, such as trade. An heir has the right to use traditional fishing gear and his own boat. In Teno's main bath, the owner of the water area outside the municipality has not had the right to fish on the Finnish side, but their fishing rights are currently completely lacking in content. They are only allowed to fish with poles and lures, and their fishing regulations and the price of the daily permit are similar to those of any tourist fisherman from elsewhere. So they're like a tourist fisherman. In the past, foreign fishing right holders have not had the right to use their own boat for fishing in Tenojoki. True, this has been circumvented for years to borrow a neighbor’s boat and keep it on its own shore. In the future, holders of fishing rights residing elsewhere shall have the right to register one boat per property if the property has a sufficiently large share of the common water area in the border river Tenojoki area or a private water area of equivalent size. I very much welcome this point in the reform. However, fishing from a boat will continue to be permitted only on a fishing boat registered in the Tenojoki boat register with its national code and number. This is particularly good from the point of view of control. According to Article 9 of the Act on the acquisition of power, a permanent resident of the Tenojoki river valley is considered to be a person whose municipality of residence, within the meaning of Article 2 of the Act on the Municipality of residence, has been Utsjoki or Inari on the last day of the calendar year preceding the fishing season and who has actually lived along the river valleys of the Tenojoki river for at least seven months during the year preceding the fishing season. This definition is broadly consistent with the already established interpretation practice in the application of the current agreement, with the amendment that the currently required housing of at least six months has been changed to seven months. This change seems a little bit pulled out of the hat, but somewhere the border has to be. Summer tourism in the municipality of Utsjoki is largely dependent on the fishing tourists of Tenojoki. It is a big source of income for municipal tax revenues and vital for tourism entrepreneurs. The possibilities of living in the north are non-existent without Teno fishing. In recent years, tourism entrepreneurs have invested significantly in the development of tourism across Utsjoki and have also invested in accommodation facilities for winter tourism. This would not only depend on fishing tourism. Particular attention should therefore be paid to the fact that tourism entrepreneurs can continue to plan their activities as long as possible. The future must be secured. When the number of permits is reduced as shown, it is a real challenge for tourism companies on the Finnish side. Norway has accepted the agreement, but it does not have to think the same way about tourism entrepreneurs, because there are few of them on the Norwegian side of the river. It should also be remembered that there are many other salmon rivers in Norway where they can concentrate fishing. Tenojoki is not as important to them as it is to Finns and people in Finland. This fisheries agreement obliges Finland and Norway to draw up a joint management plan for salmon stocks, which will be the starting point for regulating the fisheries in the Teno River. I think it is important that the Tenojoki Agreement allows for a smooth change of fishing regulations in the event of improvements in the condition of salmon fish. Recovery is expected in two generations of salmon, or more than 10 years. In committee, we considered it important for the Ministry, together with Norway, to examine the overall functioning of the agreement and the trends in fish stocks no later than three years after the entry into force of the agreement. Mr President! As I said at the outset, the winner of this agreement is only the original wild Atlantic salmon, this agreement is a compromise for the other parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u66	Mr President, värderade talman! Tenojokiavtalet är verklogen ingen höjdare. Det är tvärtom en trist och tråkig history.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u67	Mr President! Last summer, my son and I were in Teno, and we came home with six kilos of salmon. By the way, it was a fish of its own taste, so let's work in this room to ensure that the salmon continue to be in Teno and that we could go fishing there and see that the locals too can live and work in the area. The Teno Agreement is an extremely difficult issue and we are in a difficult situation here. The agreement is a matter shared by two countries, each with its own wishes, interests and objectives. It is important for Finland to safeguard the traditional cultural fishing of salmon by locals, mainly the Sami people, as well as tourism fishing. Both are living conditions for the municipality of Utsjoki. The Norwegian interests are in the sea, in the sides of Norway and in the 60 km of the river below the Finnish border. The river section at the Finnish border has a relatively small share of Norwegian interests. However, two thirds of the salmon production area is located on the Norwegian side. Therefore, we Finns are in a situation where Norway is a contracting party, and we are in a very difficult situation here as Finns. Of the negotiators, the Utsjoke have also recognised the need to reduce the mortality of the fishing stock and they are prepared to do so, but the negotiations have not been properly managed, as the Utsjoke reports. The results of the studies on the basis of which the agreement has been concluded are also not reliable. The fishing rule annexed to the Agreement contains a number of points which take the bottom away from the acceptability of the Agreement as a whole. If we do so in accordance with the fishing rules, the mortality rate of the fishing stock will be reduced considerably more than is intended. The difficult situation in Finland during these border river negotiations was already known last autumn. On the positive side of the final stage negotiations, it was agreed in the autumn that the provisions on the Norwegian side, i.e. from Teno's mouth up to 60 kilometres, should not be less stringent than the agreement, i.e. on the border section, that is to say a little relief. The conclusion of the Tenojoki Agreement is based on information that the mortality of Teno's fishing fleet must be reduced. Norway initially required a 50% reduction and Finland required a 30% reduction. This proposed agreement, which we are now discussing, was won by the Finns by 30 per cent. Then the objective is to restore the salmon situation in Teno and to save endangered salmon stocks. But is knowledge of salmon numbers based on sufficiently reliable research? There have been very strong doubts about this, and that is why I think it is very important that a sufficiently wide range of research methods, already recognised in advance by the various contracting parties, be put in place next summer as to how many salmon actually run in the river. To this end, we received EUR 490000 in the 2017 budget for the introduction of Teno sonars. Hopefully the Norwegian State will also make a similar investment. It is also important that these sonars are systematically deployed as soon as the ice leaves so that they can be used throughout the summer. In addition, other research methods in use must be combined with these sonar results. For the future, it is very important that there is reliable, recognised information on the number of salmon and that all parties recognise that this is the situation. Mr President! What, then, are the problems of this agreement summed up? The most serious problems are the few details of the Teno River fishing rule — that is, only a few details are those that are the worst. They relate precisely to fishing gear, fishing season and fishing seasons. For the locals, the Saami, the problem is fishing time and the use of these instruments in terms of network and dam fishing and transport. And then the second is this allocation of fishing permits for tourists. With regard to the allocation of fishing permits, we must remember that it has been agreed, for example, that 11,000 licence days will be sold next summer and these 11,000 days will be sold in such a way that half is on the Norwegian side and half is on the Finnish side, and then out of the 5500 that will remain on the Finnish side, then we will remember that they will be divided into five different zones on the river and then divided into nine different times, and then we will remember that one third of all permits sold on the Finnish side will be sold to cottagers. Who keeps tabs on the road? I therefore hope that next summer we will at least get the calculation system in order in some way, because this is a very difficult and difficult calculation plan. What can be done if this agreement is approved? Next summer will be a very bad summer for the municipality of Utsjoki, for it is a miracle that small permits for sale will be obtained in the right way next summer because of a very confusing bureaucratic rule. Therefore, at this point in time, we must make a real effort to get these patterns into play. First of all, we must get a proper start next summer on the number of salmon I have already mentioned, how many there are, and secondly, we must immediately get the monitoring of the effects of the agreement under way. We need to find out how the marketing of permits has begun to operate on the Finnish and Norwegian sides — whether these permits have been sold or whether there is a need to do something else to manage the permits — and, secondly, how much the mortality of fishing stock has been reduced for local fishermen. What I have discussed with the locals is their assumption that it will be the 30% that is the goal, much greater, that is, they will not be able to get those salmon anywhere near the target. Then we need to find out how much dam fishing has decreased, how much this net fishing has decreased, all of these. And then, if these systems have not begun to function in the way that this agreement is intended to do, then we must be able to address these problems next summer, during the period. So we must not wait too long for it, because we have to help, so that the municipality will certainly survive and the people in that area will survive in this. As soon as possible, we must be able to introduce Article 6 of the agreement. Article 6 is entitled 'Possibility to derogate from the fishing rule', as the fishing rule may be derogated from. In other words, it is precisely in these problems which I mentioned above that Article 6 allows for derogation from these rules: it is possible to derogate if they concern a prohibition or restriction on fishing with a particular gear or fishing method, or it is possible to derogate if they concern a prohibition or restriction on fishing at a given time or in a given area, or if there are quantities of authorisations involved. In other words, in these essential points, where there are problems, exceptions can be made. Article 7 of the Agreement is "Assessment of the effects of the rules on fisheries and the procedure for derogating provisions", i.e. "The Joint Monitoring and Research Group of the Parties and the competent authorities shall assess annually the impact of the rules on fisheries and any derogating provisions on the state and trends of the best salmon stocks. The holders of fishing rights shall be included in the evaluation work." Secondly, "the governments or their designated authorities shall each year assess the need to agree on provisions derogating from the fishing rule in accordance with Article 6. " Mr President! Finally, the Utsjoke people feel betrayed in the negotiations on this agreement. We need to hear their needs. We need to find out how we help them. Firstly, the measures I have just mentioned, and secondly, Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, which has this free-of-charge right of the locals to fish in the state's current waters, and thirdly, that the fisheries compensation law issue must be brought to an end properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u68	Mr President! As early as last summer, when this agreement was initialled, so to speak, between Norway and Finland, i.e. provisionally adopted, it was clear that this would be a difficult matter to decide both in the parliamentary committees and, of course, in the whole Parliament. And the reason for this difficulty is that these constitutional rights in this matter are so cross-checked that it is practically impossible to conclude such an agreement that everyone with constitutional rights would be satisfied with. In that sense, from the point of view of Parliament, the only possible way to conclude this treaty and protect fish stocks is a compromise, and it is clear, of course, that, depending on who you ask, the compromise is always a bad one. If I myself look at this agreement from many different points of view, I would not do such an agreement and, of course, I do not think it is good in its entirety, but when it comes to whether it is generally concluded with Norway, which owns two thirds of these regions and which owns the land from which the salmon come, I think diplomatic cooperation with Norway is inevitable and essential. I therefore encourage Mr Tiilika to keep in good contact with our Norwegian colleagues in such a way that we can then complete the difficult issues that have been raised many times in this debate, namely the difficult position of tourism entrepreneurs, the difficult position of tourists and the difficulties in selling licences and the difficulties that we now know they are facing. It is important for all these parties, and in particular for tourism entrepreneurs, that the sales of permits are known in advance, to whom they are given, and to what extent, because no one will start booking those accommodations there a week before the holiday, they must be known. After all, fishing is based on it — it is a social activity. Often three or four guys go fishing, and they need to know in January whether these accommodations exist there and whether they are allowed to go to a specific pool in a given week. These are big problems. I do not know the solutions to them, and I have the impression that at the moment nobody knows the solution. These are the issues that we should focus on, as it were, in the coming months and not on whether this agreement is wrong or who is suffering, because this is where everyone is suffering. I find it a little strange that it is being strongly questioned in this Chamber as to whether these salmon stocks have fallen or not. If Parliament takes decisions and the committee deals with these issues and listens and hears experts, then we must be confident that the messages from many different sides, especially these salmon that return from the sea — which means between 8 and 15 kg, most often the mother fish — are the very group to which this overfishing has long been directed. And the spawning potential is nowhere near being used in the Teno River or in its flanks, so that is ultimately what this is all about, that is to say, Article 20 of the Constitution has already been seen last summer. has led to this agreement likely to be adopted here in Parliament, at least in the form of a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. In my opinion, it has emerged in some debate that MPs would not respect Sámi culture or local residents, but I do not know a single MP who would not respect Sámi culture, the culture of Lapland as a whole, and would value locality, because this locality has been the factor in Lapland for centuries, which, as it were, gave the rights to fish and practice culture. Of course, fishing was of quite different significance for decades and centuries ago, because it was a matter of survival, life and death. Today there are a few other issues at stake, but that does not make the ban on weakening the Sámi culture any smaller. But when we start to conclude an agreement in which, however, 70% of the fishing rights are held by private individuals, and in Finland everyone's property is secured, we certainly have to contradict who reduces them, because for everyone they are equally important from the point of view of justice. And when we know that these big fish will rise to the very tributaries of the early season, then it is clear that the greatest restrictions must be targeted at that early period so that we can make better use of that spawning potential in the tributaries. In fact, this is one of the finest salmon rivers in the North Atlantic and the world, and my own view is that the quantity of fish that is currently there and what is being fished can be multiplied. That potential is so poorly used in certain areas, even said that it is 30%. In other words, it is only a matter of being forced to cut this fishing mortality rate by 30%, because some of the stocks of the tributary that are threatened have found that fishing mortality may be as high as 90%. It's too big a number, and we have to do something about it. One thing that has also been raised here in the debate is this role of Metsähallitus. Here, the chairman of the committee quite rightly stated that it is not intended to go on a calculation to increase the number of fishing in the tributaries, but now that the main line is subject to such high and great restrictions, especially in the early years, in terms of transport and networking, in terms of these traditional forms of fishing, we must certainly assess what kind of regulation will then be adopted by the Council of State and the Ministry, so that we are in sync with the fact that when the main line is significantly restricting fishing, what is the amount that can be made on the sides? I would also like all parties to understand these decision-makers, who are now taking this matter forward and are likely to accept this treaty in Parliament, that is, if something good is to be achieved, there must be patience to give up something and wait ten years. If we actually succeed with this measure — which is in itself uncertain whether this will be enough — to raise the salmon stock in Teno, we will be proud to see water flowing on the Finnish side, which represents the best salmon river in the world. This is what we're trying to do, but it's just gonna take some time. And if, over time, there are excessive problems or there is a need to review this border river agreement together with Finland and Norway, it will certainly take place, and it is already recorded in the committee's report that this will then be done through the examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u69	Mr President! Teno's new fisheries agreement between Finland and Norway is an exceptionally difficult matter, almost like having to choose between the plague and cholera. At the same time, the issue is very important, since Teno is the largest wild salmon stock in the Atlantic. First of all, the basic thing: I believe there is no alternative that the current situation should continue. Norway has been pushing for the amendment of the current agreement as early as the 1990s, the negotiations ended in 2001 without results, and the Norwegian negotiators have made it clear that if Finland does not ratify the agreement, Norway will terminate the current agreement before the summer 2018 fishing season. What, then, would result from an uncontracted state? First of all, the possibility of a joint effort by Finland and Norway to agree on measures to safeguard the future of Teno salmon and other migratory fish would be removed. Finland would lose its voice on what is happening on the 60 km river section which is entirely on the Norwegian side. Secondly, no longer should any Finnish fish from the entire width of the river, but only between the middle line of the main bed and the shore on the Finnish side. Thirdly, traditional fishing, such as dams and drift nets, could no longer be fished because their legality in Teno is based only on the agreement between Finland and Norway. Then on this main deal, the Sámi and the salmon, and first on the salmon: A wide range of views have been expressed in the debate and debate on the state of the salmon stock. I personally believe that the results of the study show that the salmon stock has deteriorated and developed well in the opposite direction to the salmon stock of other Norwegian rivers that enter the Arctic Ocean. The same results have been obtained through a wide range of research methods. Genetic research has shown that salmon in the upper rivers are particularly weak. This is due to two factors: firstly, the fact that the high-river salmon swim in the main inlet for a longer distance and thus become more vulnerable to fishing, and secondly, the fact that fishing in the main inlet has started too early to tax the earlier high-river salmon. Fishing research methods have been developed in different countries and have developed very strongly. They have been needed around the world to assess and revitalise the state of fish stocks. They are used, among other things, to assess the situation of salmon stocks in different rivers in the Baltic Sea and have managed to agree on measures to revive fish stocks, including salmon from the river Tornio. A great many actions to revive fish stocks have been accompanied by strong disputes, but experience shows that long-term overfishing can collapse below the sustainable level of returning salmon stocks and endanger the future of the entire stock. So I don't think the fish scientists would have a foxtail for Teno's salmon under their arm. I believe that the message of scientists must be taken seriously: the salmon stock is deteriorating and action is needed to revive it. However, I would like to emphasise this, and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will also do the same, that provision must be made for future revision of the agreement and of the fisheries code. If we achieve what we are trying to achieve, namely the recovery of the salmon stock, fishing restrictions can be relaxed. The committee therefore calls for the Ministry to review the operation of the agreement and the trends in fish stocks in three years' time at the latest, while at the same time assessing the scope of the fishing rights of the Sámi and the rest of the world. The new agreement must periodically reform the fishing rule. This means that even without an amendment to the actual agreement, the quantities of fish can be changed in line with the evolution of the salmon stock. And finally, the Sámi: I can well understand the impression that it seems common among the Sami people that this is another step in the process of dismantling the Sámi culture, because the Sámi have been hit with a wet rag on their faces over and over again. The ILO Convention on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples was to be ratified but not ratified. During this Parliament's reform of the Metsähallitus Act, the rights and views of the Sami people were ignored and the same was done when changing the mining regulations on gold mining. It is therefore no surprise that the Sámi feel that Teno's new fisheries agreement is an attack on the Sámi culture, especially when the Sámi have not been properly consulted during the negotiations. In order to maintain the Sámi culture, it is important that Sámi also be able to participate in traditional activities, including fishing. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also found the fisheries agreement problematic in this respect. In the future, the Sámi's right to practise traditional forms of fishing depends on the place where they live, but the Constitution does not bind each other's place of residence and the right to practise their own culture. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore called on the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to examine whether it would be possible to give the Sami people greater rights to traditional forms of fishing. The committee did not find a useful way to do this, because the electoral list of the Sámi Parliament is not public and it is optional to apply for it. The Greens will come to the second reading of the law to propose a statement which, in the committee's report, would better safeguard the rights of the Sámi and the constitutional right to language and own culture. The implementation of the rights of the Sámi who live elsewhere has also been hampered by the negative attitude of Norway towards the fishing rights of those living elsewhere. In Norway, fishing rights are tied to living on a riverside farm and making hay less than two kilometres from the riverside. A solution that would better safeguard the rights of the Sámi could be, for example, that, first of all, in the future, separate fishing quotas should be agreed for Finland and Norway, which each country would share according to its own decision, and, secondly, that Finland should reserve its own quota for the Sámi. The delimitation of those entitled to it could be based on the fact that, in practice, the majority of those enjoying fishing rights who live elsewhere are Sámi, when the Sámi electoral list is apparently not a demarcation criterion. In this way, the right to traditional fishing methods could also be restored to the Sami people living outside the territory of Teno. This can be done in the context of a review of the functioning of the agreement no later than three years after its entry into force. Mr President! I attach great importance to the amendment proposed by the committee to Article 2 of the Act on the Implementation of the Fisheries Agreement. The amended article states that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry must comply with the obligation to negotiate under the Sámi District Act in further negotiations between Finland and Norway. Therefore, in the course of further negotiations, the Sámi should not be ignored when taking further steps. Finally, I believe that there is also a need to strengthen fisheries control in Finland's Lapland. My husband and I have spent several summers hiking on both the Norwegian side and in Finnish Lapland, and I noticed that fishing on the Norwegian side is much more closely monitored. In Norway, for example, no fishing authorisation is granted unless there is a certificate of disinfection of fishing gear. On the Finnish side, disinfection of fishing gear, i.e. preventing the spread of salmon parasites, rests on the conscience of each fisherman. The fact that a fishing hiker meets a fishing supervisor is also much more likely on the Norwegian side than on the Finnish side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u70	Mr President! On the question: The Tenojoki Agreement faces a number of conflicting interests. I believe the starting point is similar: Teno's weakened salmon stocks are to be safeguarded and improved. The agreement has been negotiated with Norway for quite a long time. The negotiations on the agreement have been prolonged, and Finns have also used high-level political diplomacy to bring the agreement to our satisfaction. I'm afraid it hasn't worked out. Norway is firm on this issue. In view of Norway, Finland is at a weaker point of departure, just as the tops of the upper teno have so far been at a disadvantage than the lower one. In public, the debate is covered by the question of the rights of the Sami people. How are different constitutional rights and environmental sustainability achieved? These things are colliding now. The seine fishing will stop at Teno. Other forms of traditional fishing are also subject to restrictions, but they remain. The restrictions are extremely burdensome for the Saami. This agreement is difficult, not only for safeguarding the traditional rights of the Sami people, but also for the municipality of Utsjoki. The tourism industry of the municipality of Utsjoki is very important. In view of the growing potential of tourism, the agreement raises quite a number of concerns. Of course, it must be acknowledged that all tourism entrepreneurs do not have a large share of their fishing tourism, but it is very important for certain entrepreneurs, and especially for smaller businesses, which only operate on a seasonal basis, this is also a fatal issue. A very big thing from the point of view of the agreement is also the right of the Sámi who live elsewhere to fish in Teno through a traditional chain of rights inherited by the Sámi. With the agreement, this would no longer be possible. This is very regrettable and, as the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have pointed out, it also has a clear impact on the survival of Sámi culture. However, in my view, the greatest threat to the Sámi culture — apart from the disappearance of salmon — is in fact that the Sámi are constantly moving away from their countries of origin. Maintaining living conditions in the Sámi region is the most important thing of all to preserve culture, language, livelihoods and traditions. They do not survive in the same way outside the Sámi region. So the question of the Tenojoki Agreement is wider: how do we secure the conditions for living the only indigenous people of the European Union, precisely in their own region, in the Sámi region? I think it is very important and necessary for Parliament to make statements in the agreement that negotiations with the Sámi must be continued to strengthen the original culture, and also because of the follow-up to the agreement. If fish stocks recover earlier, it must be possible, as a matter of priority, to look at and change the problems that the agreement now leaves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u71	Mr President! When I was fishing in Teno many summers, I once wondered if all the fish caught should also be taken to the beach. Gradually, catch and release thinking that the fish is caught but released free back into the water has become more common among actual enthusiasts. In particular, if fishing is carried out on an unwieldy hook, the damage to the fish can be substantially reduced. If we were to sell fishing permits where this catch and release is possible, but the absolute requirement would be, whether dead or alive, to return to the water, then the mortality of the stock could be substantially reduced. For the national economy, keeping salmon raised from the Teno River seems quite challenging, because there is quite a lot of so-called Norwegian bag salmon on the market that goes anywhere else to many people, even Teno salmon. But from the point of view of tourism, the impact of salmon on the national economy is probably more than 100 times that of what it is as food fish. The Mörrum River in Sweden, where salmon are fished in a few ten kilometres, has created a significant number of job opportunities for the local population. For some reason, however, in Lapland this possibility for entrepreneurs has not been used to the same extent as I think it would be possible. It is summer work and would be quite suitable for people who work in ski resorts during the winter. Thus, the annual workload would be sufficiently high for the individual. It is also interesting to see how salmon fishing has been developed throughout Finland in terms of increasing the national economy and creating jobs. There are still traps and nets in the mouth of the river Tornion, which are, I hear, unrequited, but which could be bought. Perhaps the same applies to fishing rights and fishing rights on the river Tornio. Interestingly, the Kalix River, which follows the Tornio River on the Swedish side, is a free salmon river. Real estate prices along this free, significant salmon river amount to between 5 and 10 % of what real estate costs along Teno. Between EUR 10000 and EUR 15000 a major villa on the shores of the Kalix river is located along water and sewerage lines, where the population is shrinking and there are extra homes of this kind, the market does not seem to be working properly. The whole fishing industry in Finland is overemphasized along the Teno River. It is everyone's choice, but there are other opportunities in Finland to develop and get jobs, at least summer jobs, for those who need them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u72	Mr President! If this agreement is adopted, we must help the ministry, or wherever it is, to decide immediately how to make this agreement work in practice. First of all, we must ensure that it provides the resources to manage the sales of permits, to manage boat registers, to direct the locals. Secondly, we must ensure that research is made work, that is, that new sonars are put into action immediately. We need to make the coordination of investigations work properly very quickly. Thirdly, we need to get the rules and the impact assessment to work and move right away, so that if we already seem to be out of business in the summer, then we will be able to put the situation right. In accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, we must try to change these various points. Fourthly, the completion of the Fisheries Compensation Act must be carried out. Fifthly, Section 10 of the Fisheries Act must be able to change Sixthly, the municipalities, the Sámi and entrepreneurs must be helped to cope with the effects of this agreement. So we have to work. This agreement must not only be left alone in such a way that it has been adopted, but we really must help to ensure that all these essential issues can be followed up and we can move forward with this, because it really is a big and important matter for the Utsjoki municipality that we have to take this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u73	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 1/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u74	Mr President! In brief on this amendment to the Environmental Protection Act: It is very nice that we have managed to get this de-bureaucratic issue moving so well. Here again, there is a good example of how to bring about substantial changes, albeit small ones, but this will help the practice and the environmental authorisation procedure so that there are no unnecessary permit issues and that we will, for example, get certain agricultural construction issues moving and certain business patterns to work without further delays.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u75	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 2/2017 vp, the annexes to the protocol referred to in the Government’s proposal and then the legislative proposals at second reading will be decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-14-ps-22.u76	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 2/2017 will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
