ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Finance and the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u2	Mr President! The biggest change in the organisation of public services in the history of 100-year-old Finland is currently taking place in the parliamentary process. Several parliamentary committees have been discussing the proposal for the creation of regions and the reform of the organisation of social welfare and health care for a period of two months, and the work will continue intensively in the committees. The proposal already before Parliament contains a proposal on how funding based on the organisation of social and health care, rescue services and environmental health care in the regions to be set up would be implemented. In addition to these tasks, the future regions would also be responsible for, inter alia, regional development and structural funds activities, the promotion of economic activities and tasks related to the use of regions, agricultural administration, holidays, regional road management, water operations, construction management, the cultural environment, regional identity and cultural promotion. In addition to municipalities and joint municipal boards, tasks are being transferred to the regions from Ely Centres, TE Offices and Regional State Administrative Agencies. In total, tasks are transferred from the administrative branch of eight ministries. It is proposed that regional funding should be based on comprehensive state funding. Funding will be allocated primarily to the provinces in the form of universal but also separate funding. The Regional Finance Act is directing the allocation of global funding. In the case of global financing, the province may decide on the use of the funds and the allocation of the funds to the various tasks of the province. The proposal we are debating today complements the proposal for a financing law to cover the financing of non-social, rescue and environmental health tasks. The regional funding system would therefore cover all tasks transferred to the provinces. A Government proposal under discussion will include in the Regional Finance Act a contribution of approximately EUR 1 billion to the other tasks of the Province. The financial allocation criteria are based on a model covering the main criteria for the operating costs of the provinces across the country. 26% of the funding would be allocated on the basis of population, 55% to growth services, 17% to agriculture and 2% to population density. With this government proposal, the share of global funding allocated by the state to the provinces would rise to around EUR 18.5 billion. In addition to general funding, the regions would receive separate funding for certain tasks. For so-called other tasks, separate funding would amount to around EUR 2.9 billion. The total, i.e. global and separate funding, would be more than EUR 21 billion per year for the regions, compared with the total of the state budget of approximately EUR 54 billion. It should be noted that regional calculations of the level of funding are highly sensitive to operational changes. The figures of this Government proposal and the figures of the Government’s proposal already under discussion in the committees are based on a budget survey collected from municipalities on the costs of 2017. In the final analysis, the financing of the regions is to be determined on the basis of the average cost for 2017 and 2018. The draft regional financing law already under discussion in the committees includes a financial limit on reducing the increase in social costs. The limit will support the objective of curbing cost growth of EUR 2.8 billion by the end of 2029. Such a limitation is not proposed for financing other tasks in the future province. In order to support the transformation of regions and the transition to the new financial system, a specific discretionary financial item is proposed for a transitional period. It can offset the impact of the change in the financial system on individual regions. Discretionary funding would be available during the transition period from 2020 to 2023. Mr President! This supplementary proposal also includes a provision to be added to the Act on the Enforcement of Social and Health Care and the Rescue Department to abolish the recovery of state aids already under consideration by Parliament. The aim is to ensure that, as a result of the effects of the reform, the municipalities or joint municipal authorities would not be unduly recovered from the state subsidies granted to the premises concerned. Mr President! Here is a summary of how we are completing the draft financing law. The proposal complements the Regional Finance Act to cover all the tasks of the Provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u3	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. It has also been proposed in the Regional Law to provide for the transfer of tasks other than social welfare and health care, rescue services and the environment and health care to the provinces, and this list is quite long. I have already had a debate with the Minister on this issue, which I would like to raise in this debate as well, because one, quite small in itself, but quite significant in my opinion, is out of this list. I would like Parliament to consider adding it to these so-called voluntary tasks in the provinces. It therefore concerns the operation of recreational associations. All in all, we have nine regional recreational associations in Finland, which are operating under the current provincial governments and regional government. Now this new law does not recognise such activities at all. These are therefore not purely nature conservation operators, but, above all, organisations related to the rights of everyman and related to recreational activities, which acquire such important areas for municipal residents by means of everyman's rights for the use of all nature sports. The State has participated in these land holdings with significant contributions. First, the provinces collect a certain population-based contribution, and then the state supports these by 3-50% of the purchase price. I would now like to see this continuation of recreational associations added to the list of voluntary activities in Parliament when these laws of the provincial administration are being discussed, because at the moment different administrative costs are being prepared in the provinces in order to ensure the continuation of one important activity, which is small in itself, but important. I do not think that makes any sense at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u4	Madam President! The Government has submitted to Parliament a proposal to supplement the Regional Finance Act with regard to tasks outside social and health services. The proposal is important for the Prime Minister's Party. As a result, the new administrative step, which is built on the regional level, will receive its responsibilities and funding. Of course, social reform is also important, but it is the city centre's favorite child. In the Government's proposal, Parliament's budgetary power would be significantly reduced as the provinces gain more decision-making power in financing the tasks transferred to them. Even if, in essence, the financial responsibility would remain with the State and the State budget would determine the total amount of global funding to be provided to the provinces, the provinces themselves would still be allowed to decide how to use the funds. The central problem of the governance model, which is built on the regional level, is reflected in the differences between tasks and funding, the separation of power and responsibility. The State is devoting substantial funding to the decision-making powers of the provinces. There is nothing wrong with self-government, with knowledge of local and regional issues. It is a principle that is based on the organisation of municipal services. However, there is a significant difference: municipalities are responsible for at least part of their funding. They carefully consider what the money collected from residents is spent on. The new provincial government spends state money. There is a danger that it will become unmastered and unmistakable money. Another turning point between power and responsibility is obvious. It also has to do with knowing the area: The regions will be able to decide on matters relating to employment and the economy. However, they do not accept responsibility for the consequences. Mr President! What I would particularly like to draw attention to is the impact of the universal financing model on employment services. Labour services will be transferred to the provinces, and the risk in this respect lies in the fact that labour market measures may be less sensitive to the economic costs of unemployment, since the costs of unemployment benefits are borne by the state. Add to this the fact that the so-called growth service factor, Article 18, determines the level of funding received by the province, depending on the level of unemployment in the province. Instead of transferring the funding of employment services to a general funding model, the funding of labour market policies should be kept more firmly under government control and should be earmarked for the regions. The proposal therefore leaves open the question of how to ensure that regional differences do not arise when the regions themselves are allowed to decide on the use of these appropriations. Mr President! The financing model proposed by the Government is clearly intended as an interim solution. It is already unspeakably evident from the fact that the level of funding is not sufficiently checked, that there will not be sufficient index increases. Perhaps it is one kind of savings law, one that transfers responsibility to future governments, or the system is set up in such a way that we will eventually have to return to the idea of their own tax law. There would be advantages in county taxes, good and bad. They would increase the link between decision-making power and financial responsibility. On the other hand, they would increase the tax rate without a visible, good reason. In any case, it would be honest to tell us where we're going. This law is temporary and is based on politicisation, not so much on regional development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u5	Mr President! This bill is about so-called non-site services and a huge change in funding for their services. The responsibility for financing remains with the state, but Parliament's budgetary power is shrinking considerably. In future, only the total funding of the provinces would be allocated in the state budget, the parameters of which would be laid down by law. Then the county would decide for itself where they want to spend the money. This proposal raises a number of questions. For example, what is the reason why we want to decentralise the implementation of non-site services in the provinces, when the government itself estimates that it will increase costs and require new centralisation solutions? The main risk of a global financing model is that regions use less resources for non-site services than the state currently uses. In the regions, the aim is likely to be to invest in social services and other services threaten to be neglected. I am particularly concerned about the future of employment services. This concern has also been raised in many expert consultations with the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. It is noteworthy that the state would not have the tools to influence the funding of labour market policies in the future. It is also worrying that the current model, in which the State has been able to allocate additional funding to active labour market policies in the context of cyclical situations, is being removed. Add to this the insufficient index increases in the imputed funding of non-site services and the risk that the wage subsidy paid from the unemployment benefit item of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will be completely eliminated, and the lack of funding will become a major problem. If activities such as TYP continue to deteriorate, become more difficult or even disappear altogether, we will soon be in a situation described by Professor Mikko Mäntysaari, where the fight against unemployment has been turned against the unemployed. Indeed, the government's many other proposals on the management of unemployment are moving in this direction. A major question mark is also what motivates the regions to invest in active labour market policies when the costs of unemployment benefits are financed by the state and by social insurance contributions. Similarly, tax revenues are collected by the state and municipalities. To top it all off, regional funding would depend on the number of unemployed people. The issue of the low level of incentives to reduce unemployment will not be overcome by the imposition of fines on labour market subsidies. The motivation for employment in municipalities is at least the growth in tax revenues at the moment. Mr President! This bill is a good example of us taking too big a step forward. Soon no one will understand what is being done and what the consequences will be. It would have been much more sensible to carry out the social welfare reform first and then proceed to the regional reform. A completely new level of government is now being created, bringing together a variety of issues that are not well-coordinated. This could be one hell of a mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u6	Madam President! I consider employment services to be important, but at the same time I am surprised at this debate on the decision-making powers of the provinces. Almost every day we get to read in the papers and hear expert opinions from elsewhere, criticising the fact that the autonomy of the future provinces, the power of decision-making, is very narrow. And at the same time, when we go over different issues, such as employment services or social affairs in the committees, we are criticising the fact that, in terms of equality between citizens, the decision-making powers of the provinces are becoming too wide-ranging. I think we should be aware that, if and when we are creating a provincial self-government, this self-government, just as in the case of municipalities, includes a certain degree of autonomy which can lead to and in practice lead to different situations in different regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u7	Let's go to the debatt for a moment. These are the people who have asked for more answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u8	Mr President! There may also be a decision-making situation where both the options described by Mrs Zyskowicz are true. In other words, there are things in which the province really does not have independent decision-making powers; it acts mainly as a central government payment office. This can rightly be criticised, among other things, on the basis of what researchers who have devoted themselves to the self-government of the provinces and municipalities in general have done. And then, on the other hand, here on the employment services side, there is genuine concern that when funding is the same money that can be used elsewhere, will it be that these employment management tasks will not be carried out because money will have to be used on the social welfare and health services side, while there will then be expenditure ceilings in relation to total funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u9	Mr President! It is also a question of equality. It is questionable in terms of equality if there are very different services in the provinces. For example, if you think of the long - term unemployed now, you may receive education, various forms of support and guidance in one province or another. So I ask the Minister: has there in any way been any thought of such minimum services that could be secured, regardless of the person living and the long-term unemployed in any province, that it would not be completely under the jurisdiction of the provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u10	Madam President! When the process of social and regional reform started, everyone had a clear objective of increasing equality and equality between people. Now, however, a reasonably strange situation is being created for the provinces, where they have the right to decide only on expenditure but not on income at all. Therefore, the province must not decide on its right to tax, the province must not decide on borrowing, not on investments, but the decision-makers in the province must do their best to determine how the money received from the state is to be directed forward and for what purpose. Of course, the concern that has already been expressed in this Chamber that equality is not going to happen but, on the contrary, inequality may get worse is a fact. We are going to have very different provinces where different purposes are served, different things are being done. The big concern is that when the funding is general, there will be no money available for employment services when the hip cuts are taken care of. How to secure it in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u11	Madam President! Of course, it is clear that the best model would be to have a provincial tax that the province itself would decide on, but as we move on now, there is no way of doing so. I hope we'll find out later. Then we will have legislation that gives the unemployed as well as all the other inhabitants of the province certain rights, and that is something that the province must respond to. I am surprised that the Social Democrats are criticising this financial model. However, this is a way of strengthening the autonomy of the province when it receives the lump sum, and when the provinces are different, the decision-makers in the province, the democratically elected decision-makers, will then be able to stress the needs of each province. And I assume that employment is everyone's goal, a good, high employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u12	Madam President! I have to say that with rather conflicting emotions this is accepted when there is only one element in the toolbox that should then take care of the various problems in different provincial structures, and in that sense equality is indeed at risk. Of course, it is clear that each province, in its own right, will then decide what is most important, and it will be managed by the elected governments of the provincial government with political power. Is it at the heart of our desire to take care of our elderly people as well and as honorablely as possible? Are we at the forefront, however, of the fact that employment is one of the most important things that will also finance these care services for the elderly or, as Mr Järvinen said, hip replacements? Yes, we are quite at odds with how equality in Finland can be achieved with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u13	Mr President! I drew attention to a small but very regionally important detail, namely island transport. Currently, the Ely Centre of Varsinais-Suomi is responsible for organising island transport throughout the country, and according to this proposal this responsibility would now be transferred entirely from the state to the provinces. It is also known that 90% of all island traffic takes place in the region of Varsinais-Suomi, so I would prefer that this responsibility for organizing be given to the province of Varsinais-Suomi as a whole in the future and that the State would then provide the necessary funding to maintain the current service level at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u14	Mr President! In his speech, the Minister assured us that work on the implementation of the Regional Law and the Law on the Organisation of Social and Health Care will continue intensively in committee. Well, that's good, 'cause all the schedules are booming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u15	Mr President! I understand the concerns expressed here, among other things, about the management of employment, but this universal funding is also part of self-government. I do trust the provinces in many ways. I do not know the province where there is no concern about the management of unemployment in the province. I do believe that the province itself knows what is better for its own province, much better known than here in the Ministry. But with regard to this financial concern, what is the case, Minister? After all, now that this financial system is in place, there is now a very active way of monitoring how this funding is going to respond to the needs of the provinces? And how sensitive are we to react to potential financial deficits?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u16	Let us take Mr Viitanen, Mr Lindtman and Mr Uotila, and then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u17	Madam President! The previous speech rightly asked how to prepare ourselves for the situation in the provinces where these resources are sufficient. It's really a real worry, which we've been talking about a lot. The second thing that has been discussed in this Chamber before is the concern that has arisen, which is that, in this situation, there is a great risk that the employment services will actually be deprived of sufficient resources. Everyone understands that the management of employment, all active measures, are also absolutely essential if we are to be able to secure these services in the future. That is why I really think that this is a big, legitimate concern, and I would like to see it analysed in greater detail at the head of the government. It is quite clear that when there is a certain amount of money and it is absolutely necessary and necessary and right to take good care of social and health services, then if, under the guise of it, the sum of many reasons is that there is no longer enough room for sufficient activity in terms of employment management, then we are in a very difficult situation. That is why, President, I do not think that this concern is insignificant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u18	Mr President! I'm sure we all agree that in all the provinces, of course, all future provincial decision-makers are concerned about employment and I'm sure the heart is on the way. But the problem with this proposal is that it now actually sealed the fact that, in future, the management of employment in this country will remain at the mercy of the market. Under this government, backed by the tough line of the coalition, this country is running out of labour market policy, centralised agreements that could coordinate, coordinate fiscal policies. Labour policy has been a way of balancing the cycle. Now it is being taken out of here, and it becomes totally dependent on these social costs. We will no longer have a cyclical component, no tools to prepare ourselves for difficult cyclical situations, but the only way is to adapt. The only flexibility here is adjustment. This is a market man's dream. The decision-makers will no longer be able to tackle unemployment during this term of government in such a way as to have an impact. The only way is to adjust.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u19	Mr President! It is true that, if labour services are market-based and privatised, it will be a very central part of the Nordic welfare model and its mutual division of responsibilities. They speak beautifully of the self-government of the provinces. There is no real autonomy when there is no right to tax when there is no economic independence. The size of the provinces is just... Espoo is the second largest city, some of the city districts in Espoo are the same size as the smallest provinces, not to mention the size of the region of Uusimaa. In other words, this whole regional reform is a torso overall, and it will only come about as a result of such a cow trade. It is so sad, and now, in the expert hearings, it has flashed that when the money runs out of the smallest provinces, then there is forced accession. I don't know how many provinces we'll have in ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u20	Minister Vehviläinen, no more than 5 minutes, and then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u21	Mr President! Of this criticism by the opposition, I am perplexed by the criticism, on the one hand, that Parliament's budgetary power is shrinking and that decision-making is going there in the provinces, and, on the other hand, that the regions do not have sufficient autonomy. This is a little difficult to reconcile. But then I say to this question of equality: we have 295 municipalities in mainland Finland, and they are currently also responsible for organising social and health services, partly producing and then funding. And when we talk about equality, it can be said at the moment that there is no equality. It is certainly quite clear that wider shoulders are needed for this job, so that all citizens can be provided with social and health services in a decent way. Then I will say about this financial issue: When you listen carefully, it is social, rescue and environmental health care of EUR 17.5 billion, and that funding is very much based on the THL criteria, that is to say, it is the majority. Most of the task of the provinces is this social service mission, and so it must be — it is so important. But then there is this funding for other tasks, which I have just told you about, that one billion is going to be covered by the general budget, and three billion is going to be left here in separate items, and that is what we are talking about. I really want to say that, here in Parliament, too, we should have more confidence that in the provinces and regions those decision-makers are thinking of the interests of their region and province and they are familiar with the specific issues with which they feel that their own province can start to grow — even if in Lapland tourism, which has started to grow properly, or what the bush in Varsinais-Suomi is overall. Could we, here in the national Parliament, be confident that there will be a better understanding of the specific issues in which we can move forward? And this has to do with this growth service issue. You know that the Growth Services Act is the content law which contains more specifically the content of these employment services and growth services, business-related issues. But I strongly deny that Parliament and we here will no longer be able to influence the financing of employment services. We have a state budget and, as I have just said, for the time being, at least these provinces are going to move in such a way that they are financed by the State, so it is also in our hands here, how much of that funding is being given to the employment services there. Then the question of whether the long-term unemployed or the less well-employed are left to their own devices: Of course, we still have legislation, substance legislation, and in the same way that the organiser of the war is a province for these labour and growth services, the organiser is a province. That is the responsibility of the province, and here again I think that there can be no more important task in the province than trying to get as many people as possible to work. It is quite clear that this is the way we should think. Then I will say something about this when the word 'non-sote' was used here. If I can say so, then I do not think it is a very good term, because it defines these other important tasks, such as employment services and road maintenance and these other tasks, only in relation to social welfare. It's not like that. They are important tasks, as we all know overall. Östman asked me about these icts. I would like to repeat what was said in the half-way. In other words, the overall framework for this period is around EUR 900 million, plus a capitalisation decision has been taken on the social-ict development company to put 90 million in it. A decision will be made on this in the coming weeks, and it will enable big investments to be made overall. This whole is very important, and each of us understands that freedom of choice and this system of social services cannot function until the information systems function properly. Mr Korhonen then asked how to react to the need for funding. With regard to the proposal that you are now debating, you will see that it is talking about a transitional period of five years: what does that mean then at this year's level, when we have calculated that funding for five years at this year's level? And I would stress that you should be careful not to rely entirely on those financial level calculations this year. The financial statements will be revised several times before they are in the 2019 figures to be made on the basis of the average for the years 17 to 18. And I would stress that we are prepared for the transitional period with this discretionary funding, and that is important because no one wants any province to get into a bad situation right away and not be able to carry out those tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u22	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u23	Mr President! The elephant is usually eaten in pieces, but now it seems to be hawked with one hawk, and there is a big risk that some of the activities will drown and choke on this mechanism. On the social side, we have quite strict legislation that tells us what service people must be provided and what the rights of their customers are. But if the Act on Growth Services is implemented, it means that the majority of our Labour Services Act will be dismantled and there will be a free field where the provinces will be able to decide what services they will purchase and order and what services they will provide for the unemployed or for job-seekers. There is a great risk here when, at the same time, a law is adopted at national level requiring the unemployed to either get a job for themselves or participate in active measures, and if you fail to find active measures or work, unemployment security will fall. But at regional level we do not have legislation that obliges the province to provide these active measures. From this point of view:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u24	Madam President! The regional financial system will certainly have to continue to develop, and this law and the legislative package in no way constitute the last word on this issue. However, I think it is contradictory that, at the same time, too little decision-making power is being complained about by the provinces and, on the other hand, the fact that services in different provinces will be slightly different and people will find themselves in different situations. This is self-government, isn't it? If here, like Mr Järvinen, more self-government is required, then increasing and strengthening self-government means more different situations for different people. This is how it works in the provinces and how it works in the municipalities. For example, we have basic cultural rights on the part of municipalities, and of course we know that school conditions in different municipalities are very different, but this is due to the autonomy of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u25	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz compared this regional reform with the autonomy of the municipalities. This is the megalomantic difference in implementation that the State will decide on the ceiling for regional expenditure and declare that, apart from the fact that the provinces do not have their own income base, they will not even be able to get into debt. By means of this cut-off procedure, the State shall ensure that expenditure is not exceeded. And that, of course, leads to the concern that, if the expenditure ceiling is met, it will result in the failure to guarantee the current minimum services, which, according to the current system run by municipalities, are to be managed. And this is the other way around. When there are things that are not on top of health, such as the management of employment, municipalities may come to the point that, when there is no regulation as to what these employment services are, then they will be eliminated. Unfortunately, Mr Zyskowicz, as incomprehensible as this problem is, this is exactly the problem you have managed to bring here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u26	Madam President! Self-government is different. In Finland, we also know, for example, the self-government of Åland, and I think the Sámi people have some kind of self-government in some areas. So I did not actually equate the autonomy of the provinces and municipalities. Of course I do, and I know that there are many differences. I pointed out that the idea of self-government leads to people being in different situations in different units, in these self-government units. If we take municipal self-government today, we know that in some municipalities health centres cost nothing and in others they pay, we know that some have different high schools, some have no high schools and so on. And yet it is a question of cultural fundamental rights. In exactly the same way, the self-government of the provinces will lead to different practices and situations, and this issue will not be resolved by it or resolved by their right to tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u27	Mr President! What is essential is that at the moment, however, we have a minimum set of services, most services provided by municipalities, which the municipality must meet. We even have the norm on how to treat the elderly, which service level should be minimum. However, it is also being criticized as to whether it is sufficient. But in this new system, the problem is that the state is putting this cap on compulsory expenditure and then the mystery remains as to whether the new provinces will survive in such a way that they can at least guarantee this current minimum level for members of their own province. And it has rightly been criticised and there are legitimate concerns about this. I think it would be wise to acknowledge that this concern is justified. It is not just that the opposition is playing boogeymans, because this criticism is mostly and most strongly expressed by experts, most recently in the recent Helsingin Sanomat, where this direction of the government was severely criticised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u28	Madam President! A little surprised, however, we must listen to this criticism by the opposition, particularly with regard to the employment issues associated with this reform. During the previous government term, record-breaking cuts in central government shares were made from municipalities, regardless of the vast variety of statutory tasks related to the management of employment. I would like to ask: where was your concern when these operations were carried out? This regional reform is an excellent reform. This is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. This will transfer power from central government to provincial decision-makers. Decisions are taken there closer to the people, and just as Mrs Korhonen has rightly said, universal funding is part of self-government. It is quite clear that this financial system must be monitored, as Mr Zyskowicz said. I'm sure this won't be ready, but we're moving on, and that's what's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u29	Mr President! However, the big picture of our criticism is that, in our view, this big reform should have gone ahead with the reform of social welfare and health services, and this other than social welfare, let us now call it non-war, should have been carried out in a controlled manner and all the effects carefully assessed. What is of particular concern now is these employment services and the way in which employment is managed, especially for the long-term unemployed. That is because, President, the province does not have sufficient financial incentives to deal with unemployment. First of all, unemployed people in the province receive their unemployment benefit from social insurance and the province does not bear any responsibility for the costs. But the other side is: the province does not collect taxes either, but all tax revenue from the province is charged to the state or municipalities. Therefore, the province has no interest in developing and improving employment in its region, and this concern is quite justified by the fact that active labour market policies are lost, and there is an economic justification for this. That is why we in the opposition hope that these resources for employment management will be earmarked.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u30	Madam President! Local and regional self-government has been based on the principle of subsidiarity, which brings decision-making as low as possible to the level of municipal taxpayers and hence municipal decision-makers. Now we in the Committee on Administration have been able to hear about the legislative reforms that are pending, and although I am not referring to this consultation, I can refer to the media data, as Mrs Heinäluoma did. The concerns of experts about this self-government or municipal self-government are true and genuine. How can you speak of the province as a self-governing area if the province has no tax rights, no public sector, state service centres control expenditure ceilings and so on? What, Minister, do you think about the parable: regional self-government as a concept sounds almost as beautiful as in some Communist countries the democracy of the people? Two beautiful words, but it may not be possible to combine the concept of democracy that we locals have.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u31	Mr President! Of course, I must say that this proposal is not perfect and needs to be raved. Of course, this funding, the provincial tax, is an important part of self-government. It is to be welcomed that there is now a very clear support here on the part of the opposition for the fact that, in future, the provincial tax is a model that needs to be introduced. But there are also many other things involved in this self-government, including in terms of funding this general coverage. The provinces have a provincial council, regional elections, the right to decide on the organisation. The regions have a contractual mandate, freedom of contract, the opportunity to do their own development work. The provinces also have general powers, as long as this does not conflict with the decision-making powers of the municipalities. In other words, there are also a great many elements of this regional administrative reform that are characteristic of self-government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u32	Madam President! That list, as Mr Korhonen put it, lacks an essential element in addition to this funding, and it is, of course, a general competence for the province to decide what activities to do, whether to do them together with the municipality, whether to do it alone or how. This is quite significant. It is nice to be able to share the money that a pot can get in your hand, but the big picture and the big problem here is if you can't even determine what the need is, because the need is supposed to change every year as well. And once you put that 3 billion-dollar cutter on the social side, it will certainly put pressure on these other sectors. I don't understand. It is nice that the calculation formula is different and the indices are different from the row and with this other activity, but then when there is a general budget, then of course it will be cut out. And depending on the political power of the province, it may be that somewhere there is a greater appreciation of the environment, another more than employment, the third than social media, and it will then be visible regardless of the need. Question to the Minister when you mentioned this
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u33	Mr President! I stayed to think about this employment, and so that the problems do not end, however, this transitional situation usually affects these centralised labour market policy solutions that have been made in municipalities: there are centralised kitchens, real estate management and everything about this kind of thing. When these are separated from the group, which moves to the provinces, it will then cause immediate negotiations, and during the negotiations on employment, this kind of support employment — these are the places where the subsidised people have been used — will be prevented. This is undoubtedly going to be such a situation that during 2018 this whole use of employment appropriations will collapse at a time when the long-term unemployed will not be able to get jobs and have no jobs, thereby weakening our employment rate, and the government's objectives will also be weakened at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u34	Mr President! With regard to the financing of these external tasks, it is also worth noting that the decentralization of the implementation of these tasks from the existing state agencies to all 18 provinces is threatening to increase costs, and this funding has hardly been taken into account. After all, the government itself states in its own papers that ensuring the management of these tasks has required a number of centralisation solutions and that, when tasks are transferred to the provinces, there is a need for further centralisation solutions for the effective performance of several tasks. The question then arises that, if the task now is to decentralise all the extra-social tasks that have now been carried out by state agencies, 18 provinces, this will probably increase some costs and the money will then be out of the way again, and in order to keep these cost-cutting costs, then we will have to concentrate these services again at some point. It would now be good if the Minister would answer how this has been taken into account in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u35	Madam President! Representative Kärnä here earlier was concerned about the role of municipalities in growth and employment services last season. I would say that I am very concerned about this proposal this season, because now that the responsibility for organising is being transferred to the provinces, it is clearly stated here that it is intended to shift mainly service production to market-based production and the role of the province is quite last-minute. This, in my opinion, ignores what the municipalities today have in precisely these growth and employment services, what know-how there is, what motivation there is, how precisely they want to work in the municipalities to ensure their own tax revenues so much for growth services, employment services, especially these good municipal trials, which have involved these multi-professional teams in helping the long-term unemployed to find employment. In what way in the future will the municipality be able to play a part in these? Does the municipality have to set up a limited liability company — it does not have any commercial logic — in order to be able to provide growth services there, for example, under the province?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u36	Madam President! It is currently the case that the long-term Article 51 of the state budget has a specific budget. For example, two years ago, the last budget of the Rinteen—Ihalainen had been rated so that the budget ran out in May and then we had to see how the rest of the year was going to be. Officials in ministries prepare and ministers decide on the allocation of the appropriations by ely-regions. Is that democracy? That's not gonna change, is it? It is now being divided into regions where democratic decision-making is based, and this is how we move in a wise direction. I am deeply surprised that the Social Democrats have a terrible fear of democracy and a strong love for bureaucracy. Let us now gradually change your view of democracy. Responsible decision-makers will come to the provinces, and then the things that are seen to be necessary will be dealt with. There is also a method for it if the appropriations are exhausted, how it will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u37	Mr President! In recent times and in recent weeks, criticisms of free democracy and party democracy have come mainly from within the Finnish Parliament. But, Mr President, first of all to Mr Kärnä: if you were so concerned about the cuts in state participation, why are you cutting more state subsidies? And in addition, you cut the regional index, so you can say that you cut the state sections of the provinces. Because that is the case, let us not try to give an overly rosy picture. On the subject of this expenditure on employment, this is an example of why employment policy is part of economic policy. As a result of the enormous work of the opposition, the government refused to implement the Ringe model, but even agreed to implement the fact that this year and next year unemployment benefits can be financed from the unemployment benefit item of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in order to make unemployment security expenditure available for active use. Now this is no longer possible. So when what you just glowed is a great tool, now you break this tool. True Finns leave employment management to market leaders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u38	Then Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u39	Mr President! Firstly, yes, it is exactly as Mr Heinäluoto pointed out that there can of course be no right to take up debt if there is no right to tax. I'm sure all of us now understand that they go hand in hand. But then, in this debate on self-government, I am sure that the Committee on Administration has also heard a lot of experts about it, and who are not on the Committee on Administration will be able to get to know Professor Siv Sandberg's extensive article and article on what kind of regional self-government is being seen in different countries. When it comes to tax law, you see, only Sweden in Western Europe has its own territorially comprehensive tax law. In Norway, the tax law, its tax level, is decided by the Norwegian State. It's not very self-governing. In addition to tax law, self-government is a question of whether there is a direct election, what is the level of decision-making anyway, what is the scope of the matter, whether there is a so-called general sector of activity or whether there are the tasks laid down by the law, and whether there is, for example, some sort of supervisory power in the municipalities. Well, that's probably not what any of us want these provinces to have. Self-governance is not quite an unambiguous question, that everyone can paint what it means, a little bit of what it means. I still strongly deny that the regions are willing to take responsibility for this employment issue. Nothing is more important to the province than having a good employment rate, that is quite clear. What is the ultimate question? With responsibility for organising social services in the provinces, what is more important than being well-being people who are able to work and need less and less social services? I think this is quite simple. Mr Paatero then asked these discretionarys whether it was out of the whole. As I said just now, it is intended that discretionary will be used for the first time in 2020, of course it cannot be used before. We have tentatively assumed that it would be taken from this whole within the system. But as I said, it will be decided when the 2020 budget is decided, and that is when it will be decided whether to take it separately or within the system. Then again, Jonah Räsänen asked about these other tasks, whether the costs would increase. Well, many times it is true that, at the beginning of the reform, the costs associated with the start of the reform will come when the systems are put together, and even though this digitalisation will surely increase the costs. But everyone understands that in the future, in the longer term, when we make reform work, it is, of course, more reasonable to have one organizer. It can be used jointly and not, as is currently the case, that these tasks, which the future provinces are doing, are currently being carried out in 400 different organisations. So, yes, the cost will also fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u40	One last comment to the honourable Members, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Mr Kärnä, Mr Filatov and Mr Zyskowicz, and then we shall continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Concerns about the future of labour market policy are still justified, although I listened to the Minister's answers, because this general coverage means that if more money is spent on social welfare and health services than calculated costs, less money will be spent on labour policy. It is not a question of the will, but of the fact that if we have to invest in different things with that existing money, then I am afraid that the services of the long-term unemployed will be reduced first. That is why I asked what I did not receive an answer to, whether it has not even been thought that there would be a minimum level of services for the long-term unemployed, that in every province certain types of services would be secured even for people who do not know how to demand and have certain specific service needs. I also ask why municipalities cannot continue to provide services for the long-term unemployed. Would it not have been possible to think of this because the municipalities have an interest in organising them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u42	Madam President! First of all, I would like to welcome with great joy the interest that the opposition has now expressed in the area of regional taxation. It is absolutely essential that this model for funding now also be thoroughly investigated and seen if it can be moved to it in the future. I would remind Mr Lindtman that this government has been determined to strengthen local government finances. You can order those calculations from the Municipal Association, for example. It is clearly shown that we have been able to correct the mistakes made by the previous government in its cuts in local government finances. But one thing distracts me, and that is that the opposition is now talking beautifully about implementing the principle of subsidiarity, but at the same time we are calling for earmarked funds for employment, for example. So now, ladies and gentlemen, you must decide whether you want more self-government or more central government, whether you want subsidiarity or whether you want the principle of remoteness, because you cannot have both.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u43	Mr President! To the previous speech by Mr Kärnä, active labour market policy has never been the responsibility of the municipalities. Legally, it is the responsibility of the state. During the last period, it was moved and experimented with municipalities, which produced good results, and municipalities introduced new models that have helped to reduce long-term unemployment. Now we are dismantling those models, and this growth service law and the reforms that have come from this side of the world lack many financial indicators that have made municipalities work in a way that has reduced long-term unemployment and has made our social and health services and employment services work better together, for example. The fact that, for example, the Regional Law or the Growth Services Act spells out beautifully that a cross-cutting service is needed for the unemployed does not happen if we have a social welfare centre owned by one stock exchange company on one side and employment services provided by other companies on the other, but if we need those financial incentives. Even municipalities became more interested in long-term unemployment after the payment of incentives for labour market support,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u44	Madam President! Representative Kari recalled the old and spoke of popular democracies. The only thing I can say on this subject is that democracy and democracy have as little in common as, for example, a chair and an electric chair. But if we talk about today's subject, I do understand the concern about minimum regulations for these various services. Of course, these content laws exist in different sectors, and it is up to the national legislator to set certain minimums, as is the case with social services, if necessary through these content laws. But I am still confused by the contradiction that, at the same time, the opposition is being called for to be more self-government, such as tax law and the general sector, and at the same time there is concern that, when the power of decision is transferred to the provinces, it will lead to different situations in different provinces. This is an essential part of the idea of self-government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u45	Let's continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u46	Madam President! In this consultation and discussion of the matter, there have been many good new changes to the priorities of the contributions, and they have balanced the fears that at least in the Uusimaa region, where it was discussed whether this would cost so much to increase the shares in the municipalities of Uusimaa, especially now the big cities of the capital region, and so on. They have now changed in a good way for me, and thanks to the Minister for the fact that they have really listened to those concerns and it is shown here. I would have pointed out that this is 'the regional impact of the financial bases', and it is stated in the last paragraph of the last paragraph of page 15: 'The change in the financing of the region would take place on a staggered basis during a transitional period of five years'. I would like to ask: once this funding has been phased out, has it been thought here that the transfer of certain services to this new province would have been more staged than what part of the text can now be found here? So if these go hand in hand, I'd ask. Then here on page 16 there is this fall in the level of funding, which is a fall of 3.4%. This is where you think that when this is calculated to 2017, what is the idea here. How fast is this opportunity to react if, in this heat of reform, they are going to run out of this money while providing services? If the funding does not work, it will then become extra pressure. Then I would have asked about this stage where we are right now: There is this so-called pre-financing, and at least at the moment – and the Minister is certainly aware of this – we are concerned that the money is not enough to prepare for this. Is there any change to this now, according to what the Federation of Uusimaa has said, which is now planning this whole change in this huge area, and there is going to end the money right at square one? Even then, on the fourth point, I would like to ask, since it has now become clear that the ict funding seems to the experts to be a little inadequate, and then this window of time for these changes, which should be implemented by the beginning of 2019, has been closed. So even if all these other elements are settled, then it seems that in this change and coordination of ict systems, and so on, the time window is closed. Is there going to be a transitional period for this, so that it is possible to reach a goal somewhere in Finland with this change? These kind of sincere questions rose now in the first stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u47	Madam President! This large package, which all eight parties went on to do last season, included social and health care services. Social and health care services have been those that have been concerned for a long time, and I did not understand at any point until a few months after the government programme negotiations, that we were talking about multi-diversity regional associations or regions, and suddenly, to my surprise, there was talk of municipal vacation services, ely centres services, avi services, which means that somehow there is a feeling that at the same time we want to confuse all these things. Social and health care services, which are therefore a massive transfer to the provinces, are in itself such a great exercise that I would have liked to have focused on it and managed it properly and only then started this other turmoil. Another common problem is that managing this whole in this house is understandablely difficult because these come in pieces. I understand that very well, because the package is so large that the first thousand pages and subsequent pieces of it and then separate legislation on freedom of choice are so large for the government, ministries and Parliament. But when such an overall picture of this would have made it easier for us to focus on the whole issue of Parliament, all parties agreed, that is to say, to change the organisation of social and health care services on larger shoulders. But now we're doing something else. As far as I am concerned, when dealing with these pieces, I say it out loud, and it is also unreasonable that, when these laws have come months late in this house, then we will receive criticism from the government party and even from the Prime Minister that the timetables should be kept. It is unreasonable for the Prime Minister to criticise all the Members of Parliament who work in the committees in which these matters are being dealt with, with a great deal of effort listening to hundreds of experts, trying to fill the gaps in this legislation that have undoubtedly remained to be filled. But then to the actual subject. In my opinion, self-government cannot be discussed if there is no possibility of determining the need. Of course, municipalities have the right to self-government in terms of funding, but it has to do with knowing how much money is needed for education, social welfare and health care, road maintenance, construction, infrastructure, everything, then we think about where and how much of it can be obtained from which side: whether we have to borrow, what is the state contribution, how much tax revenue is collected? And now, in this model, it cannot be done, but rather it must be done so that there is a lump of money and then it is stated where it can be distributed and where it cannot be distributed. It is quite a big like this thoughtful change, that is, not determined by the need and need through the funding, but according to what happens in the budget. That is why, in my opinion, at this point, it is a rather apparent self-government element that divides the given pot. Then to the criticism of why we social democrats have a particular suspicion that some sectors may be left with less. It has to do with the fact that there is already a 3 billion state-owned cutter written on the social side, and there is also an index cutter written on this part of the province. Then there is the exclusion of agricultural subsidies, road maintenance and the financing of European Union funds as earmarked funding. These are out of there, so the sector from which it can be reduced is narrowing down. On the other hand, when we know that these social centres will receive their funding mainly on a capitulation basis, i.e. automatic funding, they cannot be changed. On the other hand, we know that there are a lot of subjective rights on the social welfare and health care side, restrictions on how services are to be provided to people, and those sectors where there is no subjective right are largely part of the labour administration or environmental protection, so this is not a malicious saying, but realism for all of you who will be the provincial decision-makers if this sum is fixed in advance. And then to this question, which Mrs Räsänen has already raised. If we now have services operating in nine or five elys, or if we have, for example, an example of island transport, joint services, we are now breaking up to 18, and then the answer is that we are working together, but the money and staff are first cut into 18 points, then the efficiency that comes through this way — I do not know what logic, because the same parties have now partly been in the governments to make this reform, that they have been combined. At the time, the argument was that larger entities should be sought, that one province should not only be viewed on the side of a business or someone else's side and that there is only one official doing them, but instead seeking larger entities, stronger decision-making, better knowledge. And now we're canceling this. That is also why I do not understand how, at this point, we were forced to disband this in terms of openings, elys and other municipal tasks, since we were supposed to be in the process of social reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u48	Mr President! A few words about this self-government and democracy. I think in that way that in municipalities, when the councils decide on the basis of the legislation we have at national level, where money is put and what amount of money is put into, municipal citizens, when they vote, will be able to signal whether they are willing to pay more taxes in order to obtain wider, better and better quality services, or whether services are reduced. But now that we are on the side of the provincial self-government, there the voters who vote for decision-makers in the county council do not have this opportunity to export the message. They have the opportunity to communicate what obligations are prioritised, but the decision on how much money there is to organise them comes from elsewhere, and this becomes, in a way, the conflict in which you have to wrestle: the needs are great, but then the rule on how to finance it comes from somewhere else. That's why it's a little awkward. It is with this concern that, when a certain lump sum prioritizes services from the point of view of citizens' messages, I do believe that rollator marches will arise if the services of the elderly are seriously reduced. If health services are not in moderation, people will react strongly. But when you come to the services of the most vulnerable long - term unemployed, there is certainly no pressure on customers to provide these services, because these people do not have the resources with which they, as it were, communicate that need. Sometimes these needs are even resisted and it is felt that 'let me be at peace and do not try to help me into the labour market', and it is a matter of concern that when we prioritise spending money, that priority will shift somewhere else. I fully believe, as Minister Vehviläinen did, that there is certainly a desire in the provinces to take care of employment, employment in its own region. But I find it very difficult to see why, for example, in the interests of Kanta-Häme's provincial government, a certain amount of money would have to take care of the availability of Päijät-Häme's workforce, if it were to be the result of someone else's. But the government has had this interest because the government has had to take care of the entire labour market, and that is why I believe that the role of the government as a whole in labour market policy is important. Concerns about the relationship between these social services and, for example, the employment services are related to the fact that I myself have lived during the time when municipalities were not interested in the long-term unemployed. I have even had discussions with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities with regard to the fact that the obnoxious Minister, Mr Filatov, wants to delegate responsibility for the health care of the unemployed to the municipalities, and I have had to ask him that since when it was not the responsibility of the municipalities, because it was the social services of the unemployed, the social services of the unemployed. But through these financial institutions and various experiments we have had an interest in dealing with the services of the long-term unemployed, and this has been brutally linked to the fact that it is a question of tax revenue. This is about the costs that will arise on the social side if long-term unemployment is not taken care of. It has also been a question of the proportion of local government labour market support that has created this incentive. And now, in this province model, there is no such incentive, and that is the big worry. There should be those institutions that encourage the long-term unemployed to be taken care of, not just the workforce that is, as it were, in favour of the interests of businesses. And another thing. I believe that everyone in this Chamber will agree that the TYP concept has been effective and has helped things move forward. There has been Kela, there has been a social welfare and health service, and there have been employment services. At that time, when this began to be built, the government tried with various steering mechanisms to make social services and labour administration and Kela work better together. More stringent regulations were written in the laws, but nothing happened. Only then began to happen when separate service points were set up, where these three forces had to be, and even at this point someone was always trying to skate away. Now that has been legalized and has been made to work and produce results. I know that no one wants to deliberately lose this concept, but there is a great risk that it will disappear if there are no financial incentives that force those social welfare centres and private employment services to work together to produce results for each other, because it comes to the same situation that if two separate companies make results as if by their own means, then it may not be interested in helping to produce the result of the other company unless there is an inspiration there. And to this cyclical policy. When the provinces decide how they spend money, the risk is that when you are in the most difficult situation, there will also be a difficult situation in that province in providing these other services. Will active labour policy and activation of the unemployed then be emphasised? This would require state instruments, so that labour market policy — education, paid employment and other measures — would remain one of the instruments of economic policy to prevent open, prolonged unemployment, because we all know the unfortunate consequences of this, for example, following the previous recession, when one young generation was left behind in such a way that its employment rate was lower than in the longer term. It would therefore be sensible to give labour policy to municipalities, where people are, close to them, by sub-regional level, because it is still up to the municipalities to implement it. In the case of young people, if we have schools, workshops and many other actors there at municipal level, it would be reasonable for the services of unemployed young people to be fully collected in municipalities and sub-regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u49	Madam President! I would have asked the Minister about this abolition of regional agencies, when there is now quite a lot of legislation directly related to the tasks of these regional agencies. I would have asked: does the Minister have any idea how many laws will now have to be amended as a result of this, that these regional agencies will run out?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u50	Mr Kari, then the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u51	Madam President! To the Minister, I would like to underline the question that Mr Paatero raised earlier in his speech. In other words, when this timetable for dealing with these laws is extremely tight and the whole legislative package comes in pieces and this large umbrella of legislation for this whole social welfare administration is huge, over a thousand pages of draft laws and so on, how do you, Minister, see this Parliament's legislative powers now being implemented on this schedule? We have had an internal security report in this house during the round of the year and many other things that are being heard here for months. How will the opposition be given a proper opportunity to pass through these huge pieces of legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u52	Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u53	Mr President! In fact, I shall just go back to what Mr Kari said. First of all, Parliament will decide and do in that order and take up the time required for the work. That is clear. You are well aware that it is all I can say as a long-standing Member of Parliament and as a member of the committee. I am extremely aware that this is a very wide-ranging whole and that many committees are working in this sweat hat. I welcome the fact that this so-called Regional Finance Act is now under discussion, that you will be able to look at this whole thing. But then I will also say that if I personally look at this, I am well aware that when we gave this as a government, there was a delay of many months, that is, we did not keep to the timetable set. But you also understand that this is a large and difficult whole, that it was not quite easy to do this, of course. I would like to say that what I am concerned about is that the preparatory work in the provinces can move forward. It also came here in the speech by Mr Laukkanen that we have different regions in very different situations, and Uusimaa, which has a very large population of 1.6 million, is particularly demanding. In some other provinces too, the preparatory work has not been quite as quick as in others. Now that we had an amending budget last Friday, we will be allocating EUR 22 million for this year to the preparatory work for the provinces, and not only then when the interim administration starts, but we will be able to provide funding for that preparatory work in all the regions already in July. That is the last thing I have said yesterday with Mr Harju on this matter, that we are dealing with it in such a way that the provinces are already receiving funding from the state from now on in July. This is extremely important. My concern is how this implementation can be carried out and carried forward in the provinces as a whole. Then there was a reference here to this other legislation that still exists. You know what this whole thing is. In a week's time, this legislation on Åland will be linked to this status of Åland, the financing. They bring it here like this, then there's all the financial laws. But then these presentations of the province’s other duties will be on the table until 19 June. That presentation will be here in August-September, or I think it should be here at the end of August, so that it will be ready by then, all in all. I think there are about 220 laws, two thousand pages, but as you know, there are also very technical changes. The big law is the Creative one, that is to say, that we are putting together the licensing and control tasks of the state as tasks of the national agency, as we currently have six regional government agencies. The big substance law is the Act on Growth Services, and I fully share Mr. Filatov's view that it is the actual substance law and it changes these issues of growth service and employment services. It's on its own. But there are different laws here, and some of them will indeed be technical changes. Of course, the most important thing is that these fundamental laws are to be adopted — the provincial law, the law on enforcement, the law on social security and also the law on freedom of choice relating to this society — that the whole thing can be adopted and then we can move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u54	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate, but the draft Act on Growth Services that we now have in our hands is going to dismantle almost all the services that the unemployed have been offered. Let us assume that it is very far-reaching at local level to determine what kind of service it is. Here is the good news that then professionals can use their own expertise there are no artificial limits preventing the provision of a particular service to the customer who needs it. And there is also the good thing that it might make possible that if more social and health care services are needed, both the customer as well as the customer will be thrown on that side. But when, from the point of view of the availability of the labour force, it is essential in future that we also get a labour force on the market that cannot get there on its own terms, then the concern is that, in this financial model, this group — when they are not subject to subjective rights to services, as we do on the social side of the labour market — will be left behind as if it were in the head and their services would be taken care of if money were left in this mechanism. That is why there would be a need for financial incentives, mechanisms that, in a sense, force its future province to take care of this crowd, as in due course the municipalities have been forced to do with money and everything else — or it is said that a little evil and money, when it was not good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u55	Madam President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for a good debate. You can see that the Minister is, as it were, sitting on his own business and feeling and ruling this. I noticed that once these comments had come, agility had also been added to this, i.e. the weight of the contributions to state funding and the return to them was transferred to be regulated by a regulation, which was a good change, and it allows for a rapid response. Another positive thing when I considered this adequacy of funding, for example for Espoo, which is a pretty big city in Finland, was that these averages had been selected for these mechanisms, which were then supplemented in real time by the data collected by Statistics Finland on local government budgets. This would allow this funding to succeed, as long as everything is set in motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u56	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u57	Madam President! The Regional Surveillance Act currently in force was drawn up at a time when the starting point was that the territorial integrity of Finland would be violated by foreign states and military forces carrying the military identification of foreign armed forces. So the law was drawn up in case of quite traditional threats. According to the Criminal Code, regional violations can be committed by soldiers from foreign armed forces and by captains of a foreign state ship or a state aircraft — that is to say, by vessels from another state and by planes from another state. The security situation has changed significantly in recent years, unfortunately for the worse, as stated in the Foreign and Security Policy Report and the Defence Report. In the illegal takeover of Crimea, as in Eastern Ukraine, unrecognized but clearly organised state armed forces and instruments have been used which are comparable to the soldiers of a foreign state. However, it was difficult to identify the underlying State operator in the absence of external characteristics. Such action is likely to cause confusion in the target country. It tends to slow down the state’s decision-making capacity. We are talking about a large-scale systematic diversion, a phenomenon known as hybrid action or hybrid warfare. Distract and distract, the idea of a hybrid war in a nutshell. With this in mind, our Regional Control Act has stated that there is a so-called hybrid to go through or a gap between so-called green men. This hole should be closed. The Regional Control Act needs to be clarified. It is important that our legislation is up to date. It should provide authorities and policy-makers with the necessary criteria for solutions even in difficult situations. Mr President! We've got to shut down the hybrid loophole. It is therefore proposed to amend the Regional Surveillance Act to include a military threat that cannot be directly identified due to, for example, missing military codes. The main two legislative amendments are as follows: Firstly, according to the draft law, the powers of the Regional Surveillance Act could also be assigned to a non-identifiable military group. The draft law proposes to add a completely new definition of a non-identifiable military group to the Regional Surveillance Act and to clarify the definition of a military vehicle. Secondly, the Regional Control Act would provide for an absolute ban on such groups to enter and be in the country. This would be criminalized by criminal law. All in all, it is a question of changing regional legislation to reflect the current security situation and the threat picture. Mr President! Finally, there are no changes to the decision-making system. Under the law, in extreme circumstances, a command could be given to use military force against unrecognized military groups. It is in the interests of the Finnish State and its citizens. In part, this bill is part of a whole in which the government is determined to improve the credibility of national defence in a changed security environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u58	Madam President! Dear Minister and fellow Members of Parliament! Thank you, Minister Niinistö, for presenting a good point and, above all, for the fact that, as things change rapidly during this term of government, reforms have also been made and rapid reforms have been undertaken. As the Minister said, the world security situation has changed rapidly. During the last parliamentary term, these changes began — perhaps as some sort of artistic point can already be spoken of as the year 2008, but no later than the post-Sochi Olympic era — and since then there have been many things happening in the world. In addition to this, the events in the Arab Spring, which are partly reflected in these changed and modern threats, from which we have received sad news from the world today. There is still no precise information on what is happening in England, but it seems that they are also about organised terrorism. So we have a very different security situation than we did in the past. New types of threats and new types of measures are also targeted at national security. Cyber is one whole, then these hybrid threats, which are now being answered, the green men and so on. In early 2014, Russia used these so-called green men, who had no IDs, to take Crimea from Ukraine. At first, these soldiers were claimed to be on vacation in Crimea. It is therefore time to reform our legislation in this regard, too, in order to respond to the changed security situation and new types of threats. A number of these measures have been taken under the leadership of Minister Niinistö. The decision-making arrangements of the legislation on the reception of international assistance and the provision of assistance are currently being discussed by Parliament. The response capability of the troops has been improved. The intelligence legislation is being reformed and many other pieces are being put in a new position for time and the current security situation. Thus, the amendments to section 7b of the Regional Surveillance Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code are now under consideration. This is, therefore, about the fact that the bill is intended to fill a gap in the size of the hybrid threat, that is to say, the size of the green men, in our current law. The proposal proposes to amend the Regional Surveillance Act to include a military threat which cannot be directly identified, e.g. on the basis of military codes. The provisions of the Penal Code on regional violations would also be amended to cover these green men, i.e. unrecognized soldiers. Thus, in the current Regional Control Act, a soldier refers only to a military uniform, an armed or non-armed person belonging to the state armed forces. The starting point of the law has therefore been more traditional, that a foreign soldier uses the symbols of his state and is clearly identifiable as a soldier of the state he represents. In this new proposal, it is proposed that force measures should also be used throughout Finland for a non-identifiable military, military or vehicle belonging to them. The Regional Control Act would therefore complement the law, in particular with this definition of a soldier. In future, forces could also be used for attackers who cannot therefore be directly identified on the basis of external characteristics. According to the Government's proposal, a non-recognizable military group would be a military force comparable to a military department from the point of view of the Regional Surveillance Act, acting on behalf of, on behalf of or with the consent of a foreign state, which is militarily organised, armed or armed and of which the state origin cannot be identified. The law would provide for an absolute ban on such groups and a ban on their presence in the country, the violation of which would therefore be criminalised in criminal law in the future. In future, therefore, the powers of the Regional Surveillance Act could also be assigned to non-identifiable military groups throughout our country, while the responsibilities and tasks of the authorities remain unchanged. Mr President! It is important that this too should now be put in order, in the position that our changed security situation requires, and this will certainly be dealt with as quickly but thoroughly as possible in the Committee on Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u59	Madam President! The Regional Supervision Act is necessary in the situation in which Finland is currently in place. The security environment has changed, as Mr Niinistö and Mr Heinonen have said. Finland must also react through legislation to the security threats that occur in the environment, whether they are hybrid threats, cyber threats, non-identifiable soldiers or entities or vehicles, this way away. Legislation has to live in time. One thing that also applies to the Defence Forces and internal security — not quite directly to this law, but nevertheless to safety — is the issue of drones. The situation at present is that anyone without any age limit, without any special training, can go and buy a drone and fly it in practice wherever he wants, even though Trafi has done the instructions, but few of those instructions are likely to have been read because there is no registration or justification for the use of these devices. Near airports the allowed height is 50 meters and elsewhere 150 meters, and now last Sunday the doctor’s helicopter in Pirkkala nearly ran into a 400 - foot [400 m] drone. It is not only a patient in danger in a helicopter, it is also in danger of helicopter staff and outside citizens below. I ask the Minister: do the Defence Forces have needs in this regard and do they have legislative projects, and how do we take this matter forward? For example, I know that Niinisalo Arrow 17 had seen drone operations of this kind — to a small extent, however, but had been seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u60	Mr President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The crisis in Ukraine revealed new kinds of threats and practices. These include, for example, unrecognized troops with combat equipment, armed civilians and organisations built up for the transfer of power. The stages of the crisis can progress very quickly and the fight against so-called hybrid influence may prove challenging. In Finland, these threats are combated by the Border Guard, the Defence Forces and the police. When the threat becomes real, it becomes the first problem to define it. Is it the responsibility of the police or the Defence Forces to deal with the problem? If persons armed with weapons are unrecognized, the matter is a matter for the police under the previous legislation. It may prove that these are trained special forces and that their intervention is part of the first phase of a large-scale operation. In this case, the defence force would actually be responsible for dealing with the problem. The challenges facing Finland relate to the launch of countermeasures and the speed of decision-making. There is a huge risk if the firepower and unknown threat is left to the police until the real nature of the threat is revealed. The speed and effectiveness of countermeasures are therefore crucial in the fight against the threat. The Government, together with the President of the Republic, has the responsibility for decision-making under the Act of Preparedness. The flow of correct and adequate information and slow decision-making are challenges for us. The change now being introduced will answer these questions well. The President of the Republic has repeatedly discussed this matter with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have also taken the matter forward by written questions, among other things, among the parliamentarians. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for Defence for the haste, as this has progressed at an excellent speed. In recent days we have seen serious situations again in international fields, where we are constantly facing new forms of violence, the most recent kidnapping in Afghanistan and the unfortunate terrorist attacks in Manchester. I hope that the Ministry will carry out a wide-ranging study of our range of instruments and continue its good work on updating the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u61	Madam President! There is an extremely necessary legislative proposal in our Parliament at the moment. The topicality of this matter was already before us in 2014, about three years ago, when the reality described earlier by the Minister and described at the bottom of the bill took place in Crimea when the so-called green men, the unrecognized soldiers, arrived. Since 2011, I have been allowed to act in the Administrative Committee and in the Defence Committee, both as a member and vice-chairman. The reality of this hybrid warfare, as it were, seeking a weak seam, has already met itself in this parliamentary work. There is a gap between defence and internal security, i.e. civil authorities, in this part of the hybrid effect in which this soft interface exists between two different actors. When the Minister is here, I would like to ask about the UN Charter, to which the Minister has rightly referred: the definition of the concept of aggression adopted on 14 December 1974 includes the state and, here in one point, the other group of actors, which may be difficult to pre-determine, 'a state or another force that sends armed forces', will be included. How, as Minister, do you see in this committee hearing whether we should be able to describe this hybrid reality even further than the image we have had in this parliamentary and preparatory debate following the events in Crimea? After the reform of this legislation, do we still have an order and a need for a deeper debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u62	Madam President! This bill shows that Finland takes seriously the changed security situation throughout Europe. This proposal also reflects the agility and speed with which certain flaws have been sought after the last defence statement to be put into practice quickly, and it is great that it has been promised here that it will also be dealt with quickly in committee. It says: "The reports state that Finland must closely monitor the military capabilities and intentions of operators, particularly those who affect our neighbourhood, in terms of safety. According to the Defence Report, defence is being developed to meet the increased requirements of the operating environment. In addition to traditional military threats, Finland is prepared to respond to more complex threats that combine military and non-military means." Now that we are all reading in the papers about those events last night in Manchester, all we have to do is discover that Finland can be careful about its own internal security and external security to avoid such atrocities. We all know that there are about 300 people in Finland who are under constant observation and monitoring in order to avoid these similar acts. In fact, it is also a matter of thanks to the Government and the Minister for Defence, who is very concerned about your affairs, that you are constantly up-to-date and that this legislation is also being updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u63	Madam President! As far as these people are concerned, aircraft and ships have already been involved in legislation, and now people and vehicles are being brought here as well. That is probably very well-founded, but the question is, of course, how this cooperation with police and border control is going, because I would assume that in these cases, which has been widely referred to in this debate, the situations of terrorism and so on, there has been hardly such a lack of recognition of armed forces, compared with the Defence Forces. Yes they have been more like individual people who, for a reason or a third, have done such unpleasant and really shocking things, and that is why I think it is the first point that is yes to the border control and the police that should be involved in them, and that is why I am a little bit asking here at the same time how this cooperation or also the powers with them go because the powers have been increased. Then, to this more general picture, of course, that, now that we are increasing powers, we have added to the police, in a few places border control and now to the Defence Forces, it would be nice to know from within the government what else, because, for my own thinking, it does not only improve the general sense of security for people, but in general it requires more countries to participate in international agreements, strengthening them, implementing them, more peace negotiations, more development cooperation, more bilateral interaction and, in fact, much better protection of our peaceful and Finland's own independence. That is why these two questions are raised: how are police officers and border control, and by what other means, by peaceful means, will people's sense of security be increased?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u64	Madam President! This government proposal is very good and worthy of support. Changing the regional control and criminal law to the same level of time is a very good thing. It must be remembered all the time that security conditions at our borders and in general in Europe and also throughout the world have changed dramatically. We must be prepared for all the risks that could be our threats in the future, so that when that potential situation is ever emerging — hopefully it will never happen — we must have a legal basis in place, because the authority can never act otherwise, his actions must always be based on law. He must not go on to write in a new situation that whether or not he would do so, but when the legal base is in order, it is precisely these unmarked soldiers and possible military vehicles that are being prepared for them that this law is being changed. It is very good that the Minister of Defence has taken this issue seriously. This has, as I understand it, come within a reasonably fast timetable, which will also send a message from us from Finland to others, to our neighbours and to the rest of the world that we are ready for the situation that this present world has led to. It is no one's fault, but it is the wisdom to prepare and then, above all, to create a clear background for our authorities in the Defence Forces and the Border Guard and other authorities, with which they can act if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u65	Madam President! The rapporteur, Mr Paatero, pointed out these soft means alongside this, including international agreements and, of course, matters affecting internal security, such as education, social security and this type of thing. They are very important, but, of course, we must remember all the time that these international agreements are not always respected by all parties, as has been seen here in 2014, for example. Had the Geneva Convention and other international agreements been complied with, we would not have seen unmarked soldiers where we have seen them. In that sense, of course, I agree with Mr Paatero's view on such a general level that, from the point of view of internal security, a unified state is to be taken care of. No country has been attacked since World War II, which is internally unified. A people who feel worthy of defending their country must be held fast in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u66	Madam President! Just now I didn't have time to bring everything up or ask the minister. These hybrid gaps need to be filled with new legislation, that is how it is, and it is good that this work has been undertaken. However, when this government proposal has also raised this position in Åland and the end of this point in Åland is that "the proposal is not considered to be incompatible with the special status of Åland" and so on. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister an assessment of this sovereignty of Åland and of the UN Charter which I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u67	Mr President! I would like to express my thanks to Minister of Defence Niinistö for this good bill, which continues to improve Finland's security. The military threat has also expanded in recent times to measures and measures that we have not been fully prepared for in the past. This invasion of Crimea in 2014 showed that military activity can proceed very quickly and surprisingly so that it cannot and cannot be sufficiently prepared by traditional means, even though we have the Defence Forces well trained and have a good will to defend the country. Other measures have also been taken and prepared by the Ministry of Defence. They can further improve Finland’s security. Mr President! As I understand it, a preliminary study has now been carried out as the basis of the law governing land and real estate acquisitions in areas that are important for defence and security of supply. During the last term of government, there was a lot of discussion about the influx of many strategic defence areas into foreign ownership, but only the present government, and especially the Minister of Defence, Niinistö, has done a lot of work and has made a very commendable contribution to preparing and responding to this issue. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence when the draft law on these land deals will be coming to Parliament. Indeed, this would significantly improve the operating conditions of the safety authorities compared to the current ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u68	Minister Niinistö, three minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u69	Mr President! First of all, thank you for your thanks and for the constructive referral. Mr Heinonen gave a very comprehensive overview of the content of the draft law, and I agree with his wish for a speedy examination of the proposal. Congressman Kiuru asked about the drones. This is a topical issue. In the case of drones, the legislation really needs to be revised. As far as the defence system is concerned, the problem has been recognised and action has already been taken. I have already set up a project on last year's side in which the legislation on drone operations and generally unmanned aviation is to be developed from a safety point of view. The aim is to prevent unauthorised operations in the Defence Forces' targets and to ensure the safety of military aviation in the so-called lower airspace. Hopefully, in the near future, I will be able to present legislative changes to Parliament. I agree with Mr Elovaara that a clear division of responsibilities, but also a smooth cooperation and exchange of information between authorities, will ensure the national capacity to respond to various threats. Mr Kari referred to the UN Charter. I have allowed myself, on behalf of our Legal Service, to tell myself that, according to its wording, Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations does not require an attack by another state. The exercise of the right of defence requires that the scale and impact of the attack be consistent with that of the state armed forces. The lack of identification has no effect on the lawfulness of the act. This is certainly something that the lawyers in committee should ask more, as well as this position in Åland, but at least the interpretation of our lawyers was that this legislation has no change in the position of Åland in international law. Mr Paatero wondered more broadly about how to use the means against regional offenders and what, for example, against terrorists, if I have understood correctly. It is, of course, the starting point that the Defence Forces do not have jurisdiction in matters of public order and security, but that they are legally responsible for the police, which can be supported by the Defence Forces on request, and the scope of official assistance is always decided on a case-by-case basis. The representative, Mr Savio, referred to this possible ban on land and real estate trade or to the reservation of authorisation to citizens from outside the EU and the EEA. After all, this was investigated by the Ministry of Defence, and now the matter is on the way to law-making. This is a challenging exercise that, as I recall, it is a legislative change extending to eight ministries, so it is not a simple matter. But I say that if this matter were the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, it would already be in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u70	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u71	Mr President! Artists are cultural workers, without which our lives would be less colored. The social value of their contribution to the work is significant, and throughout history, artists have immortalized pieces of our nation's phases as part of domestic cultural history. Artists are often not perceived as entrepreneurs, a large proportion of whom are in practice due to the limited number of jobs in the sector. From the point of view of the vitality of culture, the work of artists should be supported, as only a small proportion of them are able to support themselves fully with the earnings they earn from their work. The capacity of people working in the creative sectors needs to be improved by changing legislation to take better account of the specific characteristics of the creative sector. Fortunately, as Minister for Culture, we now have the Finnish author Sampo Terho, who, within his mandate, will certainly promote the position of artists in the best possible way. Mr President! There is much to be improved in pension provision for those who have worked in creative sectors. Artist’s pension has a long tradition in Finland and was already granted in the 19th century. For example, J. L. Runeberg. The aim was to secure the work opportunities of talented artists and thus to promote the production of art. I hope that the number of recipients of an additional artist pension will increase in the coming years. Currently, only over 1,000 people are eligible for an additional artist pension. Consequently, the financial impact of the granting of family pensions based on it is not significant. On the other hand, for many low-income recipients, support can be very important. In my view, this proposal on family pensions, drawn up on the basis of the provisions on survivor's pensions in the public domain, relating to an artist's pension, does not have any negative effects, and there are very clear grounds for reform. It's easy to support a good show. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u72	Mr President! Representative Elomaa well described this situation. After all, we still have a very small full artist's pension today, only a little over EUR 1300, and it is good that it will also be a family pension scheme of this kind. In a certain way, I understood what Mr Elomaa meant by that reference to entrepreneurs. Of course, many of our artists do this, but of course not only can we count on art to be a business in some way, but we must also have the opportunity to do art that is not necessarily so salesy and does not necessarily generate so much income, but also to give something else, and often doing such a larger work or something else may be such a big project that it does not live on its own. Then we need a system for the grant, but also so that after that career as an artist, there will then be authors who may not be able to do their own art in their whole lives, whether they are artists or other artists. Then there must also be a system of this type, and I welcome this fact that this family pension issue is now also involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u73	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-23-ps-58.u74	Mr President! The only thing behind this bill and the report by the Administrative Committee is the proposal to increase democratic decision-making in the Archbishop's election. Therefore, by reducing the number of votes of the archdiocese and thereby increasing the voting power of the Council representatives, it will widen this democratic decision-making process and give its decision-making power to more and more parishioners, which, in my opinion, is a very welcome development in these circumstances and in a democratic society. After all, Finnish democracy has always been based on the fact that every Finnish person, whether elected as a representative in any organisation according to parliamentary rules, must have genuine decision-making power. This report now before us and the government's proposal specifically represent this line.
