ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u2	Congressman Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u3	Mr President! When unemployment comes along, it's really big for a person. Man loses half his income and the work community around him. None of us would want that to be the case. The fact is that the unemployed need jobs and jobs. People who are looking for hundreds of jobs are hoping for an interview and a contact that says, "You've been chosen." Minister Lindström, you promised only a few weeks ago that the unemployed will no longer be bludgeoned or bullied. People took this seriously. Today, however, we have read in the newspapers and say that there is a large package of forced labour for the unemployed, in which the unemployed must, among other things, apply for 12 jobs in three months or receive a double qualification. If a job is not found despite applying, unemployment benefit will be cut. Plus, you make the unemployed report every week. Minister Lindström, are you really planning such a coercive package and such a package?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u4	Mr President! So this is about creating an active model, a model we have been talking about for a long time. This has been fully known that this kind of thing will come. This is in the so-called ten-list, which has been agreed together with the social partners. This is being taken forward, this is going to take a consultation, and then it becomes clear what the model is like. What has been in public is a draft which is certainly not the final model. There has been a draft which has then been commented on and considered as final. This is not the case; this is a normal government proposal, which goes for a consultation and then becomes more precise and then comes to Parliament as a proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u6	Mr President! I wonder what the unemployed were getting out of this answer. It seems very bad that the government has no idea how big this is. The government treats people as numbers, not living, feeling people. People are not going to accept this. Looks like the government wants to pick on the cops and pick on people. Are you aware, Minister, that wage-earners' organisations do not accept the compulsory package and the double carnage? They are also not supported by business associations and are not accepted by the EK either. Moreover, these deteriorations in unemployment security seem to be in breach of the competitiveness pact. Why on earth would they even try to take this thing forward? Would it not be best at this stage, Minister, to withdraw this offensive package and the questionnaire altogether?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u7	Mr President! You don't pull it away when there's no show yet. Like I said, this is a sketch. You said that the government has no idea how the unemployed person feels. I say that the government has a very good idea of how it feels about an unemployed person who does not get a job. That is why we are making reforms so that doing the work, providing the work, is always worthwhile. And that's what this active model is all about. You also spoke of double sanction, double sanction. This has been taken into account in this draft. So we know this isn't what we're doing. This is one thing I have emphasised very much. This concern has come precisely from the social partners. And this is taken into account, and it is written in the paper that has been presented to me. It says "no double sanctum." I know that in many cases it may be that unemployed people feel that what the hell is going on out there is this kind of answer. I've been out of a job myself. I'm saying I know about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u9	Mr President! Activity is a good thing, and a particularly good thing is that the government and the employment services are active in providing services to the unemployed. But both of these active models have been built in such a way that the unemployed person must be active — and this job-seeking obligation, which requires a certain number of working days, so that unemployment benefit is not cut off, that then this online search, where you have to report on the jobs you are looking for — and if you do not succeed in getting a job for yourself, then there will be a toughness. This, in my opinion, has been built backwards. The government must have an obligation to provide those active measures, and if they are refused, then it is understandable that there will be a sanction. Can you, Minister, promise me that this preparation will now be reversed in the right direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u10	Mr President! From the very beginning, I myself have stressed precisely what Mrs Filatov was referring to, that it cannot be that we have a model and then we do not have to provide them with (a) jobs or (b) those services. Therefore, in the mid-term review, 50 million investments for two years — 25 million for 2017 and 25 million for 2018 — were linked to this active model in order to provide services. It is totally unreasonable for the unemployed to be penalised if we do not have services. We are aware of this, and that is why we are also investing in it to ensure that these services are available if there is no work available. In other words, this has been taken into account in these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u11	Are you prepared to include it in the law too, because it is now lacking in preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u12	Mr President! In this Chamber, I have promised and said that out loud, so it cannot be expected that if we do not have services, there will be a sanction. This is my will mode. Well, then, do you want me to put it in the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u13	A supplementary question, quite exceptionally, for the third time in a row, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u14	President! I am sorry, but it is a matter of you entering an obligation into the law for an unemployed person, and if he is unable to do so, then it will result in a degree of severity, but you are not prepared to register in the law without further clarification that the labour administration has an obligation to provide active measures before that toughness comes. This is really about how responsibilities and responsibilities and rights are balanced, and without inclusion in the law they do not balance fairly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u15	Mr. Speaker! I am not going to make any promises about this box until I find out how this will state can be fulfilled. And this will certainly be resolved, so that it will then come through, as I said. I am not going to make any promises from this box that I would then have to cancel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u16	Mr President! Although long-term unemployment has fallen, the number of unemployed for more than two years continues to increase, and it is already known that the longer the unemployment has lasted, the heavier the measures are needed and, in particular, the support measures, no sanctions. A clear question, Minister Lindström: does the Labour Administration intend to move more into employment relations with support measures? Work is best rehabilitated and also secures income after its fixed-term support investment. The fact is, however, that, for quite a few older long-term unemployed people, the only viable option is respectable hospice care for retirement — and the emphasis is on the word 'honorable'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u17	Mr President! In my opinion, Black Lake, well-informed, knows that long-term unemployment goes through such a chain. Fortunately, we have now made the number of unemployed for more than a year turn down, but the number of unemployed for more than two years, or indeed for a long time, is regrettably still high. This is gonna go in a chain like this. With all these measures, which we have done and what we are doing and will do, I hope there will be such a synergy that we can tackle this problem of long-term unemployment. We know very well that this is not just about unemployment but also about people with multiple problems. In this respect, labour-related support measures, in general, all the activities in which that person is actively involved in this society with the resources that he has, are important, and that is, of course, what the government wants to promote here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u18	Mr President! Work is the best social security for people, and it is important that the government has taken this issue of employment seriously and is actively seeking solutions to it on a broad scale all the time. This is important. Today I checked the last set of employment services: 317,000 unemployed job seekers, 123,000 job vacancies. The problem of confrontation still exists. Working life and tasks are constantly changing, you can no longer apply for a job with just a job title. For example, a concrete cuffer may have the kind of expertise and experience that is suitable for any other job. I would like to ask the Minister for Employment: should we now move on to this kind of public competence profile, so that every unemployed job seeker would be given this kind of competence profile, where education and experience come up and not just what job he has done in the past?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u19	Mr President! This kind of skill profile is a good idea. Perhaps this is the part of the answer that there has been a proposal for conversion training, with which we will quickly try to respond to such needs when we need a sector suddenly, i.e. by means of conversion training to get to grips with these problems. Apart from this knowledge and its profile, the attitude is, of course, one big thing. When I’ve been around those companies, it’s often the company’s top priority, for them the most important thing is what the attitude of a person is when he’s looking for a job, not necessarily just that knowledge. I'm sure that as many people as possible will get the right job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u20	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Lindström said very wisely that the longer a person is unemployed, the more social problems, such as coping, can be different. And that's why I think it's pretty inhumane to think that no matter what the individual's personal situation is or where he lives in Finland or what the IT abilities and so on, it would be solved by law like this, if he does not manage to apply for 12 jobs within the time limit. Yes, I would like the government to reflect from this point of view on how this serves the equality of people. And I would also like you to take into account that when a person is subjected to severe suffering, he will have to rely on income support, and poverty researchers say that income support is the most difficult for the unemployed and the poor. It's the hardest part.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u21	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, the aim of this active model and the activation of the unemployed is to make it more effective in the self-employment of jobseekers, active job-seeking, increasing regional occupational mobility and thus away from them. This roughness — I have said this many times — is not an objective, and we are not trying to create a system that would increase the number of carnivals. When I have been presented with this nature, it also says here that probably the number of these roughnesses will fall with this new system — whatever it is in the end. Such a requirement in this draft would apply to one job a week. I think this is a rather moderate motion. This may become more specific here, which is, indeed, after the consultation, it is appropriate to return to the proper, formal proposal that comes here to Parliament, and then, of course, there is a place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u22	Mr President! I think that the government has a very special view of the activation of the unemployed, and I cannot help but think that the underlying idea is that the unemployed do not want to work, and that is why control and sanctions must be used. From an unemployed person's point of view, this is squatting and controlling. What if there is no job or there is no Internet at home or the nearest Internet is far away? Or who will follow these millions of reports as a result of this weekly follow-up? This does not create jobs, but some of the unemployed are driven outside the search for work. The basis for decision-making and proposals is always the values, which is why I ask Minister Lindström: what kind of human concept this draft is based on, and do you understand why unemployed people are now really injured by this draft that has come to the public?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u23	Mr President! I totally understand the injury. Every time there is an attempt to interfere with this system, and every time there is some tightening-up for the unemployed, there is criticism. But on the other side there is also this state of affairs and the fact that we have a problem of confrontation. There must be something to be done about this system. And once again, my values are based on the fact that I do not blame the unemployed for their own position. Most people are unemployed without their own fault, and the government doesn't leave the idea that it's your fault, you need to be kicked. No, we need to change this system so that we have enough money for this system. That is why we have made these changes, and that is why, among other things, we are spending the existing money smarter, smarter than before, so that the money will continue to be sufficient to bear this enormous burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u24	Mr President! The Government's mid-term review also included a report on the study of combined insurance, how to achieve a modern working life that might be combined with work and entrepreneurship at the same time, and thus promote unemployment security. I would have asked the government: how is this composite insurance work going? Secondly, there are good results that long-term unemployment has fallen over the past year. Compared to statistics one year ago, there are over 10,000 fewer long-term unemployed, over 30,000 fewer unemployed, so the direction is the right one. The government has tried a basic historical income experiment, which has attracted a wide range of positive attention in the world. Many of those involved in that experiment have also been employed. What is the government planning to follow up the basic income experiment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u25	Mr President! Thank you for the question, good question. It has to be said that basic income has indeed attracted widespread interest in the world, positive interest. As a government, of course, we are equally interested in what will be achieved as a result of this experiment. Now, of course, the situation is that this has only started in January, so information is being collected at the best time, and then, of course, an extension plan is being drawn up. There is no such model here and now, but it must certainly be based on a sufficient sample, and then there must also be a continuation of what budget, which model. As far as this change in working life is concerned, which the questioner here referred to, part-time entrepreneurship and so on, yes, this is the government's will that the possibility of perhaps being an entrepreneur, sometimes as an employee, is being developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u26	Mr President! I was 14 years old when the New Town Car Factory was founded 69 years ago, and I've been watching it for 50 years. There's been almost a note at the hatch sometimes. At the moment the sun shines, thousands are recruited, looks very good. The truck runs and recruits domestic labour. Vahterus also employs hundreds of people in south-west Finland, Vakka-Finland, as well as the Turku shipyard is doing amazingly well. I'm going to ask you: What has happened there in south-west Finland because there is such a good development there? Can it be transferred to Finland as a whole? And also about the situation in New Town: the housing problem is big there, and the important thing is that the transports are playing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u27	The Minister will answer if he considers that this question is close enough to the original question from which the debate started.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u29	Mr Myllykoski, a supplementary question, and then Mr Ihalainen, a final question on this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u30	Mr President! Fortunately Minister Lindström did not answer it in such a way that once more unemployed people have been beaten in south-west Finland, then there has gone on this kind of positive movement. But I would have asked: has the government considered whether this blackmailing of the unemployed and cutting off these benefits and, let us say, that control will start to activate these unemployed people in such a way that they will have to think about when the tape will be broken? So has the government seriously considered the treatment of one group of people that is constantly being weakened and tightened? Is there not a point where moral values should come — and not explain that we are only active — so that we can now begin?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u31	Mr President! Of course, this is a value-charged question and, in itself, extremely important. Of course, you can say that every time — even the previous government had to make cuts to unemployment benefit, that neither the truth forgot — such decisions are made, they are difficult. I can say that this is exactly what I have meant when I said that I have had to defend the proposals from this box, on which the heart may say something quite different. But when the group has decided to take things forward, let's take those difficult things. And that is how we come to the 10th list agreed with the social partners, where there are good things for the unemployed, but then there are less good things. Labour market organisations have said that it will be easier for them if these good things move forward. I always ask the unemployed person what this looks like. For example, this draft still seems very complicated at the moment and needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u32	One last supplementary question, Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u33	Mr President! Our long line in terms of job creation has been the creation of genuine jobs and training places and services to support them, but equally the unemployed must also be active in seeking jobs and training places. In our world of values, all work is valuable, and this is very important to keep in mind. Now our problem is that we have insufficient funding to manage employment, wage subsidies to provide genuinely those services. Major cuts have now been made to the income security of the unemployed, and I do not think that any further cuts should be made. We should also begin to appreciate the unemployed, the lives of their families and to support their survival through positive measures. My esteemed Minister for Labour, I hope that, in this form, this bill, which is now under preparation, will not be produced here, but will be re-assessed, nor will it be produced by the Employment and Economic Development Offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u34	Mr President! Lauri Ihalainen, a predecessor of whom I very much appreciated, made a wise speech, and I tried to say this, much more clumsyly than he said there. This proposal starts with a draft, then it will be specified and then we will see what it will be like once and for all. I would stress that this is a draft and there are still a lot of unresolved problems, problems, and I am sure that we will have to be more specific. But the active model comes in some form, this is what the government has decided, and what the content is, it really becomes more precise. Let us hope that the opposition can play a constructive role in making that final model.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u35	Next question, Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u36	Mr President! Unemployment continues. The worst of all is the long-term unemployed. They often have health and economic problems, lack of skills and the most difficult situation in employment. But now there are also new threats in the sky. With the long-term unemployed being the responsibility of the municipalities, the future reform of the province and social security system makes the situation a little more so that the long-term unemployed are not really the responsibility of anyone, neither the municipalities nor the provinces. And at the same time, when it is planned that even in unemployment, service providers should have a form of company, it means that all the associations that currently play a major role in the employment of the long-term unemployed are threatening to fall out of this, they will face serious difficulties in the employment of the long-term unemployed. I would like to ask the Minister how you intend to ensure that the long-term unemployed really do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u37	Mr President! Indeed, this growth service and regional reform is still quite open at this stage, what it means once and for all, but in the drafts that I have read, it says that ultimately, if there are no other actors, the province will always be responsible for those services, it will be the province's responsibility in the future. There is, for example, this kind of problem which relates to these so-called fines, which are currently at the hands of the municipalities. We have wondered whether in this future world, in a way, is something like this similar element. This is still open and unresolved — because it is rather complicated — whether the province would, in a way, have the same incentive element. This is still unresolved. But, ultimately, the long-term unemployed are always in charge of that province.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u38	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button. Let us take a few supplementary questions on this, bearing in mind that there was a debate just now under the employment concept for quite a long time. — Mr Järvinen, you have the first supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u39	Mr President! It is worth remembering that the provinces are quite far removed from their individual long-term unemployed and their skills. The association of municipalities, organisations, many associations and experts are really concerned about what is going to happen. This situation is also hampered by the reform of the financial system. At the moment, when money is being directed to municipalities to deal with long-term unemployment and municipalities also have fines, the future situation is that the money allocated to the treatment of unemployment is in competition with health expenditure. And with heart bypass surgery, hip surgery and employment measures for the long-term unemployed on the same line, there is a great risk that the county decision-makers will have to prioritize those heart surgery and hip surgery and leave the unemployed to their own devices. So the hips are taken care of and the unemployed aren't. How does the government guarantee that this will not happen even if and when health expenditure is exceeded?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u40	Mr President! I am not an expert in social services, but somehow I have the impression that these things would not be set against each other so that someone else would be taken care of and someone else would not be taken care of. I don't think that's gonna fit in my mind. Yes, it is its own process of managing employment, and then it is its own. This is how I see it. And, as I said earlier, this problem of fines is not working at the moment. It hasn't worked, because there's been such a problem that in a way it's been able to trick around with the system because the system has found this kind of hole. How to make this work and encourage in the future in the new world of growth services is, as I said, still under way. This is a matter that is still being considered and which model will be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u41	Mr President! All work should be valuable, including work that is not carried out on a voluntary basis in employment, such as in non-governmental organisations. The work that unemployed people do in non-governmental organisations voluntarily plays an enormous role both for the national economy and for many of these unemployed. Well, now that in the regional reform the organisations in which they have been able to operate so far become companies, the unemployed can no longer engage in voluntary non-governmental activities without losing their unemployment benefit,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u42	Mr President! It is a strange and foreign world that is what Mr Kontula was picturing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u45	Mr President! Indeed, long-term unemployment is a major problem in the labour market, as is the lack of labour demand and supply, and the figures mentioned by Mr Jokise — 317,000 unemployed, 123,000 open jobs — speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u46	Mr President! Of course there will be criticism and then constructive proposals, as Mrs Wallin has just done. Yes, the government is open to all smart ideas. Of these figures, it is true that according to the latest figures there are 317,000 unemployed and the number of long-term unemployed 112,000, and I remember that there were about 56,000 job vacancies according to this statistics, which was from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Of course, each one of these statistics can argue whether they are true or not, but on the basis of these statistics I myself am speaking about what comes from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. So, in answer to your question, we are open to all the presentations, but everyone must have a price tag, and they will all be looked at together in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u47	Mr President! Many of the long-term unemployed are involved in NGO activities, and now in recent days the decision taken by the tax authorities, namely that the food provided for voluntary work will be subject to taxation. I would now like to ask the Minister for Finance: Can this be the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u50	Mr President! I understand the concern, and I assume this is about the interpretation of the tax authority. This must be addressed because, as you said, this is contrary to common sense. I'll find out, and we'll get back to you on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u51	Mr President! I will return to this original question by Mr Järvinen, which was concerned about what will happen in the management of employment as a result of these big plans by the government. Today, at the National Audit Office, we have a report on what these plans look like from the Agency's point of view, and now we have to say that this fear of Mr Järvinen is justified. In other words, when the responsibility is transferred to the provinces, a certain amount of money is given to the provinces and, at the same time, the government has made a system in which there will be no more money on the health side if the costs are exceeded and there is also a ban on borrowing and there is no tax law, there is a very high risk that, under these circumstances, when this straitjacket is put here on the side of health expenditure, the management of employment will then be the one that is suffering under this system. And that is why I ask the Minister: have you, as a responsible minister, wondered what this social reform means for the future of employment management on 1 January 2019?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u52	Mr President! Of course, within the government we are also discussing the effects of these huge reforms on one another. My role is, of course, to reflect on what you have just asked: how to deal with unemployment in the future. I do believe that these can be combined in such a way that the service process in the future will be such that the job seeker and the job provider will benefit from this. In our future, these services will be defined in the planned recruitment and knowledge service law, and it will then allow the freedom to organise appropriate and appropriate services and service packages. And the regions must, of course, be guaranteed adequate obligations and, on the other hand, incentives to provide these services to the unemployed. This is in these sketches that have been presented to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u53	Next question, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u54	Mr President! In connection with the spending limits debate, the government announced that you intend to cut the housing allowance. One reason was stated that this could reduce rents. The impact of housing aid on the development of rentals cannot be such a simple conclusion. Among other things, the analyses and statistics of Kela researchers show that rents have risen also in years when the housing allowance has not been increased or when the indices have been frozen. This cut will hit those who pay high rent for small dwellings in the capital region, or those who already have the most difficult financially. The reduction in housing allowance does not lead to an automatic reduction in rents, but it will certainly result in more and more people having to rely on income support to cope with their housing costs. On what basis, the government, the idea that this surgery would automatically reduce rents, and how it is thought to save money as more and more
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u55	Mr President! Provision has been made for more and more people to be dependent on income support. This has been provided for in this decision, which the government set out in the spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u58	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u59	Mr President! I find it quite incomprehensible that the government considers it acceptable and as a plan that more and more people should be dependent on income support. It is a very passive form of support which is intended to be temporary, but at the moment many people have to use it permanently to cover housing costs. The only sustainable way to reduce housing allowance expenditure is to reduce the need for housing allowance. The fact that people have to rely on housing support is due to excessively high rents and too low incomes. Both unemployed and families with children need to apply for housing allowance, but also many employed and retired people. The government has also justified this reduction by the fact that the current housing allowance constitutes an incentive trap for employment. Well, this kind of cut will also hit pensioners, many of whom are low incomes and are already paying for government policy in many ways. So is the government now also encouraging pensioners to work, or is this not the case with the housing allowance for pensioners?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u60	Mr President! Housing allowance for pensioners This decision does not apply to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u63	Mr President! Work should always be worthwhile. Anyone who rises at six o'clock in the morning and goes to the cashier of Alepa must earn more than anyone who does not rise and does not go, even if this unemployment is not his own fault. An incentive trap is a situation where work is not worthwhile. One of the key factors in dismantling incentive traps is housing allowance. It has now been criticised here that the government is trying to limit housing subsidies with the aim of mitigating the incentive traps. No one, Mr Modig, has claimed that rents automatically decrease when housing allowance is reduced,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u64	Mr President! No one has said in this Chamber, as Mr Zyskowicz said, that this solution would automatically reduce the rent level — no one. But it also matters, and there is evidence of it, even though, for example, you, Mr Modig, denied that the increase in housing allowance is going directly into rents — flowing directly into rentals. There's evidence. The third aspect, which in part belongs to the Minister To the brick site is what it's like to live in this country. More and more, we have smaller and smaller apartments, where the basic level of rent is that the person who moves into a new, small apartment has a completely unreasonable level of rent. We need to find ways to influence this situation in such a way that, for example, it would be more possible to work in the future than it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u65	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz here took Alepa's cash register for example. You might want to look at what Alepa’s cashier and service workers are paying. It is not even possible to do full - time work there because the work is offered about 30 hours a week. These working, hardworking young people are those who pay excessively expensive rents for small apartments here in Helsinki, where there are not enough housing and the market is raising prices. And these low - paying people are those who have to supplement their income with Kela’s housing allowance so that they can survive and get bread and butter on bread at least. First, consider the everyday reality of people in large cities. For that reason, Minister, could you not review this cut again, because it is directed directly at these young people, those who enter the labour market,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u66	Mr President! This debate between the opposition and the government is interesting from time to time because you seem to have absolutely certain information about who, for example, is being affected by this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u71	Mr President! Yes, this conversation is interesting. After all, we thought that the government's aim was to dismantle the incentive traps. Now we heard from Minister Rehula's reply that the government has been prepared to move this expenditure from one place to another, from housing to income support. From the point of view of dismantling the incentive traps, this makes no sense. They are exacerbated by an increasing number of beneficiaries moving from housing allowance to income support. Then we also heard that the Ministerial Court does not fully believe that this measure will reduce rents, as has been the case in the past. The question arises: what is the point of this whole change?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u72	Mr President! Let's start with the two problems here: The first is that the housing allowance system, in its current form, costs EUR 2 billion per year, and I claim that we would be able to target this in a much more efficient way to help people, because at the moment, with the increase in rents, it is draining the owners of rental housing, the rental companies, the various public-interest entities that own these houses. Another problem is that the higher the rents rise, the worse the incentive trap becomes. And if we make up practically 100% of the rent, it will inevitably lead to an increase in rents,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u75	Mr President! Indeed, as Minister Orpo said, the effectiveness of housing policy must be looked at so that we can spend money more effectively. The Parliamentary Audit Committee will also report in this respect. It is also true that, as someone said, the money is being poured into the investors' companies, and even the investors' partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u76	Mr President! The price of living depends on many things. Of course, the basic thing is whether there is a shortage of housing or a balanced market. At the moment, where there is a shortage of housing, we are trying to increase construction. The government has done very well in this regard. The number of house openings has increased by 50 per cent during this government. Production volumes of affordable housing production, i.e. subsidized rental housing production, are also growing at all times. But on this question of assessing the overall picture, which area of housing policy would best contribute to overcoming the rise in housing prices. Of course, the government must carry out this assessment, and the government must also keep this housing side in mind when it carries out an overall assessment of social security in the second half of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u77	And two supplementary questions, first of all Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and then one from the group asking questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u78	Mr President! Clearly, it is a good thing that the government has a report on the incentive traps in social security, because you clearly have something to study in it. Now Minister Ruhula told us that the government is preparing to cut the housing allowance in such a way as to assume that people will receive the corresponding money on the income support side. That's exactly the problem. There is no point in pushing people into income support dependency, as the income support is intended as a short-term form of support that does not have the same protective component as housing support and unemployment benefit. Therefore, the wise decision - maker makes every effort not to have to rely on income support. I have asked many times here the question of why the government, through its various actions, should:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u79	Mr President! Decisions have been made on the social security side and here on the housing allowance side, and there seems to be a clear, either deliberate or unintentional misunderstanding of what is being done here. We have made decisions, but on the other hand we have a system of income support that will safeguard the situation of the most vulnerable people, even if they do not succeed otherwise. If you are now trying to claim that the objective of 30 million will be compensated for one together, then it is not intended to do so. But help is given to people whose living conditions are deteriorating in a situation where this change is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u80	Mr President! This is very confusing. Now the government has the facts in the search.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u81	Mr President! It is that we have two problems. The second is that our rents are currently rising very quickly and there
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u86	Next question, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u87	Mr President! Yesterday, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy finalised its report on the climate and energy strategy until 2030. It rightly highlights the potential of domestic forests for new growth, of course on the bioenergy side, but significant attention has also been paid to the construction of domestic wood, because we still have absolutely inexhaustible forest resources in this country. We have a lot of wood expertise, we have know-how in construction, and, among other things, the home school debate has highlighted the need to increase wood construction. On that side, however, we have many problems with the fact that we have enormous bureaucracy in the rules of construction, for example. I would have asked the Minister in charge: how are we going to react to this, that, among other things, we get these building regulations in the small and log houses in such a position that the construction of wood at last, and finally in this country, is going to get going properly? The real climate action today is to build a wooden house.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u88	Mr President! There is a desire to promote wood construction at many levels, both on the building side of blocks of flats and on the building side of small houses. In fact, when these energy efficiency requirements are amended and now the relevant regulations are being turned on, it is precisely to ensure that log houses, small houses and log day-care centres and schools can be built further. Another improvement is that that gravity ventilation is not restricted in these small houses. In fact, even heat recovery in gravity is no longer required if otherwise the energy efficiency of the building meets the required criteria. In other words, it is also here that we want to promote this healthy and well-suited log construction in Finland, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u89	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u90	Mr President, ärade talman! Europa lever i spannande tider. Vi står inför val både i Frankrike och i Storbritannien och det ska förras förhandlingar om brexit. I delar av Östeuropa blåser de nationalistiska vindarna och utvecklingen emkring Europas gränser är fortsättingsvis orolig.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u91	Mr President! The European Council held a debate on the future, which left Bratislava and ended up with Malta and the Rome Declaration. The remaining 27 countries of the European Union are now very unitedly behind the lines of this declaration, and Finland has been fully behind this chosen line. This government is fully in line with that. This government will not hold any referendums, not even discuss them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u92	Next question, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u93	Mr President! Turkey is becoming a dictatorship. There are journalists, judges of justice, opposition politicians and opinion leaders in Turkish prisons, all without trial. A thousand people were fired at the Ministry of Justice, and the entire justice system is paralyzed. Finland’s official line has been that Finland has supported the debate and promotion of Turkey’s application for EU membership. I would now like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: is Finland revising its policy on Turkey's membership of the EU and doing what many other EU countries are doing that is clearly about to freeze negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u94	Mr President! At the end of last week Malta had the Gymnich formation, where the Foreign Ministers discussed this issue in Turkey, and no country in that debate said that these negotiations should be suspended. But all countries drew attention to the human rights situation in Turkey, to the problems of freedom of expression and to all the problems that exist internally and externally in Turkey. These matters are not just solved in a way that is not discussed, they are resolved in a way that is discussed. Let me say one more thing: when the refugee agreement with Turkey was reached, the route to the Western Balkans was blocked, we must remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u95	And as a final question, I will give the floor to Mrs Packalén.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u96	Mr President! The Danish Ministry of Immigration has published on its website a list of so-called radical preachers who do not have access to the country. Kamal el-Mekki has also visited Finland in 2015. The entry of radical preachers is prohibited by public order and will last for two years. According to the Helsingin Sanomat, the Danish Minister of Immigration has said that 'the government does not accept that radical preachers come to Denmark to preach hatred of Danish society and brainwash people, including violence against women and children, to spread their ideas about Caliphat and generally to undervalue our fundamental values'. So I ask the Minister for the Interior Risiko: is Finland considering a similar ban on entry for radical preachers against Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u97	Mr President! After all, we are certainly following those who come across our borders, as we have done up to now, and especially now that we have a great deal of such radicalisation and we also have hate speech spreaders and we also have crime across borders, we are following this. Of course, it is becoming a problem, or the problem is that, for example, if there is no need for a visa in this cross-border movement, then there has not been a review of the human background — because usually if a person has committed a crime, he does not necessarily receive the visa to come here. But the monitoring of people who do not need a visa when they come to Finland is, of course, different. We have the Border Guard following all the people crossing the border, and if there is even a slight suspicion that he has committed a crime, then his movements to Finland will be evaluated. Of course, it is understandable that if you have nothing on the register and you have not yet committed the crime
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u98	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u102	Mr President! In its proposal, the Government proposes to reform the appeal of certain environmental issues so that appeals to the Supreme Administrative Court for a decision of the Administrative Court will require a permit to appeal in the future. In principle, I am in favour of rationalising such complaints. Finland is the rule of law; we should, in principle, be confident that our administrative rights will take the right decisions. Not everything requires an automatic right of appeal to the highest level. It costs money, loads and takes time, even though there will be little change. I think it makes sense to focus on the higher court level of complaints that may have legal interest, rather than creating a vending machine like the one we have today, which, in practice, is often misused just to slow things down.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u103	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The current Government in spring 2015 specifically raised the issue of construction, housing and the environment, and in the Government Programme negotiations a dedicated working group was set up to examine how we could move these projects forward and move forward. After all, in Finland, different permit processes take an enormous amount of time at the moment. At the moment, when an environmental permit is queued for about 17 months and then there are different complaints, it alone means waiting for several years. According to expert estimates, as many as 14,000 new jobs and some EUR 3 billion of investment are currently standing in the permit queue. Just a few years ago, before this government started, there were nearly 3.6 billion investments in the permit line, which is a small amount of this government has been able to speed up and dismantle this line of authorisation. However, investments of 3 billion and 14,000 jobs are still standing in different queues of permits. In accordance with this Government Programme, construction and environmental issues will be transferred so that the right to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court will first be subject to the right of appeal. The Licensing Scheme is proposed to be introduced in matters covered by the Environmental Protection Act, the Water Act and the Land Materials Act. In some cases under the Land Use and Construction Act, the complaint authorisation system is already in place by a previous decision. The proposal proposes to extend the scope of the complaint authorisation system to new matters of the Land Use and Building Law and to revise the complaint authorisation system in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Law so that the appeal authorisation is no longer linked to the change of the decision of the authority in the Administrative Court. The complaint authorisation system would then be in full use in all planning matters and other matters within the jurisdiction of the municipal authority under the Land Use and Building Act. The complaint authorisation system in place in the Nature Conservation Act is proposed to be extended to cover also decisions derogating from the specific provisions on the protection of species in the European Union referred to in Article 49(3) of the Nature Conservation Act. Personally, I welcome the fact that we are making the licensing process smoother and, as has already been pointed out here, that these complaints can be contained in order to deal with the most important projects at court level. In other words, we should not make a model where it would not be possible to make a complaint at all, but that complaint authorisation system is certainly well founded, given that we are currently in line for about 17 months and then there will be different complaints. Mr President! Personally, I would like the government to move forward with a certain approach to the issue of guarantees, i.e. more precise binding deadlines for the handling of different planning and licensing processes. It would then be quite justified to think that a late permit has been approved, i.e. to stick to the timetables that are being made. Such a model is in place in some European countries, i.e. it would provide us with a model and create investment and new jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u104	Mr President! This proposal must be taken very deeply into consideration in the committees in which it is being discussed, and I believe that this will be done at least in the Committee on the Environment. This is now a continuation of the same government policy, which was represented by the amendments to the Land Use and Building Act which were discussed here a few weeks ago, where the tasks of the Ely Centres were restricted and responsibility was transferred to ensure that decisions were lawful for citizens. For its part, citizens are taking away the opportunities that could at least theoretically ensure that legal decisions are taken, or decisions that are right in terms of the environment and nature. Even many environmental officials have already been concerned about whether this streamlining is going at too fast a pace and is not able to determine the impact of these decisions, which are now being taken on the basis of the records of the government programme, and then it is not really possible to analyse what the combined effect of all these decisions is on the state of the environment, but also on the legal protection and equality of people. Yes, it really does now require us to stop for a moment and think about what kind of Finland we are building, where the environment and citizens' rights are in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u105	Mr President! Finland is a European and Nordic rule of law and, of course, includes the ability to appeal to an independent court of law against decisions taken by public authorities. Does it have to be that everyone can complain about everything and to all stages of justice? I do not think that this should be the case. On the contrary, we have seen a great many situations in which these complaints are being used, contrary to their original purpose, precisely to block and delay various projects. When, for example, a unanimous council in a municipality or city has come to a solution, for years, different parties may, if they so wish, delay the Council’s will. I think it is an excellent thing that the current government has gone to restrict unnecessary rights of appeal, which unnecessarily hinders and hinders the progress of various sensible projects, rational planning solutions. It was stated here that the committees need to look carefully and carefully at this issue. Of course, I agree with that, but I think that the objective of maintaining legal certainty is right, that we adhere to the rule of law, but that we are trying to prevent undue delays.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u106	Mr President! At least so far in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there has been a complete consensus that everything that can be done to facilitate processing without jeopardising the level of environmental protection and the implementation of environmental laws must be done, for example by improving the exchange of information between authorities, by asking for the necessary information from one another instead of being a post office between the authorities. Mr Heinonen listed a large number of figures on how many jobs are standing and how many million investments are waiting for permits. However, I would now like to point out that most of this expectation is due to the fact that the authorities are dealing with the matter, but only a small part is due to complaints. There are no complaints about nearly all environmental permits. In other words, I would like to see a sense of proportion maintained now also in the extent to which complaints slow down processes. According to the reasoning of the government's proposal, processing times would be reduced by 10%, which I think is a small advantage of such a significant change in our rule of law. Then the impression was given that the complaints made to the Supreme Administrative Court concerning decisions of the Lower Administrative Court were largely unfounded. However, so far, in the case of many environmental laws, every fifth — every fourth decision of the lower administrative court has been amended by the Supreme Administrative Court. This does not in any way give the impression that even the complaints raised were largely unfounded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u107	Mr President! In my own speech, I made it very clear that these investments of EUR 3 billion are in the queue of permits, which are part of these complaints, but I made it clear that, for example, an environmental permit is in line for 17 months before those complaints. And then I told you that if there are complaints on top of it that are quite common and even chained from time to time, that means waiting years. That is why, in my own speech, I also brought up a little further thinking on this, that is, this process of guarantee, that we would have different authorisation processes with binding processing times, and if they did not, then it would be to think that the late authorisation has been approved, as I understand, for example, in Holland. It is therefore possible to apply for a change of decision after that. The appeal will therefore continue to work, and decisions can also be appealed against. These are not going away here, making decisions without these principles, which naturally form part of the rule of law. However, as Mr Zyskowicz pointed out above, we have a lot of situations where the same projects at different stages — in the planning phase, then in the construction permit phase, then in the next stage — the same people make complaints and chain them up, and the same authorities must also be able to intervene in this type of case. And I also welcome the fact that, for example, the role of the Ely Centres has now been changed so that they act in such a way as to advise the municipalities and the zoners, consulting consultants — not that they expect a decision to be taken first, which is the subject of complaints from another official, but that a common table is looking for a solution that is good for everyone, from the point of view of the environment, nature and then the project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u108	Mr President! This subject is quite familiar, especially in Finland in the north, where, for example, the projects of tourism companies are blocked. These are very important jobs, particularly in these small municipalities, which live in tourism, and unfortunately there is a situation where the individual can actually stop almost all significant investments in the municipality with these negative spirals, and this is unfortunate. This is bullying, which cannot be addressed by legislation at the moment, because it is not a direct bullying of one person, but a practical obstacle to the whole of the municipality. Now that these studies and studies have been carried out on companies, it is calculated that up to EUR 3 billion of these investments are stuck because of this licensing bureaucracy and complaints. Because of complaints alone, it is estimated that some EUR 1 billion will be stuck, and when it is known that on average about three years will take companies to decide to invest, that it will eventually come true and that the company has been able to process the permits and complaint processes, then at that point these projects will often be over, and in this way we will have significant difficulties in employment in Finland. This is something in which it is important to move forward at the latest. At the same time, the principle of a one-stop shop should also be achieved in this licensing bureaucracy, so that both citizens and entrepreneurs in particular will be able to deal with these issues in the future through a single application procedure as much as possible, through a one-stop shop. It is important to combine these processes. This will also significantly reduce public expenditure as different officials do not process the same papers in different organisations. It is important for many things to take this proposal forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u109	Mr President! Smoothing and reducing standards is a good goal and in line with the Government Programme. This work was already carried out in connection with the examination of the Land Use and Construction Act when the role of Ely was limited as a chosen authority. However, it is important to maintain legal certainty and the rule of law, and that is why this issue must also be dealt with carefully by the committees. In fact, my actual question and wish in this context is that of the President-in-Office, when it was somewhat unclear: which committees were supposed to deal with this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u110	Mr President! This government proposal is necessary for many reasons. Since this is a referral debate, I will bring up these professional complainers, who are doing a lot of work for the authorities. It is not really a little trouble, and that is why I would see that this issue too is being taken seriously in committee and strongly addressed, because it is nothing more than a nuisance — I know one case now from my own municipality. Construction projects can be moved quite far, and that is no small thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u111	Mr President! Mr Mölsä raised the question of professional complaints. The second group, which can be mentioned, is the Nimby people who are fiercely opposed to something, such as the social housing sector in the vicinity, and use all possible means to delay the project, including complaints at all possible stages of the process. I would like to suggest to the committees that, in this context, in order to reduce the behaviour of these perhaps the worst professional complainers, they should consider greater liability for expenses for the appellant in certain situations where the complaint is completely unfounded and the appellants lose their case. We know that there are legal fees — I think EUR 250 in the administrative court, EUR 500 in the administrative court — but in the case of such professional complainers, when the damage caused can amount to hundreds of thousands, millions of euros in delaying projects, I believe that some kind of cost risk should be considered, for example in relation to the costs of the other party, which could help to curb unnecessary, unjustified complaints. However, it should of course be borne in mind that, as I said earlier, the rule of law includes the fact that a decision by a public authority can be appealed against: such a first complaint cannot, of course, be subject to a completely unreasonable charge or expense risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u112	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u113	Mr President! In its proposal, the Government is amending the law on the organisation of the matriculation examination so that the Deutsche Internationale Abitur degree would produce the same rights as the completion of the matriculation examination. This is certainly the right thing to do, and the committee has also blessed it. However, as such a reasonable new representative, we must express a certain amazement that, as I say, trivial issues must be recycled through the full legislative process, including the debates in the Chamber and the hearings in committee. I would imagine that such an issue could be regulated by some lighter procedure in 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u114	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 4/2017 vp of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate begins: representative, committee chairman, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-04-ps-48.u115	Mr President! This draft law on posted workers is about more precise implementation and a very small matter, but it is important in itself, and that is why I would like to tell you what this is all about. In other words, when a company sends an employee to Finland, the company has an obligation to notify the health and safety authorities: how many workers come and where they work. On the other hand, the company which orders those services is obliged to ensure that there is a contact person for the company that sends them. This means that we should be better able to manage the abuse of posted workers, the lack of wage dumping or working conditions, and to enable health and safety authorities to carry out their inspections more effectively, targeting them where messages or ambiguities come from. Often it happens that when problems arise, the sending company, as it were, replaces the workers and then starts the process from the beginning. But this obligation to report will mean that even those new workers will have to be notified, and if there are omissions there will be certain sanctions. I think this is an extremely good reform. That there will be something good in the EU.
