ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u2	Mr President! This proposal by the government to streamline and streamline the environmental authorisation procedure must be supported and promoted by the fact that the present government wants to reduce standards and red tape in particular. Here too, of course, it is important that measures to reduce administrative burdens should not jeopardise the level of environmental protection and that the right of citizens to participate in decision-making on their environment will continue to be safeguarded, and this government proposal will take these issues into account. In this context too, I would like to highlight an important part of the streamlining reform, precisely the fact that the project from moving to an electronic environmental permit, i.e. an e-licence, must be strongly supported and hopefully taken forward. Electronic environmental permit for the implementation of the so-called 'one-stop shop' principle together and for the implementation of its reform — hopefully these projects will also move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u3	Mr President! After all, the government is in the process of laying down these standards, and there is much to be done, such as this relaxation of the regulation on parking parking meters. Well, then, on the environmental side, it is important to emphasise the importance of maintaining proper and good environmental control. With regard to environmental protection standards in particular, I think that this dismantling should be very careful not to create practices which, in the name of such flexibility, are beginning to undermine our protection of the environment. This also applies to the right of citizens to complain about the environment and to seek their rights and to contact the authorities. In my speech, I would like to call for us not to build a country with a worse environment for future generations in terms of environmental standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u4	Mr President! There are not many problems that need to be raised here in the law itself. But just as representative Heinäluoma has already pointed out, it may now be necessary to look at these things in the middle of the club, when so much is said about dismantling and streamlining standards. In consultation with the committee, some experts specifically called for such coordination and monitoring as to what standards have been dismantled and what they contribute to environmental protection together to be considered very carefully. It must also be remembered that standards are not just to torment people. Norms are also for this society to be organized according to them. Even when we talk about companies, the certainty of operators is improved when we have agreed good rules of play, and I think that we must, above all, pay attention to the fact that our standards and also our legislation are good legislation, which also implements good governance and thus gives people legal certainty, but also operational certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u5	Mr President! As we know, in this whole dismantling of standards, the Ministry of the Environment is definitely at the top of the list at the moment, in this parliamentary term, and we are very pleased about that. What this dismantling of standards is and what goes on with this law is that it clarifies the whole thing. It is really not just a matter of exorbitant deregulation, it is a question of clarifying activities, and what is that? It is that officials do not duplicate work first in the municipality and then in the Ely Centre, but, for example, they focus on doing good work in the municipality at once and the trust workers can count on us to have officials making this final decision, which then has the opportunity to appeal. The second is, then, that when certain complaints are made and, at the moment, in many different places different kinds of cases are dealt with, it would be just a normal person’s legal certainty that he knows that when one place, in one point, deals with this matter, there are also the places where complaints are made in this matter. In other words, the clarification of all this environmental bureaucracy is an improvement in the legal protection of the ordinary citizen in every respect. In many cases, raising the limit to environmental permit or environmental impact assessment is such measures that, since society and its activities have evolved further, it makes sense to concentrate on making a proper environmental permit where it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u6	Mr President! Mrs Maijala made a very clear speech on this. Indeed, under the last parliamentary elections, people in the marketplaces and in the turbulents came to say — ordinary people, entrepreneurs, farmers — that do something about this bureaucracy. It has been discussed for a long time, but neither Finland nor the EU have achieved results. Now that significant proposals have been made to streamline the rules, to make the authorisation procedure smoother and, hopefully, to rationalise the appeal procedures, that is a good thing and goes in the direction of their citizens' wishes. It is also the case that digitalisation helps to streamline regulation. Society is moving in this direction. I would say to Congressman Heinäluoma that this overregulation is not worth falling in love with. However, it is often a bad thing for the citizens and also a bad thing for employment when investment lies behind it. As can be seen in this proposal from the Ministry of the Environment, without any weakening of the environment, these provisions can be streamlined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u7	Mr President! With my own speech, I wanted to warn you of the risk that if this idea of deregulation goes past taking decisions that will allow for a worse environment in the future or significantly limit the possibilities for citizens to complain, then we will be on a bad path. I think it is honest even for those who talk about this reduction in standards to recognise this danger. I draw attention to what the Nobel Prize-winning Bengt Holmström spoke a moment ago. He specifically reminded us of the need for rules. It is a sign of a good, efficient Nordic society that we have adopted standards that apply to everyone. Environmental standards are also particularly important for entrepreneurs, so that we can be confident that a neighbouring company will not gain a competitive advantage by neglecting something that is essential for the environment. When I say this warning, I will also say that so far I have not seen the very worrying features of the government's action in this regard. I'm more concerned about the attitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u8	At this stage in the debate, I will give my answer to the representatives of Mrs Maijala, Mrs Torniainen, Mrs Huovinen, Mr Kiuru and then Mr Ala-Nissila, and that is all I will give at this stage. — Mr Viitanen has the floor. That's why I'm skipping him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u9	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Heinäluoma for this observation that so far there has not yet been any such problem with the environment. We are aware of the need to be very vigilant with these people. We must be careful, and that is why, at the very beginning of the reign, we have not thrown away a huge number of standards, but these have been made in several batches. Everyone has been considered and thought very carefully about the effects of these, how to deal with these people. We still have a number of other deregulation issues ahead of us, we are working on them at the moment, and we are thinking about them very much. We lawyers and other actors are wondering how we will certainly succeed in not doing stupid things in these matters, because it is certainly in the interests of all of us to make sense to move forward and everyone can concentrate on the work that they are best equipped to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u10	Mr President! In view of what Mr Heinäluoma has said, I would like to say that no one wants to go down the road to dismantling standards that are necessary for the operation. But it is quite a fact that we have overlaps in Finland, things that are not worth doing more than once and which over-regulate activities that can also be done lighter. Not everything needs to be through the authorisation procedure, but can be handled through the notification procedure. On this subject too, which is now the government's proposal, it must be said that this is also a government proposal approved by the opposition and that the committee has also become unanimous. The environmental impact assessment has been taken into account in this government proposal. Environmental issues are very much taken into account here, and I hope that this issue can also move forward as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u11	Mr President! I too would like to share this concern raised here by Mr Heinäluoma. Yes, there is a risk that the child will soon go with the bath water, and this is not a sensible activity for Finnish society or for companies either. Then I would also like to draw attention in this debate to the fact that there are times when a little too negative is given to me as to how these different processes can go. Together with Vice-President Pekkarinen, we have an excellent example of our own region: the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, where the environmental impact assessment process was carried out most smoothly for all parties involved. That's a lot of times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u12	Mr President! Norms have their purposes, and they were born in a certain situation. When situations change, standards need to be revised. Not all standards are such as to necessarily have to be removed. Much has been done on environmental issues and much remains to be done, such as the Waste Act and the Environmental Protection Act. In the case of serious environmental offences, there are records in the Criminal Code, and in this respect, for example, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Environment have worked together to find out more serious crimes. The grey economy is an integral part of environmental crime. Now, I thought that, for example, the website of the Finnish Nature Conservation Association contains excellent instructions on what to do if a private citizen finds something suspicious. The mere suspicion gives rise to the announcement that it can be investigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u13	Finally, Mr Ala-Nissila, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u14	Mr President! I do not know whether we really disagree with Mr Heinäluoma here. But as far as these risks and the dismantling of standards are concerned, the greatest risk so far has been that nothing is going to happen, that it is simply said that unnecessary bureaucracy should be dismantled, but nothing can be achieved. For example, in the EU, I too have experience, it was said that it should be simplified, that it should be simplified. Then you finally spread your hands and say that the simplefication is so complicated, and nothing happens. Today too little is happening in the EU. We know that the administrative burden and bureaucracy are many times too heavy and people do not understand these provisions. The risk is that we will not achieve it. Fortunately, we now have the Sipilä government, which will do the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u15	Mr President! Yes, standards can be dismantled when it makes action more flexible and rational and, as it were, overlapping or other regulations that are not needed, quite well, of course, can be thrown into the wastebin. But I think it is very important, Mr President, that this debate and the general debate were opened up about this crackdown on standards, that, of course, the enthusiasm for the dismantling of standards should not in any way go in the direction of, for example, weakening the environment. It is in the interests of all of us to take care of our nature and also to spare it for our children and grandchildren, which is also the case. I think it was very appropriate that Mr Heinäluoma drew attention to the fact that, in the name of the abolition of standards, of course, we must not produce a worse environment. There's no one in love with overregulation. This is where the debate on an important issue arises, in a proper manner. But, President-in-Office, I would like to say that this dismantling of standards has already taken place during the last period. For example, this collection of building orders at the Ministry of the Environment has already been under consideration at that time. This work is being done all the time. The idea is precisely to save what is necessary, to take care, for example, of the quality of construction, not to compromise it, not to create a wolf and a second, but then such overlapping and pointless things. President! As far as this area of standards and the spirit of this government is concerned, I am concerned that there has been little news, among other things, about the reform of animal welfare legislation, that no new ethically wise reforms can now be made, because there will be too much standards or costs. This is not the way it should be. It must be possible to take care of the environment, to take care of our proper animal protection, these things. Furthermore, as far as the EU is concerned, as the previous speaker mentioned, it would be that there would be a desire to abolish standards in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u16	Now if the congressman wants to go on, I'll ask him to come in here. — Mr Laukkanen is next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u17	Mr President! We have been talking about very important issues here, and I would actually have liked this report to have been a little more in-depth and to have tackled these issues. On page 2, "The development of the environmental permit procedure" is well stated: "The Committee welcomes the measures to facilitate and streamline the environmental permit procedure in general, while at the same time ensuring certain framework conditions. In principle, it is important that measures to reduce administrative burdens do not jeopardise the level of environmental protection and that the right of citizens to participate in decision-making on their environment is safeguarded." Then these restrictions on streamlining and lightening measures have been mentioned here within the framework of the EU, saying: 'This means an excessive burden, such as noise or dust, which may be the result of action under the Act on certain neighbourhood relations.' I would have asked if there were members of the committee present, how much of this was dealt with when, especially in the big cities, it happens as if it were a little accidental, that crushers and other such treatment plants come very close to the agglomerations, as happened recently in Espoo, and then the whole project had to be scrapped when it was said that it did not meet the requirements. Was there a more in-depth debate on this in committee? This is what I would have asked you about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u18	Mr President! This lecture by Professor Bengt Holmström, a Nobel Prize winner, was a very good introduction to this debate when he said that bureaucracy is not a problem but a solution and a task for the public sector. On the other hand, he also pointed out that it was necessary to live in time and also to lighten the bureaucracy when it was necessary to change the environment. I am not a member of this committee, but I am committed to this report, and I think this is very much to be welcomed. After all, it is stated here that the activities referred to in the government proposal, when assessed in general terms, do not have a say in the environmental impact. In spite of this debate, I understand that everyone here believes that this proposal is necessary and that, in overall environmental management, we still have a need for an appropriate dismantling of standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u19	Was Mr Myller's rise a sign that you would like to make a reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u20	Mr President! I would also like to emphasise that speech by Nobellist Holmström, who has just been heard, that, in fact, just like the representative, Mr Räsänen said above: there is also a need for bureaucracy. Somehow I think that a good administration has its value. Many times we think that this good administration is as if it always exists, but we only see problems when it is lacking, and that is why it is worth stopping at this point for a while. President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the past, when this debate was given the impression, perhaps in a way, that the government did not take decisions that jeopardise good environmental considerations, I personally disagree with this argument. I refer to the debate we have had in this Chamber on the amendment of the Land Use and Building Law, which removes the right of appeal from the Ely Centres. This will mean that this type of judicial control, which the Ely Centres have very carefully used in environmental matters, and which has passed through most of the complaints, which the Ely Centre's complaints have also been appropriate from the point of view of case law, will now be left to us ordinary citizens and non-governmental organisations. I do not see this at all as what we are accustomed to doing in terms of our environmental protection and also in terms of cooperation between the various authorities. As I said in my previous speech, Mr President, yes, in these Norms, and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u21	Mr President! On this point, I would like to say that this committee's report is, in fact, rather heavy in all its shortness. It is stated here that, while reducing this authorisation procedure, this importance of ex post controls will be emphasised. I wonder how sensible it is for an action to first allow some somewhat questionable activity, as it were, to start with the notification procedure and then, once the damage has been caused, the ex post control will say that the damage has been caused. I am not quite sure whether this will be the best way forward on these environmental issues, while we all hope that things will be smoother and better: environmental issues are a little bit so that if there is a major accident, then it may take a hundred years to fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u22	Mr President! The question was raised as to how this matter was dealt with in the Committee on the Environment. As is certainly the case with this report, there were no disagreements or objections. The points which were discussed did not cause this, but, as you have seen from the examples you have read in that report, it was strongly intended to point out that this stripping of standards cannot be just such a question of streamlining, but is precisely a question of what these standards are needed for. They are needed, for example — what has been stated there — for operators also to have the assurance of action: when they know how things are done, it is also the advance provision that is no longer needed for this post-control. In fact, there are a number of points which have raised the concern that we need to look at the direction in which we are now heading in this Norm. Very easily happens when small individual changes are made, that if they all have the same direction, it will be greatly strengthened. In this respect, I welcome the fact that this report has now been read, even though there are no objections to it. I agree with what Mrs Huovinen said that we have a recent legislative proposal, this draft law on land and buildings, which should also have been assessed through the environmental impact it will have in the longer term. It cannot be that the lawfulness of municipal land use is left to ordinary people
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u23	Mr President! It was a good thing that Mrs Huovinen raised that point. I think I gave the government a little too careless a clean bill of health. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u26	Mr President! This intimidation of the wild west seems a little oversized. I understand, of course, the rhetorical means to which the opposition is fully entitled. I would remind you, however, that in the municipalities employees, officials, are preparing with official responsibility. The experience I have four years of working at the city hall — I have followed land use, planning, things along these lines, colleagues working there — so that respect for the law and compliance with the rules have always been very clear in mind. I do not deny that there are differences between municipalities, but I do trust municipal workers and civil servants' responsibilities. And there's still that right of appeal there, even if it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u27	Here is the good news, Mr Kiuru, that this is something we are going to see. So once this previous amendment to the Land Use and Building Act has been adopted, we will see to what extent this will affect practical activities. I assume, therefore, that the committee, when this has already been discussed, has already started to say that this experience will then be passed on to Parliament in due course, that these land-use solutions have made progress since this change, when there is no opportunity to complain, and I believe that if it turns out that bad decisions are being taken in this respect from the point of view of environmental standards, then we will be able to come back to this point. But even after that, I would like to say that where is the matter of energy certificates, on which there was a citizens' initiative here? I recall that there were friends at the time when Mr Viitanen presented it, and it was a very good statement by Minister Viitanen that we would assume that old detached houses could be exempted from this provision. I am in favour of dismantling this standard myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u28	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u29	Mr President! This is precisely because every time you talk about complaints and citizens' rights to complain, you have to be very, very careful. There are always many sides to this issue, and that is why I respect the views of the representatives of Huovinen, Myller and Heinäluomaa on this particular problem. And it is certainly the case that Parliament will want to be able to explain how the practices will change in the future. I will also return to this matter of energy certification now that it is good to bring it up when we talk about the dismantling of standards. Indeed, as has been said here, last season, with the citizens' initiative of the Omakoti Union, the whole Parliament committed itself to developing this national legislation for old detached houses. This initiative, which I took as a minister, to make the energy certificate voluntary for old detached houses, was also approved and obliged by the whole Parliament. Now we have asked a few times this season what it looks like, what is going on there, and not much has been said. That is why I think it would be very good for the Minister to tell us at some point. Right now, it is in the European Union that this directive is being evaluated and watched, and it would be good if Finland were now working hard on this position, which was originally the position of Finland when this energy efficiency directive was adopted there in the European Union. I am indeed surprised that last season, when we wanted to dismantle unnecessary standards in this regard, there was a legitimate desire to hear, for example, the legitimate concern of self-residents about this, then we were dismantled and went in that direction, and then it was a great disappointment and confusion that when we were considering that directive anyway, why on earth Finland is doing the opposite, turning the course completely and putting the garages into the energy certificate, i.e. more standards. I felt so strange.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u30	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, as a senior, experienced politician and expert, said just as this is the case, and that it is good that this is the way forward, but he forgot for a while that he is in the opposition. On the opposition side, it has only been said that the matter is now going wrong, but we in the government parties – and I too have studied some of the field – are very pleased that this is the way forward on these standards. I am prepared to assume responsibility, even in accordance with the government's proposal, which we adopted in committee on this land use and construction law — I believe that it has been done in a very sensible way in terms of environmental values.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u33	Mr President! I would like to continue the debate on the weakening that has already taken place and thank Mrs Maijala for her thanks. There is only such a problem that we and the experts in this MRL change lost this twist, which should have gone the other way. As you remember well, we had experts, including a professor of urban planning, who said that this limitation of the right of appeal of the Ely Centres and these changes are an attempt to respond to a problem that does not even exist. In other words, this change had very different purposes than what has been presented here. I would also like to say, President, that there are very big differences in the competence of municipalities in this respect. That I do not, in principle, doubt that the municipalities will know how to do it, but we all know that there are many different situations in Finland and that the competence of municipalities in these matters varies, as in many other matters. It has therefore been necessary for the Ely Centre to have had the opportunity to intervene when it is seen that this is not the way it should be. Now this opportunity is being taken away, and I regard it as a very bad solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u34	Mr President! When it comes to the supervision and complaints of the Ely Centre, it is always a question of judicial control. I have to say that I trust these municipal officials, but I do trust the officials of the Ely Centre. They've done the right thing, too. If control goes solely to the citizens, it may be that the law enforcement is a little less important, and then perhaps other things and values will go further, and it may be that the flood of complaints will then become bigger. But if we are actually talking about these standards here on the building side in general, then it is precisely these energy certificates that should be done, and also the fact that such things as turning a summer cottage into a winter residence or putting a flat roof in the garage as a brush roof are things that should be done without authorisation. Now, if you want to build a brushtop in the garage, make it look prettier on your own eye and on the eyes of your neighbors, it is not enough to get a building permit, but you have to even have a permit from your neighbors, and this is quite incomprehensible. Yes, there must now be a limit to these applications for licences, and if we want to dismantle the standards, let us tackle issues where this complaint procedure will actually decrease and where things will actually be smooth when the standards are reduced. We have so many of them. We are such a promised country of the rules, very good schoolgirls, and we put a rule everywhere, and always have to have a permit for something. Even you have to have a permit from home so you can go out in gym class. These are such things where we can break those standards and make this whole life a little smoother.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u35	Mr President! I would just like to point out here that this streamlining and streamlining of environmental permit procedures was already launched during the last parliamentary term, i.e. the first and second phases were taken through by the previous government. Even the third stage started at the end of 2014, when the Ministry of the Environment set up an evaluation team to assess the smoother, more efficient and different policy options for environmental authorisation and assessment procedures. Well, then, this is it. In the report, the Tarast Evaluation Group proposed 19 measures to streamline environmental procedures. This work has already been completed, that is to say this work by Tarast, before drawing up this programme for the Sipilä Government, and very much, for example, this proposal, which is now being discussed, is in fact the basis and basis for the last parliamentary term. I'll take this as an example. I supported the work of the Evaluating Group, although it proposed to include provisions on electronic advice on environmental permit projects, which is now included in this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u36	Mr President! This debate has, of course, expanded a great deal on this actual issue, which is now being discussed, from this government proposal. Now I would like to say that, overall, the streamlining and streamlining of the environmental authorisation procedure, its forwarding, is a good thing, and, as the Government's proposal itself does, it is a good thing that these environmental protection values are also taken into account and can be influenced. With regard to what has been said in this debate about the reform of the Land Use and Building Law, which has been in our Chamber during the debate, I would like to say that, overall, the Land Use and Building Law has been reformed in a way that is like a patchwork and many times it has been supplemented in small parts, and that overall reform of the Land Use and Building Law and its forwarding is an important issue. The Minister for the Environment has already started to take it forward. I hope that it will also take account of this whole formula system, how it will be simplified in order to speed up those measures. Then, with regard to this reform of the Land Use and Building Law which we have discussed, it became clear that experts would all agree that the role of the Ely Centre should be maintained as such. That is not entirely true, for the City of Helsinki, for example, said in its expert report that this limitation of the right of appeal of the Ely Centres is a good thing, as it reduces overlaps between authorities and also speeds up planning processes. That is also a good thing to consider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u37	Mr President! The main objective of this government proposal is to reduce the availability of environmental permits. The Committee on the Environment has produced a good report and a lot of important points have been raised here. When we talk about the environment, it must also be maintained for future generations, and just as the committee's explanatory statement states, I also think it is extremely important that it is always important, as a matter of principle, that these various measures to reduce administrative burdens do not jeopardise the level of environmental protection and that the right of citizens to participate in decision-making about their environment is also safeguarded, i.e. that beautiful environment and nature are also left there for future generations. When there is talk here about this dismantling of standards, about streamlining the authorisation and also about these complaints and complaints, I think that the limit should also be drawn in these appeals procedures, that there is not always an endless opportunity to complain. Then there was the talk of these changes in the winter house — Mr Tolppanen, you made a good point. We do have the custom and practice in Finland that we can draw up and make different rules and laws, but when we go out and dismantle them, is it easy or difficult? I think it is rather difficult, but I hope that we will now make things smoother and we will also be able to break standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u38	Mr President! It is true that we have had a wide range of experts in committee. They have expressed a wide range of opinions, but not all of us consider the law and the perfect truth to be what they say. It is up to us on the committee to analyse, to consider which of them is the way forward, because each expert tells us these things from his own point of view. That is why it is good that we are listening to a number of experts there, not only that we also have our own interests around which we are discussing these issues. Secondly, I would like to thank Mrs Räsänen for her contributions. Although we all want to be credited for these dismantlings, I have to admit, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, that many of these things were already being discussed during the last parliamentary term. For example, representatives of the opposition have already been preparing and speaking for these issues during the last parliamentary term. I hope that the opposition will remember what they have said and put forward in this regard during the last parliamentary term. Mr Tolppanen then made a good point about what other things should be done. After all, we still have a lot of standards on the environmental side, which it would be good to rationalise above all on this building side. We have already dealt with how the notification procedure has been increased in this Chamber in the last month. Here, too, is the increase in the notification procedure that building permits need not always be necessary. Then the second is these cottages. The issue of duality has now begun to be discussed, how to take forward the matter, how to put cottages better into homes, and many other things. But we're going one step at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u39	Mr President! It was said here that we are hearing all kinds of experts in committee. I think that all the experts that are being listened to are quite good experts and necessary experts. For example, the criticism that came in connection with the Land Use and Construction Act, among other things, about the dissolution of the right of appeal of the Ely Centres, came from, among other things, the Supreme Administrative Court. The criticism came precisely from the fact that this article, which removes this right of appeal, is so unclear that it will cause more complaints. Then, on the other hand, when it was said here that the most important thing remains, namely that the experts of the Ely Centre advise municipalities on these zoning issues, this will not happen, because the Ely Centres will be closed down and this work will not then be transferred to the provincial government. It is indeed the barking of the wrong tree that the Ely Centres have been caught up in this or the work that the Ely Centres are doing in the future, that is not really what the Ely Centres are doing in the future. But the work that the authority has done in this area with regard to supervision is completely excluded, as complaints from the existing Ely Centres have been about 4% of all complaints. These complaints don't break that complaint. It only ensured that these decisions in the municipalities met the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u40	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u41	Mr President! In this bill we propose that a new Article 8a be added to the Act on the Status and Rights of the Patient. Patient's right to hospice. For hospice treatment is an impending pre-death treatment when death is expected to occur within the next few days or weeks. The exception to this time limit is dementia, an Alzheimer’s disease, in which the hospice may last for several months, even two or three years, when it is very difficult to predict and evaluate the impending death. Good hospice can be used to treat severe pain, to treat severe symptoms: shortness of breath, nausea, restlessness. Indeed, a dying person has the opportunity to offer a good life to the end, if only the means of palliative, symptomatic treatment, such as effective pain treatment, are used. Good hospice treatment also means that the needs of the person being cared for are taken into account from the physical, mental, spiritual, and social points of view, including his family and community. And it must be remembered that hospice treatment does not mean moving from active therapy to passive therapy, but, at best, hospice therapy is very active in treating the patient’s symptoms. The recommendations for hospice care emphasise the dignity, humanity, self-determination of the dying person and patient, i.e. support and care for the individual dying person and his/her loved ones with respect to human dignity. A person dying in hospice has the opportunity to prepare for an imminent death, and this possibility is also being secured for the loved ones. The initiation of hospice treatment is based on a written plan of care, and the transition to the hospice phase is a decision on treatment under the Act on the status and rights of the patient, which must be discussed with the patient himself, or if he is unable to decide on his treatment himself, then with the next of kin or other close or legal representative. In 2011, the National Advisory Board on Ethics in Social Affairs and Health concluded that 3090 patients were then treated at the actual hospice sites, one third of whom we currently have four hospice homes, and it was already discovered at that time that the need was significantly higher, between 12,000 and 13,000 patients per year. This would mean that about 9,000 patients requiring demanding hospice treatment have been treated in normal patient areas. It is a little difficult to say how good hospice treatment they have actually received. Over the last ten years, there has been a positive development in hospice care, it has been made much progress, but we still have shortcomings. In other words, hospice treatment has not been systematically developed as part of public health care. As such, hospice methods — palliative, symptomatic treatment, such as pain relief — are more advanced than ever in human history. We have effective means of pain relief that can handle even the most difficult pains if all the means are used. We also have the possibility of palliative sedation as death approaches, if there are no other means to control the symptoms. Palliative sedation does not mean euthanasia and does not even shorten the patient’s life span, and it can also be awakened if necessary. Well, although hospice care and access to it have indeed been improved by setting up hospice units, training, developing care chains, it has not been possible to guarantee it for everyone at the moment. Patients in need of hospice care are in an unequal position depending on their municipality of residence and disease. There are big differences between the municipalities here. We have a lack of resources and a lack of skills. And that is why I think it is important to provide for a law specifically based on the right of the patient to move — that is to say, the right to hospice — and which is the best way to secure that opportunity and equal access to hospice. I would also like to point out here that: After all, at the beginning of this year the Medical Association commissioned a survey of doctors involved in the treatment of dying patients, and the majority of those who responded to that survey, over 70 percent, were hoping for the adoption of a hospice law. The consequence of this bill would be to confirm the right of access to hospice in a treatment unit specialising in the need for treatment for a patient with progressive, incurable disease and a short life span. A Government decree could then provide for more detailed implementation of hospice care. By regulating the law on the right of the patient to hospice care, it would be possible to ensure that everyone has this fundamental right to human and painless death. The adequate and equal implementation of hospice care requires that it is available to all people, regardless of the municipality of residence, regardless of the disease that leads to this. After all, cancer is the most common cause that comes to mind when we talk about hospice, but we also have a great deal of other chronic, severe neurological diseases, heart diseases, lung diseases that lead to the condition where we need access to hospice. And, of course, this right also requires, above all, the strengthening of the training of professionals involved in hospice care, from there to the initial training of doctors and nurses to specialist training and also to further training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u42	Congressman Juvonen. — Mr Tolppanen has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u43	Mr President! Mr Räsänen presented this point and stressed that this would provide a patient who was dying with painless treatment. I think it would be very human if the word could be added to this bill to give the dying and living person a period of painless illness. Whether death is near or far away, inhuman pain is something that needs to be dealt with. It is sad that we even need the law to get human hospice care. It is shocking that we need the law that a person who suffers because he is sick does not receive treatment, that we need to legislate to provide for the kind of treatment that he humanly can endure, and that he is also able to think positively about life forward. In the middle of the pain, no one can do it. Everyone knows who's ever had a toothache.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u44	Mr President! Representative Tolppanen raised an important issue and extended this to the wider treatment of pain. It is quite true that good treatment of pain must be provided in all situations. If you consider situations where you also have an incurable disease, the phase of palliative treatment, that is, the phase of switching from active, healing treatment to symptomatic treatment, may be considerably longer than the actual phase of hospice. But we also have a specific definition of this actual process of hospice care, where death is near, and it is also needed for the spiritual, social, spiritual support of the approaching death, and that is why separate hospice care is also spoken of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u45	Congressman Juvonen, I'm on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u46	Mr President! Thank you for the euthanasia citizens' initiative that we here in Parliament have really started working together to improve hospice care. That is the way it should be and that is what we should do. Last season, when I got to Parliament for the first term, I decided that the hospice theme was one of the things that I will drive vigorously here in Parliament, and I have taken a number of initiatives in connection with the creation of a hospice law. I am pleased, Mr Päivi Räsänen, that you have presented your bill, but unfortunately this alone is not enough. It is not enough for us to complete the legislation already in place; we need all our own legislation for hospice care. We need legislation on hospice care where the criteria for hospice care must be recorded, access to hospice care, adequate hospice facilities, subjective access for citizens to hospice care, the right to further and further training for hospice workers and the right of patients to choose the place where they are treated. I held a seminar in the Little Parliament and asked the citizens: what do you want when you are in hospice? They hoped for the right to treatment, the right to painless care, support, mental health assistance and soul care. We have developed a huge amount of hospice care in Finland, but the principle of equality does not yet apply everywhere. In the context of the social reform, we must also put this at the heart of the matter. We have the possibility of sedation, we have the possibility of good medical treatment, but unfortunately it has not reached everyone in Finland yet. The possibility of sedation should be increased in the future. It is very important that we really get this hospice in order during this parliamentary and government term so that we do not have to worry about the moment when this matter is perhaps before us or before our loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u47	Mr President! Mr Juvonen has indeed done a good job and has brought up this hospice, which is a very good thing. Now that it is a question of what kind of change is needed in our legislation, I am quite flexible in it, but I think that what you have listed, what kind of rights we need will be achieved through this particular amendment, the article, which defines the subjective right to hospice care for the patient. In other words, this article, which I propose to add in this bill, is precisely this subjective right to receive hospice treatment as necessary. Then the details and criteria should be regulated by a Government decree according to this, i.e. not necessarily in my opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u48	Mr President! Mr Päivi Räsänen, your legislative initiative is indeed important and its content is such that everything that is now being done on this issue should be taken into account and a good and constructive debate will be held, in which way we can combine everything into a sensible package. I would therefore like to thank you for taking this initiative. This is good. I myself am concerned that we have very fragmented and wide-ranging legislation. We have a law on patient status and justice, we have a health law, and we also have a constitution, and all of these are moving close to the very point when this hospice situation comes. That is why I would like us to have clear legislation, quite clearly where the number of hospice facilities is also available — it is calculated and defined in different ways. The European palliative association has calculated that around 500 hospice homes are missing in Finland. We will face tough challenges by 2020 in every city
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u49	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u50	Mr President! This bill, which adds the patient's right to good and proper hospice to the patient's status and rights law, is good and very timely and is partly linked to the ongoing euthanasia debate. In 2010, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health published hospice recommendations aimed at improving human dignity and self-determination and improving equality and equality. This is done by increasing the planning of treatment and patient participation in decision-making. The recommendations highlight the ethical nature of hospice care, enabling a patient to die well and enabling family members to participate. In addition, the hospice recommendations require hospital districts to draw up hospice plans to comply with them. The delivery of hospice care is carried out by a multi-professional group that has received hospice training and has the opportunity to consult at different times of the day, as well as opportunities for training, job guidance and discussion. The working group also cooperates with both the patient and the family. Despite the recommendations and development of hospice therapy, patients are in an unequal position depending on where they live. The purpose of the amendment is to remedy this problem. That is why this bill is necessary, at least to begin with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u51	Mr President! I am delighted to welcome this bill produced by Mrs Räsänen, and I note that such gradual progress, which does not bring, as it were, too complicated a proposal, may then be more successful in relation to this actual objective. A very high-quality debate on euthanasia was held here in Parliament on the basis of a citizens' initiative and improved hospice care was raised in that debate. That may have been the best contribution to the whole conversation. Correct me if I am wrong, but I remained in the impression that the wish of all the parliamentary groups was to put hospice care into the law so that there would then be a clear obligation. One of the things I have been thinking a lot about lately in this hospice treatment is that this raising of Christianity even in a situation like this, when a person is leaving this life, seems to be something that should not be interfered with. I would also like to see this considered in the context of the Hospice Care Act, that a person has the right to have it on his last journey when preparing for this spiritual ministry as well. The mother of one of my friends had been in such a situation when her daughter would have liked to sing her mother the hymn that she asked for, the nurse denied it and said that this was an unrecognized hospital. I thought this was a rather shocking example, I just wanted to raise it here. That it would be great for these things to be brought clearly into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u52	Mr President! Oh, this catapult people! Woe to this catapult people: we need the law to have human life. I think it's so shocking that I'm crying, really. First of all, this bill is a very good one, the desire to get people to have a painless life. That is a very good thing. But it may also be that the person who would like to do euthanasia does so in such a way that he chooses this painless hospice, because euthanasia is also a death of dignity and respect for the rest of his life — death where there is no need to suffer where there is no need to languish. That is a very good thing. But I would hope that, now that we are already living in the 21st century, we will actually get to it that we do not have to compromise it in those hospitals for the sake of our loved ones, whether they are receiving painkillers or not, what kind of pain medication they are receiving, whether it is a drug for pain, or not it is a drug. We know that cannabis products, for example, help some people, so we have a drug cannabis that is prescribed for certain diseases when nothing else helps — for example, at a certain point in time, ms disease is something that no other painkiller can do anymore. What I find most shocking: now that there is a doctor here, I ask what the ethical premise is that if a person has a fatal illness — and when we know that no one can say for sure that you will die tomorrow and you will die the day after tomorrow and you in two months — it is said that it is not possible to give this medicine because he becomes addicted. What difference does it make — if that addiction guarantees its dignity for the rest of its life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u53	Mr President! The question raised by Mr Tolppanen that the patient in the hospice phase is not dared to give enough painkiller in fear of addiction, or the question raised by Mr Laukkanen as to whether the hymn should be sung by a dying nearby bed is precisely the questions for which we need this hospice law and for which reason we need to have access to skilled hospice care, because this is very much a question of attitude and competence. Good hospice care involves not being afraid of these addictions and giving as much pain care as is needed, and also respecting and wanting to support the values of life, the needs of spiritual life, the needs of social life, both of the patient and his loved ones. So all hospice guides stress that all four areas of life need to be considered, physical, mental, social and spiritual. It is precisely for these reasons that we really need this law. Mr President! I once received a phone call from a lady who asked if hospice treatment meant that the patient was moved to the department storeroom and not given food or drink. He told his ill mate, who had been informed that hospice treatment was now being started, and then, on the same day, he was transferred to an overcrowding location in the storage room. This is a bad example of poor treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u56	Mr President! This bill on hospice care is also very important because there are not enough hospice facilities and therefore no hospice care skills. This has also been the case in prosperous Espoo. I came to the council there in 2001 and since then there have been various initiatives to put hospice care in order, and only now, in 2016, when the new Espoo hospital started, is the situation that we have enough hospice facilities, there is our own hospice unit with enough skills and places — so I think this is such an important presentation that such wealthy cities with economic surpluses will no longer escape the fact that such care must be able to be guaranteed. That is why this is a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-29-ps-31.u57	Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that when a debate took place here in Parliament on the basis of a citizens' initiative promoting euthanasia — I was delighted that a great many Members of Parliament raised and that a very large number of parliamentary groups raised the objective of improving hospice care from both resources and legislation during this parliamentary term — I really hope that a clear step forward will be made during this parliamentary term in the development of hospice care, taking forward legislation as well as the necessary resources for hospice care. Tomorrow there will be a debate on the basis of the Centre's initiative, and that too is something I very much welcome. However, I hope that this debate will also bear in mind that it is only through the development of organisational responsibilities that we will ultimately not be able to secure the right to care for patients, and that is why I believe that this reform, which I have proposed in this legislative initiative together with other representatives, is also needed.
