ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 February 2017. In the debate, Antero Laukkanen, supported by Laura Huhtasaari, has proposed that Parliament adopt the draft statement 1. Päivi Räsänen, supported by Mika Niikko, has proposed that Parliament adopt the draft statement 2. These draft statements have been circulated to the representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u2	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. Antero Laukkanen and Päivi Räsänen's statements will be put to the vote against the report separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2017 vp of the Audit Committee. The debate begins, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u4	Mr President! The starting point for the adoption of this report by the Audit Committee was after decisions that had caused significant damage to the company and thus to the State had been taken at Finavia through the conclusion of derivative contracts and this matter had been reviewed by the Audit Office. The Audit Office carried out two audits: first the audit itself on derivatives transactions and risk management, which was completed in 2013, and later a separate legality check, which was completed in 2016. For its part, the Audit Committee stated that it takes this on its agenda, carefully goes through what has happened on the principle that there are no issues that would be swept under the carpet, but that all matters will be clarified and cleared up in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is used in a controlled and responsible way, and, on the other hand, that there is a jointly accepted culture of state-owned companies, in accordance with which decisions are taken and monitored. On the basis of this explanation, what are the facts? It is clear that there have been questionable derivative contracts concluded at Finavia in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The initial and acceptable purpose of these agreements was to protect the interest rate risk of credit, but they were concluded in such a way that the contracts were speculative. They have also included the possibility of a return and hence a significant risk in the event of adverse interest rate developments. The risks of the contracts were not reported to Finavia's Board of Directors and these risks were not reported to Finavia's financial statements either. However, even as a peasant, it is clear that it is not the role of state-owned companies to act as a speculator in the market, but that it is the responsibility of state-owned companies to take care of the matter for which each company was established. It can therefore be said that the management system and supervision in this respect have failed. The Audit Board has given its own decision on the matter. The Board considered that the Chief Responsible Auditor had acted in breach of good auditing practice in 2010 and, having taken into account the limitations of the audit plan as a mitigating factor, the Chief Responsible Auditor received a warning for the financial year 2011. In 2012, losses became apparent and the company began to settle the matter. The result is that when the derivative contracts were terminated, the company suffered losses of EUR 34 million. The Audit Committee has also been more generally involved in risk management for other state-owned companies, and it is to be welcomed that, according to the information received by the Committee, there are no similar activities and risks for other state-owned companies. Let's get to the bottom of this. When the losses and derivative contracts were discovered, the company started to settle the matter. It has taken a very long time for this inquiry, with all its stages, and, as a result, some of the possibilities of claiming damages have become obsolete. The complexity of derivative contracts is partly demonstrated by the fact that the company took about a year before, with the help of an external consultant, it had determined what these contracts contained and what types of risks were involved. For its part, the National Audit Office carried out its own report, which was completed in 2013, and the Agency issued recommendations in this regard, according to which ownership management and the company should operate. In addition to the practical aspects, the Audit Office noted in these recommendations that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, in charge of the corporate governance function, should assess the diligence of the management and auditors accordingly. In line with this, a follow-up study was carried out in the company. In 2015, damages actions were brought against the audit firm Deloitte, including against the former Board of Directors and the CEO, and the company also makes an inquiry request to the police for the actions of the Vice-President and the Chief Financial Officer. However, the request for an investigation is made after the period of compensation has expired, i.e. two years after the termination of the employment relationship. The committee has been going through the operation of owner guidance over a longer period of time. Owner guidance and responsible ministers have supported the investigation of the matter, the limitation of damage and also the approach to seek compensation for damages based on the relevant legal reports. This line in owner guidance has continued until autumn 2015. In the autumn of 2015, the Ministry of Transport and Communications’ line in this regard changed. In this early autumn, according to the information received by the committee, the Ministry of Ownership Guidance has also been of the opinion that it is justified to proceed with the damages action and has also been of the opinion of the Audit Office during the negotiations held in early autumn 2015. Since then, the documents and the report received by the committee show that there is apparently a second assessment in the Ministry, the content of which is that actions for damages against the audit firm Deloitte are justified and attempts to seek a friendly solution. The reasons for this have been set out in the committee's report. The Government's corporate governance has also been involved on several occasions. The position of the Government Ownership Steering Unit has also lived in autumn 2015, and it reached that conclusion on November 19th. on the day that it made recommendations to the Ministry as to what it would be worth doing. These recommendations include progress in the damages action and the holding of an extraordinary general meeting. How do you assess everything that's happened? The committee's own view, based on all the consultations, is that the company has had a clear skills gap, particularly in relation to the financial markets. This deficit has arisen in a situation where an old business has become a limited liability company and has taken action in the face of higher risks. The committee is of the opinion that the skills and responsibilities of those responsible for risk management and financing of the company have not been sufficient in the new company-based operating environment. The Audit Committee therefore stresses that, in addition to drawing up appropriate instructions, it is also the responsibility of the company's management and board to ensure that the instructions drawn up are complied with and that the responsible personnel of the company have the necessary skills and skills in relation to their duties. On the basis of the information received by the committee, one of the factors contributing to the lengthening of matters has been the attempt to avoid publicity in the company. The committee considers that the efforts of the company's Board of Directors to avoid publicity following the disclosure of the derivative problem in 2012 have slowed the company's decision-making process in order to engage in compensation processes. This has had an impact on the fact that some of the actions have become obsolete. Then it is obvious that opinions on how likely success in the action could be achieved have differed, especially during the autumn of 2015. The ownership control unit's position has been,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u7	Mr President! In 2009-2011, Finavia Corporation has concluded derivative contracts, which the committee considers to be unclear as to their relevance. I fully agree with that. I really don't understand what these things are for. The contracts resulted in losses of approximately EUR 34 million. The report of the Audit Committee contains two messages for the management of state-owned companies. Firstly, the committee has considered it important to organise properly the risk management of state-owned companies and has considered that the Government should provide guidance on this issue. Secondly, the Audit Committee considered it necessary for the Government to specify the operating principles of state ownership control in wholly state-owned companies, to define the limits of permitted and inappropriate corporate governance, to make the necessary changes and to ensure that they are implemented. Mr President! The State has holdings in a total of 62 companies. Of these, 47 are non-listed, directly state-owned companies. State ownership control is divided into eight ministries. Most of the holdings are centralised in the Prime Minister's Office. The core principles of state ownership management are based on legislation, Government Resolutions on Ownership Policy and the Corporate Governance Code and OECD Corporate Governance Recommendations drawn up by the Securities Association. For the first time, government-owned companies were given government recommendations as early as 2000. It was already necessary, among other things, to organise risk management in companies. The current code list applied by state companies requires the description and reporting of risk management principles in the company’s operating report. In companies, risk management is the responsibility of the company’s board of directors. The company’s operational management is responsible for implementing the company’s risk management policy and reporting on the implementation to the company’s Board of Directors. Risk management must remain a tool for the company’s Board of Directors. This is also important for determining the liability under the Government Companies Act. I take it for granted that the Board of Directors of each company regularly reviews the risk management package according to its annual watch. There must be no doubt about this. If there's any doubt, we need to find out. This is why I have ordered the Ownership Steering Department of the Prime Minister's Office to investigate the prevailing practices of all companies. The state-owned company requires companies to have an up-to-date risk management policy and to be regularly dealt with by the boards of companies. The second point raised by the Audit Committee relates to the decisions taken by the owner. Personally, I think that the interests of the owner and the company are always the same in the long run. This, of course, requires a high level of social responsibility on the part of the company, to which we, as the owner, in the resolution of last spring's principle, have specifically obliged the companies. Ownership decisions should be made in writing, as the committee has pointed out, but, for example, the government should and should be able to encourage careful action outside final meetings. This may be necessary, for example, in situations where the government cannot unanimously take the decisions it deserves. I myself do not remember any situation in which the board of directors had to vote for tens of companies for 25 years. It's probably very rare, and it's right to put the owner on his toes. It was the same in this case. As the Audit Committee points out, ownership practices should be uniform. That is why I have asked the VNK's Ownership Steering Department to assess the need for guidance and, if necessary, to redefine all ministries and state-owned companies on the basis of the comments made by the committee. Both of these matters required by the Audit Committee will be dealt with and implemented by autumn 2017 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u8	Mr President! State-owned companies are an important part of the Finnish economy. It must be accepted that there are always risks involved in economic activity, including in state-owned companies. Especially in recent years, derivatives trading has created situations in public organisations where risk management has failed and damage has arisen. In addition to knowledge, there has been a lack of instructions and their monitoring. This may have been partly due to the fact that financial institutions have offered rather complex derivative products, the risk assessment of which has been very challenging. Risk management requires expertise. Finavia, for example, has clearly experienced a skills gap in previous years, as the report of the Audit Committee also shows. It is important to provide guidance on the risk management of state-owned companies, as proposed by the committee. The management of state-owned companies and the government must be responsible for ensuring that the instructions are followed. The second opinion of the committee is that the Board of Directors should specify the operating principles of state ownership management, especially in wholly state-owned companies. The company operates in accordance with company law, but the State owner has specific principles and requirements that require the law to be supplemented by instructions. Despite the general decision on ownership policy, practices vary. In the case dealt with by the committee, expert views have differed. The report also shows that the same operator may have represented a different view at different stages of the process. These factors undeniably show the need for further clarification of the guidelines. The company is also suitable for the organisation of services by a public body if additional requirements for the use of public authority are taken into account in the company's and its corporate governance policy. Reforms are underway in which the number of publicly owned companies is increasing. It is important to discuss the principles of publicly owned companies. The review could be wide-ranging, including the principles of transparency and publicity. There could be justification for a broader application of the Publicity Act. It would increase confidence in the company as a public body in the way services are organised. The committee considers that the importance of the public interest in state-owned companies is emphasised when considering judicial processes. Even in state-owned companies, we cannot ignore the careful legal assessment of actions, which I understand the committee has also considered important. Even in the public interest of a state company, it is not wise to bring every dispute to trial. For example, Finavia has not succeeded in the processes it has initiated, as the committee states. The committee recommends that liability issues be resolved at the general meeting of state-owned companies. That is often justified. It is good to keep the roles clear so that the Board of Directors is responsible for operational matters, looking only at the interests of the company, as required by the Companies Act. The owner, on the other hand, can take into account the public interest. However, it is not always a problem. The management and the Board of Directors must also have full responsibility for resolving liability issues in the interests of the company. In my view, the owner should retain the right to demand from the government which he appoints, that it should decide carefully and also be responsible for the matters which belong to it. The committee has dealt with this unique issue at 33 meetings. According to the committee, the activities of the owner have been exceptional, but that has also been the case. The owner has had to be exceptionally active in the matter, since the disunity of the government was not convincing. In fact, the responsible owner had to demand the company’s care. However, the activity of the owner does not mean that the decision-making process of the company has ever been addressed. Mr President! I fully agree with the committee's proposal for a decision. It provides a good basis for developing the use of the company model when the state organises services and corporate governance. In developing the principles of ownership management, it is also possible to examine the ideas set out in the committee's report on the handling of the liability issues of a state company at the general meeting and whether the liability issues of a state company should always be resolved by legal means. Finavia Group's net sales and profitability strengthened to an all-time record in 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u9	It is now possible to make debatable statements, i.e. you can ask for replies by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u10	Mr President! It is good to note that the committee's recommendations are thus received from the government and put things in motion. Indeed, Finavia is working well at the moment, and I think that this responsibilities have been determined since autumn 2015 and things have been brought under control. There may have been some misconceptions in public, i.e. the complaint against the audit firm is not 33 million, not 30 million, as Mrs Rinne said today, but 300,000, which is a percentage of the amount involved. In my opinion, it should also be noted that: Finavia has not been successful in these actions and the decision of the District Court of Vantaa was very clear: different criteria have been used in court than VTV has used in these statements. The fact that we're making stupid decisions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u11	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister for his clear and good response and statement on these recommendations for action in the report of the Committee on Audit. The same applies to Minister Berner in his own speech. But, Mr President, this is quite an important question in the sense that the issue of Minister Berner's activities during the autumn of 2015 deserves to be clarified in this situation. First of all, I wonder how this change in opinion formation has arisen during the autumn of 2015 in relation to this audit firm. And when Minister Berner has stated on several occasions that he has not intervened in the company's affairs, then this report by the Audit Committee and this report and the State Audit Office report show that you have been active in this matter, how this contradiction
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u12	Mr President! We all certainly believe that Finavia's derivatives transactions were totally inappropriate for the state company — there is at least one thing we agree on here. The way in which these were started was also a step in the right direction: to seek the solutions that can be used to correct this and also to compensate taxpayers for the loss of the state company. But the big question now in this debate is that when Minister Berner came to the sticks, things changed. At that point, we began to slow down the activity that had been done before. Now a clear answer is needed — the Minister has, of course, the right to act 100% in a state-owned company, but it must be done openly and publicly — why you, Mr Berner, did not do this, but pressured the company’s board of directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u13	Mr President! As the previous speaker said, there is certainly agreement in this Chamber that risk derivatives are by no means part of the treasury management of a publicly owned limited liability company. And the Prime Minister also said very well that public limited liability companies do not usually vote, but so much I would add that what I have in mind about public limited liability companies and management in general is that sooner or later double-headed leadership also leads to problems — it must be mentioned. But I must ask — before we begin to assess the four ministers and what they are doing more widely in this Chamber — what, Prime Minister, you think is the role and responsibility of the Chief of Staff in this matter. However, the responsible ministry must have a long official view of how to influence and which mechanisms are allowed and which are not. I'd like you to consider the role of Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u14	Mr President! My estimate is that a single company — even if it is a state company — has such a detailed investigation over the years and ensures a very bad fit for this Parliament. Some might even say that it was a worthless play. [Ville Niinistö’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u15	Mr President! This is an issue that has raised a lot of public debate. This debate has focused on the decisions and possible mistakes made in 2015 and 2016. Arhinmäki here said that we certainly agree that derivatives transactions are not suitable for a state-owned company. Well, if this is the right conclusion, then we should also think,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u16	Mr President! The question arises as to why the actions were not taken forward in order to minimise the cost to taxpayers. First, the ministry appealed to hold a general meeting that never came. Since then, there was a direct ban on progress. Later, it became apparent that: Behind the back of Finavia's government at the time, there had been action. Without the decision or information of the Finavia Board, Minister Berner has negotiated a settlement agreement with the audit firm in November 2015. I ask you, Minister Berner: when you say that you have not interfered with the work of the government, the company, is this not, to the greatest extent, the intervention?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u17	Mr President! Hence, derivatives contracts concluded from 2009 to 2011 are in the background,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u18	Mr President! This is, of course, an exceptional trade in derivatives, but this is a very exceptional one, which is why it is both here in Parliament and in the public domain. The citizens' sense of justice does not mean that about 30 million are apparently the losses, that they have not received from the state's treasury, and then no one will take responsibility. In fact, even though responsibility has been sought, it must not be followed. This is not going to get people's sense of justice, nor is it going to get mine. On the other hand, it is quite intolerable if we have state-owned companies and they do not comply with and do not comply with the agreed guidelines and if we have companies in the ministries, in every ministry, then they will operate under separate operating instructions from one minister or from the officials in charge there. Here were clear instructions from the Ownership Steering Unit on how to proceed: Extraordinary General Meeting and Actions
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u19	Mr. Speaker! I believe that the committee has done a good job in this report, although it took a long time. As a former lawyer, I was very careful to get to know it, and there was a situation that was looked at from different angles, which had arisen by accident during several ministers and moved from positive to minus 70 million when it was decided that it was 34. I welcome the fact that Mr Berner has dealt with this matter properly. We had to figure this out. When I looked at the reports of esteemed colleagues of lawyers, I found that this is like a dispute: lawyers of equal value disagreed on the same issue, how to act and what responsibility each one bears. This shows that the legal owner of the company will always have a general meeting in his pocket,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u20	Mr President! I was called today by a highly respected audit professional. He stressed that it would be totally unacceptable if there were no liability for such a course of action. Contrary to Minister Berner's claim, he has actively intervened in Finavia's decision-making to the detriment of the company and possibly taxpayers. The Prime Minister is the Minister of Ownership Control, so it is important that he defends the procedure. The line is therefore that it is appropriate for the Minister to intervene in the independent decisions of the company’s board of directors, and the line is also that the State does not seek compensation for damages, even though the company’s board of directors was unanimous in this action, not divided. This audit professional said that this does not correspond to the citizens' sense of justice: every euro that can be cut off from the poor is acceptable to the government, but when compensation is demanded from the company, it is simply abandoned. I can't agree with you. Prime Minister Sipilä, do you think that these — this line and this action — have been entirely correct with regard to Mr Berner?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u21	Mr President! This is a very large and fundamental issue, and it is good that the Audit Committee has done a good job and that the government has also contributed well to it: how to ensure that practices in the future are such that such risk investments are not carried out by state companies at all, and, on the other hand, the practices ensure that such risks, such as these, do not arise by accident. But what we need to go through more closely in this debate is the political responsibility for autumn 2015, and I would like to hear the Prime Minister's view and Minister Berner's view that if the official view of the corporate governance was, however, that these actions should go forward and the general meeting should be organised, then why was the second outcome and what was the role of Minister Berner in it and what was Prime Minister Sipilä's awareness of this, because you too, as the Minister responsible for corporate governance, are a relevant player here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u22	I would also like to give the following answers: Mr Uotila and Mr Ala-Nissila. After that, the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u23	Mr President! I very much regret that such matters should not be interfered with, that this is some worthless play. As a member of the Audit Committee, we here in Parliament when we legislate and when we decide on Parliament's budget, we want to ensure that when we make laws and budgetary decisions, the money goes for the right purpose, and the reports support that purpose, not to mention statements. It is the task of the Audit Committee afterwards to consider that the will of Parliament and the legislator have been done and that the common tax money has been used in an appropriate way. And it is only natural for such processes to be put in motion in this scale of work and for the taxpayer's interests to be defended by such a process. This isn't the only one. A rather strange turn of events took place in the so-called asphalt cartel case, when suddenly the appeal was dropped to the Supreme Administrative Court, even though the appeal was already
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u24	Mr. Speaker! Yes, it has been done: there has been an arbitration procedure, there has been a complaint to the Financial Supervisory Authority, there has been a criminal investigation, and two actions have been brought on that basis. Nowhere has Finavia been successful. In respect of these 33 million, a damages action has been brought by decision of the General Meeting, on the basis of a very careful report by the Board of Directors of Chairman Sailas. It will be seen how it will turn out. As far as the auditors are concerned, for this 33 million, the action is still open. In other words, this matter will be clarified quite thoroughly by the decisions of the general meeting. I say to Mr Haraka that I too am an agronomist in this field. You might want to read Eero Prepula's statement, he's probably the best in Finland because he's been working at the Central Chamber of Commerce for over a decade to sort out such matters. His opinion is perfectly clear: there is no legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u25	Now for the Ministers' replies. Let's start with Minister Berner and then the Prime Minister. — Minister Berner, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u26	Mr President! I understand very well that this is a complex and challenging whole. But when I became Minister in the summer of 2015, what was Finavia’s derivative situation? It had then been decided not to bring actions against previous governments, and it had also been decided that investigations would be carried out that had never been carried out. [Department :Oh! ] Instead, in the summer of 2015, when I took up this task, I asked if a police investigation had been carried out. No, it wasn't. Had there been a request for clarification of the activities of the banks to the Financial Supervisory Authority? No, it wasn't. Was there a well-considered causal link, i.e. had there been an assessment of the damage caused by whom when 2009, 2010 and 2011 were different decision-makers, different compositions of the board and different auditors? No, it wasn't. At the time, I suggested to the government that it would be a good thing for the company to carry out these studies and then take a stand. My activity has been that I have asked and demanded from the board of directors that it carry out a sufficient number of studies. [Right: Right! ] My second activity has been that I've been asking for advice. I myself actively sought advice from the State Audit Office and asked for advice from the State Ownership Steering Department. I invited them to ministerial meetings and meetings, and they were allowed to attend everything. This seems to me to be transparency, but it is also intersectoral. For that, I am sure I take responsibility for receiving conflicting instructions and then having to assess myself, and I have never shirked my responsibility at any time. However, in spite of all this, I have not taken part in the decision-making that is the responsibility of the company, but have required the company to clarify and then take responsible decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u27	Mr President! Indeed, from the point of view of state ownership control, there are two things here: Firstly, there is this issue of risk management. When I go through these guidelines, the guidance that companies' governments are required to carry out a risk assessment has indeed been at a good level, in my opinion, since the year 2000. What we are now going to find out is whether these guidelines have been put into reality in every company in such a way that every year that assessment is made. I think it is obvious that the board of directors, which is responsible for risk management and risk assessment, will also do so. Well, here's the other half of the questions. It is obvious both to Minister Berner and to me and to the State Ownership Steering Unit, where there is operational management, where the responsibility for the decision-making of the government and where the ownership is. But I wonder if it's always obvious in this room. As Minister of Ownership Steering, I myself have answered the written questions of the MPs. If you read these questions, we will be obliged there to take a stand on operational matters. For example, Mr Skinner asks what I intend to do as Minister of Ownership Steering to ensure that VR Track, VR's subsidiary, has participated in a specific tender. I think this belongs to operational management, not necessarily even the board of directors, let alone the owner. Yes, we have these roles that are constantly getting confused here in the debate. If the owner is dealing with a situation in which the company's board is clearly uncertain about its own decision, even votes and changes its position, then I think it is absolutely right that the Minister responsible for corporate governance should go and ask for careful action: assess now what changed your position, which is the reason why, exceptionally, the government cannot reach agreement on an important issue concerning the company. Then, after all, these are always easy to evaluate. This would probably not be on the table if it had become a profit. This committee report states that if this had been stopped, for example, as early as February 2013, the loss would have been only 7 million, or at the end of 2013 it would have been 5 million. If it had been addressed in the spring of 2015, it would have been 70 million, now that it is 34 million. We see here how uncertain a tool this was. This value of a derivative varied so much, and the timing when it was decided has quite a big economic significance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u28	Then we will take the next round of replies. You can ask for speeches with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u29	Mr President! If you look at the activities of Minister Berner, your own reports to the public that he has not interfered in any way with the activities of the board of directors of this company, and then you look at this report of the Audit Committee, it becomes quite clear that Minister Berner has, without the government's knowledge, negotiated a settlement agreement with Deloitte and then decided to take the matter forward in such a way that, in fact, the board of the company, Finavia, has had no choice but to accept this model. In my view, this is clearly a question of the fact that Minister Berner has been active and that this action may also have caused damage to the State and the company. That is why I consider this to be an extremely important issue for discussion here. I am very surprised that, when it was known that the Audit Board of the Central Chamber of Commerce will take a position on this audit firm's activities two weeks later than the decision was taken before that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u30	Mr President! Minister Berner has acted with expertise and expertise in this regard. This problem of Finavia came into his arms, and the last three ministers could have intervened, as the Prime Minister said here, on this issue. It is a pity, in itself, that there is an attempt to go to public trial in a situation in which the Minister has quite convincingly explained this situation and the government has also taken good account of the unanimous proposals of the Committee on Audit for the future. So this worthless play, which is done here on the left, does not serve the interests of the company, nor does it serve the interests of Finnish democracy. You sometimes insist that the Minister should intervene in some kind of operational state-owned company, as the Prime Minister said, and you ask why the government does not intervene, and now you say that too much has been done since then. So now, at least a little bit of consistency, even a little consistency, could be expected from you. I think Mr Berner has the full support of the parliamentary group and he is a very competent Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u31	Mr President! Mr Kaikonen is calling for this to be here and for the debate to be closed, and he says that this happened between 2009 and 2010. I don't know if Kaikkonen wants to remember who was then Minister of Transport, or whether he wants to do it on the stand. But yes, this is a big question that needs to be properly dealt with here. Now you're trying to clean up this mess under the carpet. The big question is that, according to the State Audit Office, the Ministry carried out activities to be interpreted as operational, the decision-making and execution of which are the tasks of the company and its management. This despite the fact that Minister Berner has always implied that he does not have a big role to play. When you look at this report by the Audit Committee, it shows very clearly that Minister Berner has played a much bigger role than he has suggested in public. And yes, we have to go over why Minister Berner is trying to hide himself from the public.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u32	Mr President! Derivative transactions since 2009: Minister Kyllönen was the minister in 2011-2014, as the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u33	Mr President! As Mr Kaikkonen here wanted to point out, these started out in the days of Minister Vehviläinen. Before Berner, there must have been three transport ministers, and all of them have had a clear line: we need to find out the background, minimise the damage and take it forward legally, intervene in what Finavia has done and which is unacceptable. This started out, as was the case with Minister Kyllönen and the next two transport ministers, but, Mr Berner, you stopped this operation. You have given the public the impression that you do not have a role in this, but when you look at the opinions of the National Audit Office when you look at the report of the Audit Committee, it is clear from them that you have played a much greater role than you suggest. You have exercised power, but you did not want to take responsibility for that power.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u34	Mr President! Now that archaeology is being carried out, let us now go over this list of ministers, which is what it is, if those responsible are to be applied for. I, too, find it quite incomprehensible that when things have happened years ago, this person is now wanted to get caught up in all of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u35	Mr President! It is quite true that if you look at the comments made by this Inspectorate, then everyone agrees with these rules of play, proper governance and governance, as is the case with both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport, but why does it say here that, in the opinion of the Inspectorate, the ministry's activities in this regard have meant that the company's management and operational decision-making are mixed in an inappropriate way? Which is true: what the Inspectorate has told us here, that these roles have gone completely out of control, that the company's operational activities have been interfered with, or is the truth, which is the goal of how good governance is actually handled?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u36	Mr President! As has been shown in many speeches, corporate governance in the state company is quite challenging. On the other hand, there is a lot of pressure to intervene in operational activities, but this is still legally impossible. I myself have been involved in this work in the Audit Committee, and we have been very thorough in dealing with this throughout this history. As such, I think it is a very good thing that, in the autumn of 2015, this issue was tampered with and wanted to end this derivative mess at last. But what's important is how we do it. This has been done in a way that is contrary to good governance and contrary to the corporate governance policy, and that is what we need to discuss. And it is not that if there were no losses, this should not be addressed. Of course, this must be addressed when the instructions are not followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u37	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Audit is an exceptionally careful piece of work — I have been involved in various inspection tasks for 16 years — and there was mention, among other things, of Prepula, which is considered to be the absolute number one in the kingdom, his statement has also been significant. This assessment has been made particularly difficult by the fact that there have been four different ministers over the last four years, and then we will have to look at the surfaces to see who has been responsible for what. In this regard, the Audit Committee has drawn the right conclusion; it has found a wide range of shortcomings in how administration has been recorded. Decisions have not been recorded; they should be recorded more carefully. And the committee's proposal for a decision is absolutely excellent: "This is why the Audit Committee requires the Government to specify the principles of State ownership control in wholly state-owned companies, to define what is permissible and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u38	Let's hold on to this minute so more people can make it out loud.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u39	Mr President! The Prime Minister has already explained very well to us what measures have been taken by the government on the basis of this unanimous report by the Audit Committee. Similarly, Minister Berner has explained in great detail what has happened in practice. And I really hope that we will listen better to each other. There is now such a guilty attitude and a starting point in this debate, and I do not believe that there is any basis for this guilt based on a unanimous report. It is true that these guidelines are needed for the corporate governance of state-owned companies, and they are done. And what came out of the committee is justifiable. But instead, these problems fell into the arms of Minister Berner. He has been in no way involved in these matters when these derivatives have been made — it is worth bearing that in mind. His task has been, quite rightly, to demand careful clarification, and the government must carry out the duties which the government should carry out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u40	Mr President! Of course, it is clear that Minister Berner has an interest in this matter, but the rest of us must try to look at this issue objectively, as we have done in the Committee on Audit. And the background here is the legality audit report of the National Audit Office, on which all this work is based. And the fact is that this report and vision of the National Audit Office is very different from what the Minister has said here today in Parliament, including the role of Finavia's management. However, when the Minister recently questioned the handling of matters, the audit agency’s position is that Finavia’s management has acted consistently and appropriately to settle derivative liabilities. As far as the role of the Minister is concerned, the Audit Office notes that the Ministry of Transport and Communications, during the negotiation of the Convention, has carried out activities which are to be interpreted as operational, the decision-making and the performance of which are inherent in the tasks of the company and its management, and the Audit Office has also called into question this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u41	Mr President! This has happened in the way that employees and employees in a state-owned company have used such dangerous and inappropriate derivative instruments and has led to this situation, which has been clarified. Furthermore, what we have also learned from this report on page 9 is that if a left-wing minister had reacted at the end of 2013, the damage would have been only 5 million. Now they're something else. During the time of the Red Red Government, three ministers have become involved in this matter, and now Minister Anne Berner has tried to clarify the matter and put things in order there at Finavia as they should be. That is what I would like to mention in this debate: it is not always complicated civil disputes that are brought to justice without, for example, considering the risk of expenses. On this issue, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a risk of millions of euros being spent. It is not a loose start to take actions forward — when business law professionals are on the move, the cost of legal proceedings can actually go up to millions — and that too is the taxpayer’s interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u42	Mr President! The Minister can't act like the owner of the company with regard to the state company. The company is owned by Finns. The minister should represent them. Thirty-four million dollars went missing with this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u43	Mr President! It is very good that the minister has been very determined to remove and deal with the problems that Finavia has created. It is good that the risk management of state-owned companies is now being clarified in greater detail. I also think it is very clear here that this kind of inability to deal with this type of problem, such as last season, cannot be allowed any longer. It is quite clear that I think that last season has gone quite a long way. When you listen to this debate, of course, you might also ask whether the government of the last season neglected the government's corporate governance, but I don't mind asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u45	Mr President! I think it is very important, without any blame, that these issues are now being clarified and that they can be evaluated openly and publicly. Ministers' activities and the activities of state companies must be daylight-proof, and — which is particularly important — policies that are jointly accepted must be followed. And as has been said several times here, this process must be learned and a common understanding of what is acceptable according to the principles of corporate governance, that the guidelines are followed, that they have been put into practice and that all actors have a common understanding of how to act. I also think it is sensible to consider compliance with the law on publicity in state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u46	Mr President! It really confuses me when you listen to this conversation. What seems strange about this is that there is only one thing here that we fully agree on, namely that you have asked for opinions on that agreement. But now, according to the report, there have also been statements from other lawyers but they would not have been taken into account at company meetings. This seems rather strange to me, and it does seem to me that the Minister has been involved at the time, that these other statements have not been taken into account. So I ask you: have we been taken into account or have we not been taken into account? With this information so contradictory, the unfortunate question now has to be asked how is it now, whether it is not true or whether it is using alternative truth, the wording of the report or what the Minister has said in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u47	Mr. Speaker! It is obvious that there is a need for professionalism and long-term management. It clearly exists and more than before, under the leadership of Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Berner, during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u50	Mr President! After all, we are talking about the real issue of taxpayers' money and public confidence, which is why people cannot get the impression that problems are being swept under the carpet or that the guy is being let off the hook. After all, we are talking about the failure to bring actions in autumn 2015, and unfortunately the question arises as to whether this is now in the interests of taxpayers or Deloitte. President! I believe that the committee will come to the right conclusion when it says that it would have been wise, in the interests of the general good, to rule by law. Unfortunately, this did not happen. I would now like to draw your attention to the fact that when you read these expert opinions attached to the committee's report, it is quite clear that, for example, the National Audit Office, corporate governance has had completely contradictory views on how it should have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u51	Mr President! As we have heard and seen from Mr Heinäluoma's speech here, the Audit Committee has done a very precise and good job. That is why I feel somewhat bad that now, Mr Heinäluoma, your fellow party members and the rest of the opposition seem to be pulling down your extremely good work. The Audit Board has come to good conclusions and they say it is good to live. This report states what has been said here in many speeches that the 2011 and 2014 years have been problematic precisely because of the change of ministers. Ministers Kyllönen, Virkkunen and Risikko did not intervene in these matters at all during their own seasons, but Minister Berner has now put the cat on the table and dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u52	I now give the answers to the representatives of Rinne, Harkimo, Östman, Ala-Nissilä and Heinäluoma, and then the Ministers' replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u53	Mr President! In the light of this debate, it seems very clear to me that until that autumn 2015, there will be a great deal of consensus on what has happened, and it is probably well described here what has happened here since the change of ministers and all this has happened. But the disagreement that currently exists in this Chamber relates to what happened at that time in the autumn of 2015. Until then, Minister Berner also felt that the actions should also be brought against this Deloitte, but something happened then in the autumn that the minister ended up in a different way to resolve a matter which has led to the action of the government behind its back, without the government being even aware that such reconciliation negotiations were taking place, and which led to the conclusion of an agreement which now prevents Deloitte's responsibility being settled. That is the real point of the dispute on this issue, and that needs to be clarified. This is a serious procedural error.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u54	Mr President! The total loss is over 30 million. Now we are talking about Deloitte’s responsibilities, which are 400,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u55	Mr President! When derivatives are traded, profits are sought, but there are also risks involved. If the government had made profits, we would obviously not be having this debate, which we are having today. Mr Korhonen asked whether the previous government had failed to discharge its responsibilities when the matter had not been addressed. The answer is yes, and so has the previous government. It's a fact. Someone had calculated that now the government has lost over 30 million. That's not true. In fact, the State has lost 65 million, because if this had been addressed in time, then we would have lost only 5 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u56	Mr President! What is relevant is whether the company has followed its own instructions. The Finnish National Audit Office has applied the old guidelines of the Finnish Aviation Agency since 2001. On the other hand, Prepula has stated that the independent district court has taken its decision in accordance with the guidelines it considers to have been in force for the period 2008-2010. So I also think that one of the essential conclusions here is that — VTV is carrying out inspections, not criticising it — there should be company law expertise and, in my opinion, authorised auditors, because these are a little difficult issues. We have seen problems here. The report does not say that there has been a violation of good governance, but there are, of course, always problems in this process along the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u57	Mr President! Will a little longer be allowed to speak in this context? [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : The President of the Commission has been ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u60	Mr President! I take great responsibility for acting as the Minister of Ownership for Finavia, specifically for taxpayers. In 2013, Finavia's Board of Directors record that after a discussion, the Board decided, on the basis of expert opinions, to authorise the CEO to take action against the former Financial Director and the former Vice President. However, these measures were never launched, and when I started this task, this protocol was signed but there were no measures. In January 2015, when I was not yet a minister, but only six months later, the Board of Directors had decided that the legal responsibility of the former members of Finavia's Board of Directors and the CEO has already been carefully assessed in the past, based on several legal expert opinions obtained outside the company. The government has not been informed of the reasons why the assessments already made should be amended in this regard, i.e. to bring actions, contrary to what you, the chairman of the committee, said. So from January there was a decision in the government protocol which I have before me that the government has previously made that report, and this has been the logical position of all ministers and all previous reports that no action is brought against the members of the government. What changed in the autumn of 2015? This same government, which, in January, I think on the 31st, had registered this sentence in the Minutes, took a unanimous decision in September, in which it decided to bring actions, but the three government lawyers left a different point of view. It was only at this point that the Minister woke up in owner guidance to ask what this means: Why is there a disagreement with the government's decision? Why is it different from the decision taken by the same government in January? What additional information has been obtained in the meantime? Any further clarifications? — No, it wasn't. The police investigation had just begun, but there was no record of it. No report had been submitted to the Financial Supervisory Authority. No further external independent study had been carried out. There was no new information. Would it have been right at this point to ignore this change? This is the one that changed in the autumn of 2015. The government made a contradictory decision and disagreed with it, and three of the government’s lawyers left a different position in which they called for further clarifications by the company. As the owner and as the owner's representative, I did not intervene in the decision itself, but I said that before the company implements this decision, which it may, of course, disagree with, it must take account of the views of the different lawyers and make the explanations that have been demanded by those who have adopted different positions within the government. And if they still agree then the owner will not interfere with this decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u63	Let us take the Prime Minister's speech at this point, then I will give you a few replies, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u64	Mr President! As we heard, Minister Berner has acted responsibly and carefully. The fact that the Board of Directors, as the representative of the state-owner, is demanding that it act responsibly and carefully and make the decisions based on clarifications and diligence is exactly what is expected of the responsible owner. As far as this report and its obligations and expectations regarding corporate governance — this aspect of risk management — are concerned, risk management is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, the operational management is responsible for implementing the strategy and policy adopted by the Board of Directors. Now that this has become a suspicion on the basis of the report by the Audit Committee, the prevailing practices of all companies will be clarified and we will continue to insist that companies have an up-to-date, up-to-date risk management policy. The instructions are in order, but now we check that all companies are in good condition as well. Then, with regard to these ownership practices: of course, they must be uniform, and I have asked the Ownership Steering Department of the Prime Minister's Office to assess the need for guidance and, if necessary, to redefine all ministries and state-owned companies on the basis of the comments made by the committee. Minister Berner enjoys my 100% confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u65	Mr President! I am now asking Minister Berner who has negotiated that reconciliation agreement with Deloitte and, according to whose instructions, it has been negotiated. Has it been negotiated according to Finavia’s Government’s instructions by Finavia’s staff, or has it been negotiated by the Minister of Transport’s officials according to the instructions given by Minister Berner? This is a very important question, and we must have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u66	Reply, Mr Heinäluoma, and then the Minister responds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u67	Mr President! After all, the Audit Committee carefully reviewed Finavia's Board of Directors' minutes in order to get a picture of the logic on the company's side, plus then, through expert opinions, looked at many different ideas on how this matter should have been handled. I would now like to quote, once again, on this action for damages, as stated by the Ownership Steering Unit of the Prime Minister's Office on 19 November 2015 in its statement and presentation to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. They then submitted a memorandum to the Ministry of Transport and Communications with recommendations for action. According to that memo, "The successful conduct of an action against auditors would be enhanced if a claim for damages were pending against the company's former CEO and members of the Board of Directors, because the auditors in their defence have relied on the company's management's primary responsibility. A liability claim against an insurance company requires that an action be brought against at least the former CEO." This was the change that had taken place in early 2015 at the end of 2015. Eli had come to an arbitral ruling in the case of insurance companies, and the auditors had also threatened a counterclaim, precisely because the company had not taken action against the other management. These explain, these two things, the position of the Ownership Steering Unit of the Prime Minister's Office and also the position of the company's Board of Directors on the matter in September.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u68	Mr Berner and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u69	Mr President! Deloitte’s contract was negotiated by the company’s CEOs and was decided by the governments of both companies. The role of the Ministry of Transport and Communications in this section has been to bring the parties together at the same table. It's been a part of it. What then relates to the Annual General Meeting: The Annual General Meeting was held in the summer and was held precisely because by then the reports needed had been completed. It should also be noted that the Annual General Meeting at the time, summer 2016, specifically required a careful explanation by the management of the company as to whether the actions for 2011 could be taken forward. This was contrary to the company’s own decision by the Board of Directors, and in this case and at the point when the time was sufficient and the explanations received, the owner took a position and made it through the General Meeting. At that time, the company made this report, used the autumn 16th to do so and made a decision in November to bring an action against the former CEO. This action is still pending.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u70	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u71	Mr President! We are currently debating this report by the Audit Committee on the situation in Finavia. I think it is important that this issue was brought before us because it is a major state-owned company. The committee has done a good job and it is a matter of social importance. Finavia's then Board of Directors spent a lot of time clarifying the responsibilities of derivatives. The aim was to settle matters mainly through legal processes and to get those responsible for derivative losses and management liability insurance to at least partially compensate for the losses suffered by the company. This would be the way every careful company would operate. Finavia's Board of Directors filed a claim for compensation against the audit firm and the Chief Auditor for the years 2009-2010. Finavia had already brought an action against If P & C insurance company, but the application was rejected. It was possible to continue the compensation process, but only in such a way that actions should also be brought against the former Board of Directors and the CEO. The company consulted with the National Audit Office, which supported the filing of complaints. Consequently, Finavia's Board of Directors decided to bring actions against the company's former CEO and Board of Directors and decided to institute an action for compensation in the arbitration proceedings against If. This situation had come about because, among other things, the district court process had revealed elements in support of the claim of negligence on the part of the former government and the CEO. However, this was never achieved in the process. Minister Berner intervened inappropriately in the work of Finavia's Board of Directors and thus influenced Finavia's Board of Directors' decisions to settle and cancel derivative actions in December 2015. First, the Ministry appealed to hold a general meeting on the matter. This general meeting never came. Since then, there was a direct ban on progress. Later it became apparent that behind the back of the then Finavia Government had been taken action. Without the decision or information of the Finavia Board, Minister Berner has negotiated a settlement agreement with the audit firm in November 2015. Berner has pressured the Chairman of the Board of Directors to approve the reconciliation agreement negotiated by the Ministry in Finavia's Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u74	Mr President! As I said in the debate, we all agree that Finavia's derivatives transactions were totally inappropriate for the state company. This was a huge risk to taxpayers' money and EUR 34 million came into the coat. I do not blame this then Minister for Transport Vehviläinen, namely that action was taken, which is what this debate is all about, precisely against what should be the operation of a state company. When this situation was revealed to the company and the owner, it was rightly decided to clarify the background, minimise the damage and take the matter forward legally. As the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, said, all ministers have taken this in the same direction: minimising damage, taking the matter forward legally. The aim was to recover at least some of the taxpayers' money lost through damages. So this was done during the previous ministers. When Secretary Berner got into the sticks, things changed. At this stage, the damages claim was already in a hurry as the court of appeal was becoming obsolete. However, the Board of Directors of Finavia unexpectedly withdrew the application against the company’s former Board of Directors, former CEO and audit firm after the ownership guidance by Minister Berner, which he denied in his speech — denied that the Ministry of Transport and Communications or the Minister had given ownership guidance on the matter. The law review of the National Audit Office said quite frankly what the case is: the Ministry carried out operational activities which are to be interpreted as decisions and which are to be carried out by the company and its management. So says the National Audit Office — here Minister Berner said that no corporate governance was provided. And if you look at the report by the Committee on Audit now before you, it will in fact tell you this too, although perhaps in agreement a little softer. The Ministry's activities were not in line with established corporate governance, the report states. Mr President! The report shows that the minister's role in the settlement agreement leading to the withdrawal of actions was much more active than the minister himself has said. And this is an issue that is constantly coming up when people are being discussed. People do not trust that what Minister Berner has said is the whole truth. "In the process of the Minister’s role agreement,the The conciliation process involves practices and situations which, in the Committee's view, are likely to confuse the management of the company with the decision-making of the company." When the Audit Committee has unanimously said this, I find it extraordinary that the Centre Group under the leadership of Group President Kaikkonen is trying to shout that we should put an end to the debate, there is nothing left to settle in the debate, I think that this is it. On the other hand, we must raise our hats to the parliamentary group in the centre and to the ministerial group in the centre. The whole group has been here to defend their own minister. In fact, there were hardly any speeches from other government parties in this debate to defend the Minister, except for Mr Harkimo, who gave Mr Berner the backing. But my respect for the center of the room for how many of them in this Chamber have even gnashed their teeth to defend their minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u77	Mr President! Finavia as a company has been in quite a turbulence for years, as is also stated in the committee's report. The focus has been on whether Finavia should claim damages and from whom. In the opinion of the Audit Committee, there are arguments both for bringing damages actions and for not raising them. However, one of the principles of the rule of law is that no action should be brought in the interests of certainty or on an experimental basis. Up to now, Finavia's derivative business has not been successful in the District Court in relation to the crime report, nor has the arbitral court, that is, both of them, come into the coat — there are also costs for the state. In the courts, the reasons for the decisions are, to the point of departure, different from those used by the National Audit Office in the case. This, too, is an interesting observation. After all, this district court ruling was now obtained in January. However, the report before us is about evaluating administrative practices and not about doing something illegal, even though this debate sometimes gives a picture. Finavia has not had enough expertise in the management of derivative transactions between 2009 and 2011. I think that is what we all agreed on here in the Chamber. During the last parliamentary term, Finavia's owner guidance drifted adrift. Things are now under control and Finavia is succeeding, and it currently has good management. In particular, Minister Berner has acted quickly and responsibly in his arms in the face of an unexpectedly difficult situation and has demanded care, which is quite right. Minister Berner has had nothing to do with a loss-making derivative transaction, although it is easy to draw the conclusion from this debate when moving around in these compensation figures and not to identify what is at stake. However, the losses resulting from these transactions and the mistakes made fell on the Minister’s lap. So during this parliamentary term, they have finally been resolved by him. And when much has been said here about these amounts of derivative losses, about the 34 million, and there is a demand for liability, would it not then also be time to clarify that it would have been very good for these losses to have remained in that 5 million? The previous government, the Katainen-Stubb government, is responsible for this, and for supporting the ideas behind it,that there might be some corrective action. Which means we should take responsibility for those who have been involved. The losses could have been minimized to 5 million. According to the unanimous report of the Audit Committee, the State-owned company must be given more detailed risk management guidelines, which are also monitored. This is an extremely important issue, because it is not enough that the guidelines exist — there must also be clear supervision to ensure that they are well implemented. Finavia's loss-making derivative contracts could not have been concluded if well-supervised instructions had already existed in 2009-2012. These instructions are necessary for a state-owned company more generally, and they are part of ownership management. Today we have heard from the Prime Minister how these matters are handled and how they have been addressed. However, according to the report, the principles of corporate governance need to be clarified. And finally, this reconciliation agreement with Deloitte. It was an accident of EUR 317000 — from EUR 34 to EUR 35 million in public. It would be extremely important for us to talk here as things really are. It is not a small wish, but I think it requires that we who bear responsibility also be responsible for throwing these figures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u78	Mr President! There has been a good debate here, thanks for its good management. After all, Parliament's Audit Committee deals here with the report of the Board of Directors to Parliament, the annual report of the National Audit Office, the reports on the supervision of party and election funding, and matters related to fiscal policy and auditing, and it can carry out its own investigations. The report before us is quite different in its nature. It should be noted that the committee is not a court of law. We do not have any advice from the Legal Affairs Committee or any opportunity to deal with evidence issues in any way. Of course, procedures can be dealt with. This report deals with the risk management and ownership control of state-owned companies. The committee reviewed the Audit Reports of the National Audit Office in relation to the risk management and operations of state-owned companies in general and listened to experts. In addition, the losses resulting from Finavia's derivative transactions in 2009-2011, in particular the losses incurred in 2011, were dealt with and resolved. The Legality Report of the State Audit Office and therefore the report will focus on 2009 and 2010, when these Finavia losses, as Mrs Anttila said, amounted to 1% of this total loss. This has been a lot of public focus on this percentage issue and autumn, and it has become a little crooked in this general picture. State-owned companies and other publicly owned companies are increasing, for example, in connection with regional government and social welfare reform. I think the conclusion is that the role of the owner is important. In principle, it should not be undermined, but it should be strengthened and clarified. For example, the reform of social welfare and health care is creating a large number of companies owned by the provinces. The competence of the owner guidance in relation to the company's competence requires clarification in order to ensure the line and consistency of ownership control in all situations, as our committee rightly states in that part of the decision. In other words, I agree with the report and these good proposals for decisions. It is good that the Prime Minister took them so well. Of course, making derivative transactions should have been avoided at Finavia. In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the company did not have sufficient expertise in the management of derivative transactions and their clearing up. There's always a risk. It is important that they are identified, and it is important that they are managed. The biggest risk of derivative transactions is the wrong interest rate perception, which many received at the beginning of the decade. Doing so, therefore, does not justify damages or crime, as does stupidity in general. If stupidity were a crime, we might be in jail here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u86	Madam President! It is a very exceptional process which we are discussing today, and it has been a very long process. I would like to thank the Committee on Audit for its long-suffering and, I am sure, also the President-in-Office for his very thorough examination of the matter, which is why I am counting on the opinions which the Committee has received and on the report which has been written. So it's worth reading them out of there for themselves pretty tight. In this situation and in this atmosphere, it would not be here today, in this Chamber, if the Minister's approach had been different,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u91	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say at this outset, on behalf of the entire committee group, that it was important to raise the issues of both Finavia and state ownership policy in general and the risk management of state-owned companies in depth. Secondly, I would like to point out that we are very pleased with the outcome of this unanimous report, and I thank the entire committee for this. As has already been pointed out here in previous speeches, the Audit Committee also dealt with these publicly presented Finavia's derivative contracts for the years 2009-2011 and related decision-making. In particular, I would like to draw attention to this aspect of the report's conclusion, which has been closely and succinctly highlighted in the main findings, shortcomings, shortcomings and proposals for solutions relating to ownership policy making and the risk management of state-owned companies. The above-mentioned derivative contracts have therefore caused significant damage to the State. Response to this identified problem has also been slow. The committee therefore highlights the central problem of the report that there is currently no separate guidance for state-owned companies on risk management. The Committee considers it important that the risk management of state-owned companies should be properly organised in the future and that the Government should provide guidance on this. In addition to this, it is, of course, the responsibility of the company's management and board to ensure that these guidelines are followed. In addition to this, in the report, the committee highlights the various situations that have been raised in this Chamber today and the differing perceptions of what would have been the right course of action for ownership policy making and whether something was a matter for the owner or the company itself to decide on. In the expert hearings of the committee, the views of the various parties differed, for example, as to whether the Ministry of Transport and Communications interfered inappropriately with Finavia in the preparation of a settlement agreement with the audit firm Deloitte and Finavia and as regards the waiver of claims for damages against previous management. In its report, the Audit Committee states that it considers the situation that has arisen to be undesirable and wants to avoid similar situations in the future. The Committee believes that it is essential for the various actors to have a common understanding of the policies adopted. The report therefore calls for the Government to clarify the operating principles of state ownership control, particularly in wholly state-owned companies, by the end of this year. Mr President! The corporate governance of the state must be strengthened and clarified. Transparency and transparency are also an important part of good governance. On the basis of the speeches made in this Chamber today, I would venture to say that Parliament is able to agree unanimously with the view of the committee that there is a need to put in place the ambiguities and misconceptions relating to state ownership policy making and the risk management of state companies. Finally, I would like to thank the government for taking decisive steps to put this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u92	Mr President, Fru talman! Whenever it comes to managing taxpayers' money and property, the demand for good governance and compliance with guidelines and rules must be kept high. As can be seen from both the legality audit report of the National Audit Office and the unanimous report of the Audit Committee, the principles of good governance and established practice have not been followed in the management of Finavia's derivative business, contrary to what you might have thought about this debate today, for example in relation to the Centre Group. It is a good thing that Parliament has gone through this matter carefully, because not only is there a single issue, but there is also a limit to how individual members of the Government can exercise their position and how corporate governance is implemented in such a way that it is reliable and sustainable for taxpayers. In the course of the proceedings, it has become clear that exceptional corporate governance instruments have been used, particularly in the autumn of 2015. The report of the Audit Committee shows, among other things, that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has also been actively involved in Finavia's operational activities in violation of the Ministry's own management guidelines. There was a debate here about whether the Minister was active or not. If and when you read the report, it will be quite clear from there — and other documents have also been available to the committee, both the opinion of the National Audit Office and e-mail traffic from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which shows this activity. On page 20 it says: "The role of the Minister in the reconciliation agreement process appears, on the basis of an expert consultation, to have an impact rather than to wait for the background. The conciliation process involves practices and situations which, in the Committee's view, are likely to confuse corporate governance with company decision-making." The Ministry of Transport and Communications’ understanding of what methods can be used for managing owners differs substantially from the concept of the Ownership Steering Department and the Audit Office of the Prime Minister’s Office. It is unacceptable that, in such a key issue, the different actors have a different understanding of acceptable policies. This cannot, of course, continue, and the Audit Committee therefore requires the Government to specify the operating principles of state ownership management, especially in wholly state-owned companies. Mr President! One of the major issues involved, which is of major importance to society, is the legal settlement of liability issues, i.e. the bringing of actions. The unanimous position of the committee on this issue is clear. The committee stresses the importance of the general interest when considering judicial processes in state-owned companies. However, Mr Ala-Nissila, Vice-President of the committee, resigned from this unanimous opinion of the committee's report, which is, of course, very confusing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u95	Madam President! As an alternate member of the Committee on Audit, I too have had the opportunity and the honour of participating in this joint report, and in this connection I must also express my thanks for the fact that we have produced a unanimous report, and also thank the chairman of the committee for the many patient hours we have had there within the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u107	Mr President! I do not know whether Mr Heikkinen is a candidate for the municipal election and whether he should have applied this censorship to himself now, but perhaps in the beginning I can say that I myself am not going to be a candidate for the municipal election, so everything I am saying here is an objective truth. Nor do I quite agree with the suggestion that the results of the work of the committee, which has done its serious work, are suspected in this way of being politically coloured. Let us now correct the fact that what Mr Rinne has said publicly — although this is also the journalist's own interpretation of President Rinte's statement: 'The discharge of the audit firm's liability led to the failure to settle the liability of the State for the damage caused by over EUR 30 million in respect of the audit firm'. It is difficult to see that there is anything questionable about this sentence. This is a description of what has happened. In fact, it doesn't even point a finger at anyone. But, as I said, telling the objective truth is now left to me. There are a lot of things that have gone wrong with this Finavia appeal. It was therefore necessary for the Committee of Auditors to try to make some sense of this confusion, and this work has been very important and commendable — thank you, too, on my own behalf. After all, some representatives from the centre felt that things should not have been clarified at all. I cannot sign up to this view of the responsibility and responsibility for managing public funds, as unpleasant as it sometimes is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u110	Mr President! The committee has done a very thorough job in drawing up this report, and that is a good thing, because it has been quite complex and has had very conflicting views on both the course of events and the conclusions. I very much welcome the fact that this report has been brought to this House as a whole, even though there have been some speeches here that should not have been done. It is quite clear that when it comes to such an important economic issue, to which we are trying to find clarity and to find the reasons why this has happened — not only in terms of the losses that have been incurred, but also in terms of the risk that there has been even greater losses — and it is indisputable that we have acted against the guidelines when these derivative contracts have been taken over, then I think it is quite right that we, here in Parliament, should deal with this issue together, so that we can also learn lessons from how to proceed in the future. The corporate governance of state-owned companies is difficult to check, and many ministers have noticed it before. We all know that we representatives also have their own wishes and are putting a lot of pressure on the fact that if something happens in a fully state-owned company, which we do not think is a good thing, we often put pressure on ministers to intervene in internal affairs, but that is not the role of corporate governance. The owner should not interfere with operational activities even if the company is wholly state-owned. That is why it is important that there is clear guidance in this respect, but as has been said here before, it is equally important that these guidelines are then followed up. And in this case too, there are some ambiguities on this point. The fact that nothing has been done in the past and only now would Minister Berner have been the person who would have taken active action to deal with this issue has been quite forceful in this debate. But as has also been said here and as the report says very clearly, this is not the case. As soon as these derivative contracts became known in early 2012, they were cleared by the company and all ministers who have been responsible for Finavia since then have been actively supporting the settlement. The priority has been firstly to minimise further losses and then only to address the fact that whose fault, and partly because of the fact that there were different time limits, there was a desire to ensure that there was no further damage. It is, of course, a good thing that Mr Berner also continued to do so and that he made sure that this matter was resolved to the end. But the problem with this explanation has been the way things have been used. They have clearly been contrary to how the owner can intervene in the company’s operations in such a general way. It has been unanimously stated in this report that the Minister has now acted in a way that is likely to confuse corporate governance and company decision-making. These questions have, of course, been that the Minister has been active in negotiating the reconciliation agreement, or in starting them, without the government being aware of it, past the government. On the other hand, the Minister has made a lot of decisions that have not been documented. This is actually the big problem in this whole long process and, above all, in state companies, if they are subject to ministries, because there people change. And if there is no documented decision-making, it is very difficult to find out afterwards who, how, why and when made any decision, if these decisions have not been brought to the general meeting, which is the way in which we should act. As has been pointed out many times here, this bringing of actions has been, above all, the subject of a very wide variety of views, and there have also been changes in views over time. Personally, I agree with this unanimous position in the committee's report: 'As far as fin-avia is concerned, the committee notes that, despite the uncertainty of the outcome, it would have been justified in the public interest to clarify the whole question of liability by way of legal action. However, this requires a careful and diverse analysis of the legal aspect of liability at all stages." That is how I see that, when we talk about common money, the responsibility is particularly great if we are to maintain the confidence of our citizens. Well, at no stage in the process has it been shown that Minister Berner has acted unlawfully, but, as the report also states, contrary to the general principles of good governance and corporate governance, or against those general practices, it has been done. We all know that, in addition to legal responsibility, political decision-makers also have political responsibility. In this case, I personally welcome the fact that this political responsibility will also be weighed and assessed here in Parliament when the Minister's activities are subjected to a vote of confidence. The Green Group will decide on its own voting behaviour at the group meeting tomorrow, and I will say no more about that at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u111	Mr President! An interesting case in itself is this kind of support for such investment activity, which, as far as I know, can only be done for hedging purposes. However, there has been more than a protection purpose here, it has been intended to earn, which is, of course, wrong, in a speculative way to obtain more state resources. Of course, if that were to happen, we would not be here. We would be happy. Once this chain of events has been cut off at one point, about halfway through what could have been born of it and was about to be born, of course it would have been logical to deal with it quickly. I do not think that it is enough for many ministers to say and demand that this be carefully clarified and that we should do so everywhere and then wash their hands, and then the Minister has not had the courage to do it himself, as Mr Berner has done now. It is a very good thing that there is such a vigorous and courageous minister who himself is doing the work the Minister deserves, and he will not try to survive later on because, yes, I have given an order that we should do well here. That is why this legal issue itself has apparently turned into a political spectacle. In my opinion, this report and the committee's report contain a number of points which look at each of the relevant issues on the one hand and on the other hand, and it is clear that there are a great many points in the history of this company that have asked for different expert opinions and that there has been no unambiguous opinion on issues such as liability and how to act. As such, this work of the committee before us has been done carefully, albeit with a great deal of time, and has come to conclusions that are right in themselves. But here we must have a clear policy so that such plays will no longer be played here. But when it comes to how the minister can intervene in the administration of a company under the minister's authority and either direct or instruct it, it is always important to remember that the minister is a walking general meeting. In what way should it be clarified? In this respect, it is important for the committee to see that documentation must be more precise and more precise, because the decisions of the Minister can be given to the company's board of directors and that is always the formal decision of the general meeting. It is interesting in this regard that, when the Ministry commissioned an expert opinion on the Legality Report of the National Audit Office, the Ministry asked the expert to assess whether the criticism of the Office to the Ministry was justified by private law, and according to the opinion, the unanimous shareholder has, on the basis of §2(2) of the Companies Act, the right to exercise the general competence of the Board of Directors or the Executive Director and has exercised the right of shareholdership. This leads to what the committee has later stated unanimously that according to the National Audit Office, the general starting point for company practices is that decisions of this kind are taken in writing. According to the expert report, because Finavia has only one shareholder, it does not matter whether it has held a separate general meeting or issued instructions on the same subject. In the company of one owner, the Annual General Meeting is always in session and the presentation of the owner's views to the Board of Directors is in practice the same as the closure of the general meeting. This is legal, and that is how it has been done. To Minister Berner, he has had the courage to clarify and raise this issue, and I warmly support him in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u112	Madam President! We have had a good afternoon on this issue. We must first thank the Audit Committee for the good work done under the chairman of the committee, Eero Heinäluoma, the chairman of the SDP, for the thorough work that has been done and for the work that has been done and the experts have been consulted. Indeed, the time has been spent here, and these final statements are excellent, this guidance on risk management and even more specific intervention by the board of directors. And it should be mentioned here that this parliamentary steering group has now also been set up under this government, which will certainly also be the subject of parliamentary discussion on corporate governance. Another point in this connection is that Finavia's corporate governance is moving from LVM to this part of the Prime Minister's office, i.e. the Ownership Steering Unit. These were good. But then, interestingly enough, after such a unanimous motion, we will have a motion of censure here. And I am thinking of this objective truth, as Mr Harakka asked me here, that it is one thing, and the other is the image we give to the people and taxpayers of this matter. This has now been brought up very strongly from the point of view of the SDP. Now this image of how much defeat this has become for the people is true. In other words, it has come to about EUR 34 million in all, and it has happened between 2009 and 2011. But it is now offered by the SDP, but also by Yle, that Berner, our Minister of Transport and Communications, is responsible for all 34 million of this. I wonder, and this has indeed come to light by Pia Viitanen and also by Antti Rinte and also by Ojala-Niemela today, and this veil is being maintained, giving the people the impression that this is the case. But if you ask here for objective truth, then the derivative losses were its 34 million, that is true, and the Deloitte agreement now under discussion concerned the damage caused by derivatives transactions between 2009 and 2010 amounting to EUR 317,000 — that is 34 million and 317,000. In other words, the majority of the damage caused, EUR 33.9 million, was caused in 2011. And these responsibilities are being clarified by the courts at the moment. That is what we, Anne Berner, the Minister of Transport and Communications, have worked very hard to ensure that things have progressed in this way. What has happened since the autumn and what has not happened is interesting: if decisions have been taken and they have not been implemented. And then when the Minister of Transport and Communications takes a lot of action and asks whether these and these studies have been carried out, whether police investigations and these have been carried out, then we will begin to raise even here a parliamentary inquiry. But the basic basis, as I said, is to get better direction in these matters. I hope it contains these various elements which we have available, and what the Prime Minister has said is that these measures go directly to the direction of our own companies, state companies, is very good. And I think that the debate was good until the debate today, but since then there may have been some other information and perhaps a different mind. But I see that we have a good minister who has taken hold of things and has gone on to deal with the past mess better than other ministers, which has been the case in the past — there would have been an opportunity to intervene earlier. Even in the wild west there was such a saying that neither the messenger nor the piano player should be shot. Here now it seems that we have this sort of liquidator and messenger who has the message brought, and that this is now being attempted to shoot in this situation. Even in the wild west there are better rules than in the case of our own operations. I hope this is the end of it. We're going to vote on Friday, and then we're going to get rid of all the chatter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u113	Madam President! When you look at this report by the Audit Committee, which is unanimous, and then listen to this debate, you get a little confused about what the point is. It must be remembered, however, that in this Finavia case from 2009 to 2011, the most crucial year was that of 2011. If the ministers of the last parliamentary term had managed their corporate governance and duty to move the good management of government property forward, the damage would have been substantially smaller. I have seen, somewhere, an estimate that the damage would have been no more than EUR 5 million. Unfortunately, this truth has not been so much on the public record. I regret that, for some reason, the media did not want to bring this up. I am even more surprised that Minister Berner has been raised to the beak of the stick. From 2009 to 2011, he was a business leader who worked very hard in his own company and in his own life for the benefit of Finnish society, and now he is being brought to justice by a stick. This logic does not sit in my head, ladies and gentlemen. I would, however, like to see some sort of value given to these facts. Minister Berner has now taken firm action on this issue, and, as the Prime Minister said in his own speech, this state-owned company's activities, the way in which the companies operate and carry out their duties and the state's property, are now being further specified. The parliamentary committee will sit down and monitor this to bring things up to date. I don't see anything reprehensible about it. It was a huge surprise to me that after a unanimous report there will be a motion of censure. Well, of course there's politics to do with it. Of course, I understand this time when there is little time for municipal elections — this too will be the case. But I would now like to say that if we agree on something, then let us agree and put an end to this unnecessary populism. But I think it's about this time of year. I hope that such a procedure will not become common practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u114	Mr President! Although the debate has been difficult, perhaps this has been extremely necessary in nature, and here the bright side is that there is agreement on most things, both on the course of events and then on responsibilities and also on the future. Here perhaps the way in which Parliament works in the committees, focusing on matters, clearing things up and drawing conclusions, will prove right. After all, the differences in the debate are specific to this autumn 2015. What happened before that, and also what has happened since then, is about the same view. Disagreements will then focus on whether or not to maintain these damages actions against the audit firm Deloitte and against the company’s previous government. On the basis of the information received by the committee, a few comments on the issues mentioned in the debate: First of all, the amount of these damage. It is not a question of what year there has been how much damage, but one can think as the committee has been told that if the 2009 auditor had looked inside these derivative contracts and asked for these risks, then in 2010 and 2011 no derivative contracts would have been concluded in this way. In other words, it cannot be thought that the auditor in 2009 and 2010 is responsible only for the damage that has been caused in that year, but also for those later ones. If he had done his supervisory role, these subsequent agreements would not have been concluded. Then the question has been whether this is normal or abnormal activity. All the information received by the committee is based on the fact that state-owned companies do not have speculative trading in the financial markets but, in the case of Finavia, the purpose is to act as a company serving air transport, and when there is a financial market, it is only acceptable to protect the credit received but not to seek returns. It has also been said to the committee that, of course, at a time when profits have come, it should have already been understood that, if there are returns, they will come without any risk. This question is also relevant in relation to the assessment of these derivative contracts and in relation to the assessment of how the company’s previous Boards of Directors have acted when the financial statements have been adopted at the time. A great deal has also been said about this judicial decision. It should be noted that the Court of Justice dealt with the abuse of a trust after the loss of the possibilities for damages, i.e. the two-year period after the person had terminated his employment, had expired and the company no longer had the possibility of damages. This abuse of trust was then investigated. In this regard, abuse of a trust and, on that basis, a judgment would require willfulness, and the decision of the court of appeal is based on the fact that such intent cannot be demonstrated that this was done deliberately in violation of instructions. So it is not possible to draw conclusions from the decision taken by the court of appeal as to what the judgment was in the case of damages. Well, then, perhaps there is still one specific issue to be addressed, which has been dealt with in passing. It concerns the work and role of the Audit Office. It is very important that we have an independent audit agency, which also monitors the activities of ministries, not only the spending of ministries, but also the activities of ministries in various tasks, such as corporate governance. After all, the committee has also gone through this work by the Inspectorate. It is worth hating that we have a bold, independent, professional audit agency that does its own work, so that Parliament has all the information available on the state's spending and that, in accordance with parliamentary decisions, the state's spending takes place and that taxpayers can also be confident that state funds are managed in a wise way. This also applies to the activities of state-owned companies. This process is a credit to this current role of the Audit Office, and it is important that the Agency is associated with Parliament and that Parliament is ultimately a guarantee that the Agency can do its work in accordance with its genuine findings without any pressure or fear. This is also important from the point of view that we as Parliament should take this independence seriously and be pleased that they have made these two thorough reports on the Finavia case. The Audit Committee went through this not only from a general point of view but also from a specific point of view, and then also made certain recommendations to the Agency, for example, regarding the way in which the staff of the Agency may be in a subsidiary relationship with audit tasks. These recommendations include the fact that it is not desirable for the staff of the Agency to carry out a secondary audit of the accounts of the companies for which the Audit Office is responsible. After all, this has not been the case in recent years, but it was considered appropriate to record this as well. Similarly, the Audit Committee also draws attention to the fact that it is justified that the Agency should pursue an information policy which is as transparent as possible. That is in line with the general information guidelines of the state administration and has also been the starting point for the Agency's activities, and it is equally important that this open information policy does not in any way anticipate the outcome of ongoing studies or reports. However, in the event that this debate ends at some point today, I would ask on behalf of the committee to thank the Members of Parliament for a rather good and, for the most part, constructive debate. There have been disagreements, but I think that's part of the nature of this job. The committee is very pleased that the opinions proposed by the committee during the debate have received the support of the whole of Parliament, of all speakers. It shows that the committee has been able to intervene in this respect and to find the will that corresponds to the will of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u115	Mr President! The Audit Committee has done a thorough job to clarify this issue, thank you for that. After reading the committee's report, it is not clear that the state should improve its own corporate governance and take better care of its assets. The activities of state-owned companies must be transparent and transparent and must carry out their own basic function, the purpose for which the company was established at the time. When problems arise, you should not try to avoid publicity and conceal information. It has now become clear that the Minister and Ministry intervened inappropriately in the work of the Fin-avia Board and influenced Finavia's Board of Directors' decisions to settle and cancel derivative claims in December 2015. The Minister led by Minister Berner thus intervened in the company's operational activities, pressured and maneuvered the government to take decisions in accordance with the Ministry's will, withheld statements from the government against the withdrawal of actions and finally decided not to take responsibility for the decision it had taken. Mr President! The public interest of taxpayers must always be given priority. The committee's report states: 'In the general interest, a thorough investigation of the matter by law could have been justified in order to resolve complex liability issues. Furthermore, it would have been justified from the outset to clarify the public profile of the case and the various responsibilities involved in the case and to bring matters before the courts so that the liability issues would not remain permanently unclear". After Finavia's Chairman's waning in January 2015, it was Minister Risiko's wish that this matter be continued on the line previously decided by the Government, to explore the various options, to seek compensation and to minimise the disadvantages. It is now apparent from the report of the committee that the owner had no comment on the decisions and actions taken by the company’s board of directors in the field of derivatives before September 2015. The policy chosen changed when Berner became Minister. We're left with a mystery as to why. Mr President! Even under the minister's authority, we are sworn to act in accordance with law and in a fair and impartial manner in the interests of citizens and society. Ministers are required to be honest. Citizens have the right to expect integrity in action as well. Citizens must be able to trust that they will be dealt with and that no one will be protected on the basis of their status or anything else. Many ordinary people have lost their jobs because of mistakes or are courted or liable for damages. This is how it should be at the level of the leaders. We're all equal. It is also important for social peace that confidence in authorities and decision-makers does not fade. Minister Berner's public statements on his own actions are at least misleading and incompatible with the testimony of the other parties concerned. There is an image for citizens that ministers are above common rules. I believe that the continuation of Minister Berner in the government is eating up civil confidence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u116	Madam President! A few more comments on this report from the Committee on Audit. In that debate, when the demars expressed mistrust of the government, one might say that they read the report of the Audit Committee and that it was a unanimous report, that the demars were actually expressing mistrust for the chairman of the Audit Committee, Eero Heinäluoma, and for the committee as a whole. If there has been an incompetence but then a positive and innocent statement is made about it, then I wonder a little bit about this course of action. I haven't come across anything like that yet in this house, but it seems that when you get older, there will always be new experiences — good this way. But I would like, as I said in my previous speech, not to become the custom of this country, but to be fair and to say things the way they are and to put an end to this pointless policy. Of course, there must be quite an order for that at this time when the elections are approaching. The second thing, then, is this agreement that was concluded with the audit firm Deloitte: Now the demars have indicated to the public that it would be a matter of EUR 34 million. That is not the case; it is a matter of over EUR 300000, which means that it has become a small misdemeanour for the leading opposition party. Of course, I don't think we're going anywhere to make this right. The media have suggested that it is 34 million, although in reality it is just over 300,000. I hope, however, that even mathematics in this area will be practiced by representatives of the opposition parties at least, so that those comma errors are not about 100 times more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u117	Madam President! I think that the previous speaker's interpretation of this trust is rather strange, since we in the Committee on Audit have followed the valuable way in which we have chosen to seek first and foremost:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u124	Mr President! I have to take a stand on this statement by Mr Hoskose. In other words, these data become clear when they read that Finavia suffered a loss of more than EUR 34 million on its derivatives as a whole. This is not just about Deloitte's share, it's about the whole. It's readable from here. Yes, it has become clear that there is exceptional corporate governance here, not in accordance with good governance and not in accordance with established principles. So the actions should have been brought in order to minimise the loss of taxpayers' money,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u125	Madam President! That's right, Ilmari-man, there's a saying. If at the time of the last parliamentary term the ministry had supervised and acted, the corporate governance was supervised as it should, then this problem would not be there, there would be no such problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u128	Mr President! Indeed, these losses came from 2009 to 2011 and were noted in 2012, which is reflected in these documents. Even then, the minister would have had the opportunity to limit their losses.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u131	Mr President! In honour of Mr Heinäluoma, it must be said that he has done this with honour and has the full support of the group in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u140	Madam President! When the expression is used here that the Minister has spoken the altered truth, I am absolutely amazed how we have, however, produced a unanimous report in the Committee on Audit and are now basing this motion of censure on the opposition towards Berner and saying that the Minister has spoken the changed truth. I'm amazed. But, Mr Heinäluoma, I would like to take part in thanking you for your valuable behaviour and for going through this matter in this Chamber. When you spoke about the fact that there has also been a good debate here, you are involved in the fact that it has been very good for you and for some of the opposition. Thank you for that. Here Mr Tavitsainen called for social peace and for the Minister to be able to demonstrate this motion of censure. How do you feel about this kind of procedure, as I say for my part as a political drama, supporting social peace? I really do not mean the report and the work of the committee, it has been good, and these efforts which the committee is putting forward are necessary, and they have been commended here by every front, but, in all things, we blame the minister who has come to grips with a problem that has matured during the four ministers. He has vigorously grasped this work and explained the patterns of what has been here during his period, and now it is said here that he speaks the modified truth. Despite the fact that a report has been submitted, which is unanimous, a motion of censure is being tabled. This is an amazing play.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u141	Mr President! Minister Berner has said that he has not interfered with the company's board of directors, but I can ask what more is this than interference if there is such a reconciliation agreement behind his back without the knowledge of others. In addition, Minister Berner has informed the public and the National Audit Office that he would have asked Finavia's Board of Directors to re-examine the issue of derivative actions carefully after the Board of Directors' decision in September 2015 on the company's former management. I say to Mr Tiuraniemi, the then CEO, that this is not the case and the Minister has not asked for further clarifications. So it can be said here that there is a word against the word in this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u142	Mr President! For the sake of clarity, I shall now read a few sentences in this unanimous report once again. The committee notes that "the role of the ministry in the reconciliation agreement process appears, on the basis of an expert consultation, to have an impact rather than an expectation of the background". In other words, the whole committee admits that it appears that things have been influenced, contrary to what may have been suggested in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u145	Madam President! The debate seems to have progressed here while I was prevented from doing so and I was unable to participate in this debate. From what I have learned from this previous debate, I have to say that this report by the committee is very much emphasised in the centre, and, indeed, there are very incriminating statements about the work of the committee on the part of the minister and about the violation of good governance. Just a quote: 'As far as finavia is concerned, the committee notes that, despite the uncertainty of the outcome, it would have been justified in the public interest to clarify the whole question of liability by way of legal action.' This is a very clear message, and it is understandable that it will also be reacted to here in the Chamber. "In addition, the public’s confidence that there was a lack of redress would have contributed to That is also what your unanimous draft opinion states.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u146	Madam President! I too stress the fact that the Audit Committee has produced a unanimous report. What are some of the things that have come up at this time that would change it? The question must be asked of how many wings the SDP is now trying to fly when it first joins the unanimous report of the Audit Committee and then operates in a different direction in its own way. There must be more political wings in this now. If some changes had been made along the way, the Audit Committee could always return to these matters. It hasn't come back. And now you're here to perform new operations like this. This is a rather extraordinary activity, but of course you have insisted on politicising this — a situation in which the current Minister, Mr Berner, has been dealing with the former mess of six different ministers, a mess that occurred during the last period in addition to all the confusion, the ministers also changed their ashtrays. All of this has certainly had an impact on the way in which the state's corporate governance has been handled, and also on how Finavia has been handled. Now that the minister finds out what's going on? First we drive with a unanimous report, then we operate with it. But politics can also be like this. This is what I am sure will confuse the listeners and the voters: you don't know what you're going to trust now that the esteemed committee has unanimously decided something and now you don't think it's relevant here anymore. More wings are not just fit for politics, but now you have to go with one wing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u147	Madam President! Indeed, when I looked at this unanimous report last night, I was in a way pleased that this issue too has received a unanimous line in the parliamentary parties and in the parliamentary groups on how to deal with these issues. Yes, I genuinely feel that, when Mr Heinäluoma, who I very much respect, suddenly receives a motion of censure in this House, even though there is a unanimous report, it was a real shock to me personally as to how to do this. Well, it's probably got its own reasons when you look at those calendars a little bit like what's going on this spring. But the other thing that is also remarkable here is that, as Mr Leppä said just now, under the hands of six ministers these things were during the previous government and yet nothing was done. If action had been taken then the fire would have been limited to much less, the damage would have been very little. But why didn't it work? And then when new systems are created, we'll check the instructions and we'll sort out the mess, and we'll charge these mess solvers. After all, it's a rather strange procedure. In this regard, when the demarcation MPs are calling for how people see this action, surely a person will think about why those ministers did not act at the time. A Finnish person understands reason and understands things in the right light. And if those people who follow this debate also note that nothing was really done on this matter during the last parliamentary term, then now it seems that when Minister Berner, who is certainly an innocent minister on this matter, is being attacked like a hyena, it is not fair. People know that. But I personally regard this attack on the chairman of the committee as the greatest miracle. It feels rather bad when negotiations have been made with Eero Heinäluoma in many areas — in many cases there have been disagreements, gentlemanly opinions, but there has been agreement on most things — and that is what will happen. It didn't feel good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u148	Madam President! I think today we have already discussed the extent to which the Minister of Steering can intervene in the company's affairs and in what way, and I am sure that this tone here has had a direct impact on the operational situation or not. But as Minister Berner himself said, there were a lot of decisions taken, they had not been implemented and he then questioned and directed the company to carry out various studies. That was one thing. The second thing is, of course, what the word against the word is when, after all, the Finavia Board of Directors has decided on this reconciliation agreement with the audit firm. At least in that sense the Minister has no role to play in this decision-making. So here we go, and I hope that, when these guidelines come from here in the future, they will be put into good use in all our state-owned companies. The message from the Audit Committee was quite clear. Let us put them into practice so that this debate does not have to take place again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u149	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u150	Madam President! The situation in the Sustainable Forestry Finance Act has been confusing for a long time. It is symbolic that 20 per cent of last year's Kemera money went into old law funding — indeed 20 per cent of that money. The picture is that last spring, when the new Kemera search opened, it became so full of applications that the search had to be closed after a week's period. Fortunately, the Committee on Finance then decided to increase the margin of payment so that the application could be opened in the case of seedling management. It is a good thing that this funding law on sustainable forestry is now being addressed, because the forecast is that the current legislation will not be enough money and will perhaps go to the wrong places. After all, the financing law for sustainable forestry is divided into three categories: ecological and growth-friendly support, support for the maintenance of the road network and forest biodiversity, and then environmental support for forest management. Now that this application has contributed to the management of the young forest, I would like to point out to the debate that, although it is a very fine thing that this aid is now being allocated to the private operators to whom it is intended, I would like the committee to be quite familiar with whether this support is being directed to something other than the original purpose, namely that those early young forests are being refurbished and that the energy wood market is working: whether this support is also being directed, as it were, as if it were, to the fibre market, which, naturally, ought to be working well, given that investment has taken place. I would therefore like to point out that we could consider whether we should perhaps change the limit of diameter so that this money would be sufficient. The most important thing is that we get those seedling waste done, that we will have that quality wood in the future. After all, the timber trade is already well on the rise. Of course, my perspective is that of Central Finland, and future investments there have certainly brought demand, but the same is true in the whole country. As I recall, the trade in wood grew closer to about 20 per cent. Amount summarum: Great that this support is limited to the owners of the private forest, and great that there will be a capping that the measures will have to be carried out within 12 months, even a little bit of this unnecessary application away from the limit. But now that the operators have learned that every time the search is opened, there will be a rush to apply for subsidies, it would therefore be important that this law, at the same time, should continue to be sufficient and sufficient, at least for the most important young forest management, and we would also be able to get the road network in the forests there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u151	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to amend the Temporary Financing Act for Sustainable Forestry. The Government's proposal is in itself an element of both the Government Programme and additional flexibility in the so-called Kemera Act. This is a fixed-term financing law for sustainable forestry and its amendment. The reform thus supports both the Government Programme and the national forestry strategy, so I welcome the proposal. The Government approved 16 this year. At its meeting on 1 February, the Commission presented a proposal to amend the Kemera Act. The aim of the law is to enable the trout’s early care work and the young forest management work to be carried out more quickly. This is especially in the interests of the forester. In the future, management measures will be taken within 12 months of the support granted by the Finnish Forestry Centre. This precise implementation time will help Metsäkeskus to assess the stage at which the subsidies will be paid. The reform of the law also aims to ensure a better balance between the number of applications and the number of forest works carried out in the future. In addition, Kemera support would be granted in the future only to private forest owners and not to funds, for example. That is a positive point. In the future, the duration of the nursing work can be provided for by a regulation if the Parliament approves the legislative amendment now under discussion. The tree grows from the seedling, so with the help of early seedling care and young forest management, we can ensure the good development of our forest resources and the basis for the evolving bioeconomy. Hopefully, with the reform of the law, we will also be able to secure some of the jobs of our loggers. It has been easy to see that the so-called lost lumberjacks will no longer return to the industry, even if they are needed. At this point, I would like to thank my own mother, who lasted so long as a lumberjack — thank you. Finland’s wooden feet have been in danger of breaking down precisely in the lack or inflexibility of Kemera’s concessions. As I understand it, things are going to get a little easier now. Last year, the congestion of project applications meant that the Ministry closed the funding application procedure a week after the application was opened. The restriction was not a lack of money but a lack of concessions. The reform is also intended to address this problem. I wish the performance success.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u152	Madam President! Many of the owners of the young forest have been agonizing over the lack of Kemera's concessions and inflexible conditions of support. The aim of this legislation under preparation is to correct these shortcomings and thus to speed up the early care of the seedling and other maintenance work of the young forest. There have been rumours that subsidies have been applied for and granted for, say, 10 hectares, but only 5 hectares have been managed, that is, half. The money allocated to the whole region is thus, as it were, waiting for the work to be completed and is, of course, out of the kind of forest owners who would manage the entire eligible area quickly. This money for 5 hectares may be there as if in a bank — if such a language can be used. In the future, management measures would be taken within 12 months of the support granted by the Finnish Forest Centre. In this case, this precise implementation period would help Metsäkeskus to assess the stage at which the subsidies will be paid and, as explained above, this grant would not remain an unnecessary deposit in the state's account. The aim of the draft law is therefore that in future the number of applications and the number of forest work carried out should be balanced, at least in a better balance. In addition, Kemera support would be granted in the future only to private forest owners and not to funds, for example. I think this is a very good and worthy thing. If Parliament approves the legislative amendment that has now been made, the duration of the nursing work may in future be provided for by a regulation. This, too, makes things more flexible and agile. In my view, this legislative reform, as Mr Kulmala said, will also provide jobs for at least some loggers in the future. Many loggers continue their actual final logging work by caring for young forests with grubbing-up, and when more of these pioneers come, it will also help to maintain these jobs. In the work of the committee, we should probably look at the effectiveness of this law throughout Finland, because – as is well known – in Lapland, Ostrobothnia or the representative Kalmar in Järvi-Suomi, Central Finland, there are quite different conditions, the wood is growing differently, and the need for these treatments is different. I think it is important that the law should be made flexible in taking account of the growth conditions of the entire long-term Finland. With these words, Madam President, I am in favour of adopting the draft law as a piece of legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u153	Mr President! I, too, understand that these legislative changes are well-founded and certainly contribute to the management of the use of the Kemera funds, and they must be put into effect as soon as possible and the call for aid must be mobilised in full. Looking at this current Kemera legislation, this new Kemera has now been in force for a year and a half, and I think this is the second change since that entry into force. Of course, it must be said that such rapid changes are a little problematic, at least they are not conducive to the pursuit of long-term forestry. But, of course, when there are problems, it is good that they can then be changed in legislation. I hope that these changes will now make it possible for the Kemera application no longer to be subject to suspension decisions in the future. Of course, when the total amount of Kemera is limited, we will have to wonder how the money will be enough. I believe that it is important for Kemera funds to be more clearly allocated to the management of seedlings, away from supporting first thinning fellings, which Mr Kalmari also referred to. In the future, support should be targeted at the management of smaller trees, and it may be possible to calculate the height diameter of the stock from the current 16 centimetres, for example, to 13 centimetres, or by any change of this type in any case. This change would enable these Kemera resources to be better targeted at forests that are most in need of management.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u154	Madam President! The amendment to the Kemera Act under discussion is probably just one step in the history of this patchwork law. The funding law for sustainable forestry could be said to be such a law that has gradually been patched up from there and here, and then the result looks like it. Now we are living in one phase of the construction of this patchwork. Now the law is being changed into a position where the communities with more than 50 per cent of their owners, i.e. ordinary Finnish people, are also considered private forest owners. If a company owns a minority stake in it, such a forest farm is also entitled to Kemera support. As such, a very good reform, which I warmly support, but I am sure that there will not be such a huge number of such facilities in the end. That this does not significantly improve the state of forest management in Finland if it does not get worse, but does it say that this is the patching up of one edge and not much more? Then that 12-month period exists here, that when the funding is approved by the plan, then there will be 12 months to implement the project, and then the regulation may, if necessary, change that deadline if the Ministry considers it to be the case. That's a valid change, too, but here's the red tape flower. At the time of my previous working life, when I was the advisor to the Forest Management Association, there was no need to plan, but only a contract was made with a forest owner who, for example, was treated as a seedling or a young forest was restored. Then there was an application for funding, a so-called implementation notice, and that was what it was all about. Thousands, thousands and thousands of hectares have also been clearing young forests and plants, and there were never any problems. Metsäkeskus checked certain sites, and the forest owner on his own side monitored that quality was good. In other words, there were already two inspections running practically continuously, and now that we have gone to this planning, I do not see this increase in bureaucracy as a good thing, but we should go back to the good old time when we had enough of the declaration of implementation and then the inspection by the sampling carried out by Metsäkeskus. Well, in any case, this is a retrospect because this current law, which is in force, is in force until the end of 2020 and it is self-evident that such patchwork legislation needs to be completely reformed in order to achieve a time when the Kemera Act works and quickly achieves great beneficial results for Finland's forests and, above all, it also serves the employment of people living in rural areas in its own way. That is another aspect to be taken into account. The problem we have today is that we have fewer and fewer people to work for this purpose. Very few young people go into the woods anymore, and the possibility that this Kemera Act has given the government a small contribution to this employment... It has been a very useful law for many dozens of loggers around Finland, but unfortunately this law too is now becoming so complicated that it is going to be rather difficult to put it into practice in those practical circumstances. In conclusion, Madam President, I very much hope that now that the next Parliament, in due course, will completely reform this Kemera law — and I think that, during this parliamentary term, there will already be indications of the position of the new Kemera law — it will only draw attention to the fact that the aim is to get these seedlings in order and to get energy wood from the forests to the roadside. It means, in Finnish, that, especially with regard to energy wood, we should give the Kemera support to the person or the entrepreneur who supplies those trees to the roadside — and not where we are going, and it has gone in the direction that the plant that burns those trees will receive that support. The worst example of this is the practice currently in force, where large forest companies from Russia import wood, which there are exactly three pieces of wood in Finland, from there across the border with huge quantities of wood chips. It receives two types of support: one is the energy support for electricity produced by the application and the other is the compensation for emissions trading. The amount of these energy subsidies, in terms of their interaction, is roughly under EUR 100 million, which, compared to this Kemera Act, is a huge amount — and for a cross-border application. This funding does not serve at all the Finnish forestry sector, so I hope, Madam President, that this big problem will finally be addressed. The large forestry companies do not need the subsidies mentioned just now, but go into the pockets of foreign investors because of the fact that two of the three major forestry companies are already foreign ownership. In other words, it does not serve Finnish forestry or the maintenance of the Finnish economy. And then another thing: that money would have a million times more important use in Finnish forests than in the balance sheets of large listed companies, which are already in reasonably good shape. If a policy of support is needed for investment, let it be managed through different channels, but let it not involve Kemera money or other money that has come into use for wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u155	Mr President! It is very good that this Kemera law has finally been brought into play, but this is the second time that we have to make a slight change in order to get these financial issues moving in the right direction. These changes are good, but I would have expected even more change to this, because, first of all, this treatment of subsidies by the authorities has not been managed in the right way. I am therefore afraid that too much of this money will continue to go into the running of this bureaucracy, because it has been very expensive and difficult to run red tape on control matters and it has taken a great deal of time. The second point, which is even more important to me in this Act on Kemera, is that when we did this law two years ago, it was already mentioned that aid for the regeneration of under-productive forests was excluded from the law. At that time we received a text from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the report that this issue should be clarified and might be taken into account later, but there has been no mention of this. Where are the studies of aid for the regeneration of under-productive forests that have been promised? That is what I am looking forward to and hope for, because we in the north and north-east of the country have had almost a complete halt to the regeneration of under-productive forests. We have very large areas that would require action and are expected to receive this money, and that is really necessary in order to achieve results. These areas are not protected areas, nor would they ever be protected, but, in the worst case scenario, the new forest law will allow their yield to deteriorate further, allow certain points to be removed and for their reform to be completely non-implemented. In other words, I will now be waiting for the next, bigger, more important thing for us in the north. We have major investments ahead of us — energy wood and other wood will continue to be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u156	Madam President! There are probably over 700,000 forest owners in Finland and a large number of them are still small forest owners. This Kemera decision and Kemera funding have a major impact on the activation of seedling management and the restoration of the young forest. I estimate that one third of our seedlings or the restoration of a young forest are on the way, and it is good to break these gaps. However, somehow I myself thought that forestry should be an economically viable activity, and the entrepreneur has the main responsibility for how it works in the forest. This is a good addition to it, and it activates it, but too often over the last few years, when we have been thinking about Kemera funding, we have been waiting to see whether there will be money or not, and there have been cuts. This has contributed not only to the work of our loggers but also to the accumulation of these burdens. It is good that this new legislation now has rats on this issue, that we have this system working. That is where Mrs Maijala just told me about this bureaucracy and the related issues, and I myself have been working at the Kemera site, and then I have received a decision of several dozen pages sometimes in the post office, and since then the money has come. These have been quite long, these processes when funding has been requested and received. So now that provisions are made under this, how bureaucracy works, I hope it will be more flexible in that regard. This private landowner issue is fairly clear. This is where I was thinking that this also affects companies owned by agriculture and forestry, and probably more of these will be formed in Finland. The point about small trees should be refined, though, that when these work is done there, how can this small tree be made available there? Usually there must also be another penny, an economic boost, when you go to work in the woods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u157	Madam President! Finally, on the red tape raised by Mr Hoskose, which was also discussed by many other speakers: It is exactly what has been said here. This Kemera jungle is actually a little unsustainable, and we, the committee, must assess what will happen after 2020. It is not sustainable to go through this type of system, where, however, quite a large amount of money is lost. This, that you must first submit a financing application and then a declaration of implementation, came during the last government. But let us defend the Minister then because the reason was that the EU demanded this kind of procedure. In cooperation with the committee, we tried to wriggle that it would not be any easier to make this system. But the fact is that it may be that this form of application and implementation notification is simply not possible. Instead, in the last report, for example, on the length of this decision, we wrote that it is, in a way, a smaller part of this bureaucracy, but it is a pity in itself, because, for example, forest management associations have on shelves a number of these frivolous texts, ten-page texts, in writing. We demand that this decision should be shorter in the future, because it will also be possible on the agricultural side, where bureaucracy is, by the way, so overwhelming. But the sum summarum: I am sure that, under the chairmanship of the committee, both in this matter and later in the very separate seminars, we will then consider what the model for the future might be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u158	Mr President! The purpose of the legislative reform is to respond to the implementation of savings under the Government Programme, to simplify administrative procedures, to save administrative resources and to facilitate the application of aid, but in practice this will show how the above-mentioned issues will be resolved. According to the existing law, the work of early seedlings and young forest management must be carried out by the end of the second calendar year following the decision on support. In practice, therefore, these projects have a implementation period of almost three years. This has led to a high level of commitment to projects which were not intended to be carried out during the year in question or whose implementation is uncertain. According to the proposal, the Kemera Act would be amended so that the implementation period of early seedling care and young forest management could be provided for by a Government decree. In addition, Article 4 of the provision concerning the beneficiary In addition, the granting of an increased area payment for the management of young forests, which is set out in Article 30, would be specified. The proposal proposes that the deadline for implementation should be laid down by Government decree instead of by law. This would make it possible to provide for an appropriate and flexible implementation period during the period of validity of the law. The Government Decree provides that the work should be carried out within one year of the financing decision. The exact implementation period will help Metsäkeskus to assess the stage at which the subsidies will be paid. This legislative reform therefore seeks to ensure a better balance between the number of applications and the number of forest works carried out in the future. In its opinion, the energy industry has been concerned about situations where timber trade has taken place after the decision, but a year is not enough due to harvesting conditions. This situation will arise especially in winter harvesting sites, if winter happens to be mild and winter roads cannot be made, or the work site on peatland can be carried out. It is right to clarify the law in such a way that funds are not eligible for aid, but, in the event of a shortage of funds, aid is directed above all to private landowners, not to large forestry companies, as Mrs Hoskonen, for example, has rightly pointed out in her speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u159	Madam President! This Kemera reform, once again a reform, is necessary and necessary and good, and we in the committee are justified — as many colleagues have said — to move ahead quickly so that, in time, decisions can be made and work in the forest. But, Madam President, it is also important to think about how this whole Kemera system is being taken in such a way that it is more encouraging than at present to take the necessary management measures in due course, which forests demand, that it is as simple as possible and that it is encouraging in all other ways and should not distort the wood market. That is why the many good observations and comments that have been made in this referral debate are worth considering in the committee whether it would be their place now or at another point that we should be able to achieve what I have just mentioned. But now for this legislative proposal, which has come into being, and it will come into force, and at the very latest immediately after that, think about how to implement the things that have just been mentioned. However, the truth is that the whole of Kemera legislation will be renewed at the time of this next phase of the State aid guidelines, and in 2020 there will be a whole new kind of Kemera, or the incentive schemes associated with it, we will have in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u160	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u161	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to repeal the 1921 and now obsolete law on the calming of farms against the damage to domestic animals. In many respects, the law has become obsolete and no longer applies, so the repeal of the law would remove unnecessary regulation and clarify the legal situation. It is true that such an old law should be reformed, but is this law now heading in the right direction? The proposal states that, given the expiry of the land-settlement law and the need for it no longer exists, it is proposed that the law be repealed. The abolition would leave the construction of common pastures and keeping animals in common pastures to voluntary agreements. The damage caused by domestic animals would be covered by general compensation law regulation. However, the problem in the future is that the damage will be reimbursed more than a year after it has been caused, if Parliament has understood that sufficient money has been earmarked for it in the budget. Article 35 of the Reindeer Management Act It is proposed to amend the article to refer to the Compensation Act for damage suffered outside the reindeer husbandry area. If I understand the purpose of today's presentation correctly, we are now increasing the power of the reindeermen and, at the same time, changing the liability. If that is the case, the proposal should not be adopted on these points. The proposal harmonises the law on damages outside the reindeer husbandry area. I believe that the same law on damages should also apply in the reindeer husbandry area. According to this, people in the reindeer husbandry area are left to their own devices. The current reindeer husbandry law clearly prohibits reindeer from causing damage to crops, forestry, permanent housing yards and gardens. Furthermore, according to Article 31(1) of the Law on reindeer husbandry, the yards and gardens and other areas reserved for special use are protected outside the Sámi area. The law also defines an evaluation board that evaluates the damage caused by reindeer. The damage caused by the law must be compensated and a fine may be imposed on the reindeer owner for the infringement of reindeer husbandry. Unfortunately, the current law on reindeer husbandry does not work or does not apply correctly in this respect. According to my information, the reindeer evaluation board will not be available immediately after the damage has occurred. At worst, they'll be here a few months after the accident. In the board, so - called laymen easily estimated the damage to be too small, that is to say, the lower deck. According to the opinion of the residents of the region, the investigation is either suspended or restricted for a large part of the reports to the police. Of course, this is the easiest way for the police to get rid of the pre-trial investigation, but the suspension and restriction of the investigation should be used with caution. There are clear legal instructions on these measures for the police. Madam President! The current law would allow damage to be prevented, including by fenced areas. Some houses and fields are currently surrounded by fences, but on the other hand it creates a different problem. Reindeer are private property, but why should people live in a fence, imprisoned in their own home on the basis of the free grazing right of reindeer? In a wicked world, people protect themselves against criminals, not animals, with real and walls. In Finland, we are now protecting against reindeer and large predators. The fence or gate around the field causes a lot of damage, for example, during the time of manure driving or the time of feeding. If the field needs to be reached up to 50 times on busy days and the tractor is stopped every time the gate is opened and closed, this too will be 200 unnecessary stops, so one visit to the field will cause four stops to allow movement. In addition, fences export eligible or otherwise arable land from the fields. The loss of support or arable land caused by the enclosure shall not be compensated. There is also no compensation for extra work and fuel costs. Current reindeer husbandry also produces an average of 4,000 reindeer chores per year. Even if it is the property of a private reindeer owner, it is the motor insurance of the motorist in the reindeer sector — even though the reindeer is the real cause of the car accident — that is to say, we are all paying. For example, if a bull escapes from a cattle farm, the owner of the bull will pay for the damage caused. Why is it different for reindeer, even though reindeer is a domestic animal, such as bulls?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u162	Mr President! This law is now very timely and necessary. First of all, if we go into this law, the law abolishing the law on the calming of farms against the damage to domestic animals. This law is old. It's over. What I am somewhat familiar with the law in my life is indeed reasonable and necessary for matters to be dealt with in accordance with the present law on damages. It will work very well and well. The second point raised by the previous speaker is this point under the reindeer husbandry law. Firstly, I am correcting the previous speaker's view of what this is all about. Article 35 of the Reindeer Management Act, which is amended here, reads as follows: 'The compensation for damage caused by reindeer outside the reindeer herding area in a case other than that referred to in paragraph 1 shall be governed by the Compensation Act'. In other words, this law only talks about activities outside the reindeer herding area, that is to say, only outside the reindeer herding area, nothing is said here at all, in any way. Then to that point, which was also mentioned by the previous representative. I can fix a few things and talk a few things about this. It is not intended to open the law on reindeer husbandry during this term of government. I have discussed this with the Prime Minister a few days ago and he has said in several places that the law on reindeer husbandry will not be opened during this parliamentary term. But what are we doing now? There have been discussions with the Ministry on this issue. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has taken these discussions very seriously, which have come from the affected operators. It has been discussed and it has been decided that certain measures will be taken. My own view is that reindeer husbandry law is an up-to-date law. There is absolutely no need to open it up, but certain practices, practices, must be corrected and changed, because there is clearly a need for correction. These repair needs are now being considered, practices are being rethought that what should be taken into account there. The first is this committee on the assessment of reindeer damage, on which the previous speaker also raised matters, but also on this point I am correcting his speech on what the reindeer damage assessment committee does and how it works under the reindeer husbandry law. I myself am the chairman of that committee in the municipality of Savukoski, and the process goes on in such a way that whenever there is an accident in the fields, in the yards that has not been reached in the negotiating situation with the Paliskunta, then the chairman of the reindeer damage assessment committee will be informed of the matter and, if necessary, will be discussed. If it doesn't move forward, then the evaluation board will meet. There have been surprisingly few meetings of the evaluation board, since there have been many places where there have been no such needs in practice. The Reindeer Damage Assessment Board makes an appealable decision, and only then will that decision be corrected to the courts. That's the only way we're gonna go to court to negotiate. Which means the police will not be here until the evaluation board has taken a decision. How things should be improved in the future is that evaluation boards should be helped, practices developed in such a way that evaluation boards can be better instructed in their activities. In particular in the Kainuu region and in the southern reindeer management area, problems have arisen in the lack of adequate knowledge of the evaluation boards. Consideration has been given to how to increase support for evaluation boards to run their activities in such a way as to be able to operate legally. The second thing that will be necessary in the near future is that there will be a bigger, open debate on how to move these issues forward. Mr President! I'll tell you about it for a while. So now that we are going to have open debates, so that we see what matters and problems are at stake, my own presentation is also that, after this, always before the snow melts, the blocks and the landowners in the area concerned, those who may suffer harm, would have a conversation, before the snow melts. In other words, discussions will take place on what matters should be taken into account before these problems arise. We have good systems for fenced areas and so forth. I believe that we have improved practices. So, with these things to go forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u163	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal also amends the liability clause of that reindeer husbandry law, and, as the previous speakers have pointed out, it is, of course, also necessary to assess whether there is a need for more extensive work to be done in this reindeer husbandry law. It is now a matter of opening up the reindeer husbandry law or amending certain articles, but it is clear that there is a need for change to some extent. In those southern areas of reindeer farming in particular, admittedly, in many places the problem is the free grazing of reindeer, or it is said that the damage caused and caused by the free grazing right. As reindeer husbandry in those regions is increasingly secondary or hobby-like, it is clear that the paliskunta do not, well used the word 'can', then care for reindeer in accordance with the law, there will be damage to the property of others, and it is clear that this is not acceptable. In other words, the environment and activities of reindeer husbandry have changed in many ways, and it is quite clear that it is necessary to assess the legal needs of the southern parts of the reindeer husbandry area in order to allow people in reindeer husbandry areas to live, live and work in peace on their own land.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u164	Madam President! As Mrs Maijala has said here, this applies specifically to areas outside the reindeer management area, but I would also like to raise the issue that we, as Members of Parliament, have received a lot of contacts, particularly from Kainuu and southern reindeer husbandry areas, where, frankly, this current process is not sustainable. It is not right for reindeer to be fed on other farmland or for reindeer to repeatedly do damage on the yardyards and for such a normal rural life to become more difficult, and I think that it is as if the time of hunting for reindeer men shows that their own measures will change these things. Or if this is not the case, it must be borne in mind that one of the policies of our government programme was to safeguard the protection of property, and in my opinion, if this is not possible, then these matters must be dealt with in some way, even as legislative proposals. But this bill is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u165	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the reindeer owner, the reindeer host, Mrs Maijala, corrected my knowledge of reindeer farming. However, I hope that Parliament will take a clear position on the need to amend the reindeer husbandry law. Road safety, the protection of domestic peace and the avoidance of damage are important issues for all tourists, including those outside agriculture and those living in the south. As I said earlier, the reindeer husbandry law does not work and does not have to be followed in practice. In my amendment, I propose that reindeer be kept in the southern reindeer herding areas. Reindeer is a hiker by nature, so the enclosure must be large enough. In the first place, the fence should be made for land owned or leased by the reindeer owner; in the second place, the State could rent land for use by the reindeer owner. However, everyman’s rights and the right to hunting, among other things, should be maintained in the fenced area of the state’s country. In the event of large-scale fraud, the potential damage would be apparent and it should be possible to intervene quickly by a decision of the local police. If the reindeer were in the enclosure, they would be fed if necessary and would not be harmed by the rest of the population, transport, farming or forestry. Nor would tourism suffer from fences: the reindeer admired by tourists are already in a fence or tied to a rope. At the same time as legal reform is required, the Motor Insurance Act should be updated so that the reindeer owner is liable for compensation in the event of a reindeer. Even with this measure, road accidents would be significantly reduced. At the same time, compensation practices should also be clarified and stricter penalties imposed on infringements of the law should be imposed. Currently, the Finnish Motor Insurance Centre compensates reindeer and the reindeer for the damage caused to reindeer husbands and private insurance. At the moment, the State is paying substantial sums to the palaces for the purpose of making and refurbishing the fences, including the very high level of compensation for fraud. For example, eagles pay hundreds of thousands of euros annually in Lapland, and even reindeer carcasses do not need to be found. For 2017, it is forecast that almost EUR 9 million will be paid in compensation for predatory animals. If the reindeer were in the fences, the winners would be all of them. The government would save substantial sums of money, reindeer would not die in traffic and would not be able to eat in sprayed fields before the end of the withdrawal period, farmers would be satisfied, as would forestry. There would be no problems in private house yards and gardens, and, best of all, reindeer men would do better. A better result for a reindeer would be that the slaughter weights would grow and the meat sold would become more so. My proposal, as described above, concerns the southern reindeer herding area with regard to the obligation to fence. Reindeer should be fenced outside the Sámi area, but at least in Kainuu, North-East Finland, including Posio. Mr President! It cannot be right for reindeer to travel freely in yards and gardens at the moment. If a reindeer comes into my garden regularly, shall it be said that I would very easily think that I would eat it the following week, and would not have to put potatoes in it;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u166	Madam President! It is up to Sipilä's government to look at the dismantling and streamlining of red tape, and this is exactly what has happened when the old legislation is being dismantled, even though we are here every year, every day, doing new things. In fact, these reindeer and damage cases are then transferred to the framework of the law on damages. This is where the reindeer owner, Mrs Maijala, gave an excellent speech and an introduction to this issue, and I will not use any more of this to upset this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u167	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kulmala, for your concern about these issues in the reindeer sector. It is important for all of us that we get this industry, which is very important for Lapland and Northern Finland and also for Kainuu, as part of the balanced development of the region. So much I have to fix only for Cornerland, that first of all, not every reindeer husband is a reindeer master, but the reindeer master is the leader of the Paluskunta and there is only one reindeer master in every paluskunta. I am the daughter of a reindeer master, but I am not a reindeer master myself, and I am certainly never going to be such a reindeer owner. This reindeer husbandry is a very important industry for the whole reindeer husbandry area: it is an image issue, it is much more than just an activity by reindeer husbands. Whether or not we can start to restrict that reindeer husbandry right is not so clear at all, because the right to reindeer husbandry is a constitutional right. Indeed, once the existing reindeer husbandry law has been defined, a very precise constitutional analysis has been carried out of what is a reindeer husbandry right, and it is clearly shown that it is a property right — or it is not quite a property right, but it is more than a burden. In other words, it is very difficult to go into any area to dismantle the current reindeer husbandry right. Because we have this kind of very high ownership of the right, this grazing right, we need to think about how we can get over these things. There are problems, but how do we move on with these problems? There are these negotiations, the discussions, we need to talk more and more about things. And then I will also be forced to address the fact that a number of messages have been sent by e-mail to all Members of Parliament, which include matters relating to reindeer husbandry. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will have some reservations about them, because I am forced to say that they contain some inappropriate, partly very weak interpretation of the law. In particular, there are things written on the constitutional points in a very non-legal way, let me say, in the style of a kitchen lawyer. Think twice about what those things really contain. The problem exists, but I would like to see a certain degree of appropriateness and competence in writing these things. And certain articles, including a picture of which I have been asked a great deal, have been sent to almost all Members of Parliament, but for some reason I have not been sent. Eli has been e-mailed such a photograph, where the elk — the large reindeer — is next to the old man’s roller kicker, and it is said that this prevents the elderly from moving and moving. But when I have clarified the background of the picture, the first thing I have been told is that the picture is not even from the person’s yard, but the picture is from the yard of the building on the other side of the road. And second of all, the essential thing about this matter is that anyone who has any knowledge of reindeer husbandry knows that a moose with an antlers about 20 centimetres is by no means approaching any human being, because reindeer horns are growing really fast and it is not really capable of causing any human problem at that point, it stays very far away from people. How many of these problems do you have in the reindeer care area? I have been very careful to find out how many cases have been dealt with at different legal levels in relation to the damage caused by reindeer husbandry. There have been surprisingly few of them, if you know what I mean. Most farmers cooperate fully with reindeer husbands. There are problems, but they have been discussed. And indeed the loudest players are very much on the table, but there are certainly no problems everywhere. For example, the majority of dairy farms are quite happy that reindeer go to the winter to eat too long grass, so that there will be no winter destruction in the fields. So I'm hoping for some more detailed analysis before we go barking at the reindeer economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u168	Mr President! Representative Maijala here told us that reindeer is an image issue, and I'm sure it does, but will it improve the image of reindeer if the reindeer is allowed to go anywhere, in gardens and fields, in such a way that it can't be watched? I have been contacted by several officers on these matters, so I have to believe what they are telling me. They haven't told me all that nonsense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u169	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u170	Mr President! The Minister for the Environment is unable to present this issue now, so I myself will say a few words about this, because I am responsible for the government parties in the Committee on the Environment. The Government has today submitted a proposal to Parliament to amend the Environmental Protection Act. According to the proposal, the environmental permit procedure would be reduced by reducing the environmental permitability of activities included in the national list of installations. The proposal relates to the gradual reform of the Environmental Protection Act, which aims to facilitate red tape and regulation of environmental permits. There has now been a great deal of work, improvement and de-bureaucratisation on environmental protection legislation in this Parliament. The Ministry of the Environment has been very exemplary, because it is the Ministry of the Environment that has done the most red tape. It is proposed that authorisation should be completely removed from activities with a generally low environmental impact. These activities include pellet presses, veneer mills, textile water washes and rescue helicopter aerodromes. In addition, the scope of the registration procedure would be extended. The most important change in this context is the transfer of currently licensed solid concrete stations and concrete production plants and, for example, distribution sites for marine fuels to the registration procedure. Registration is a registration measure which does not make an administrative decision or imposes any provisions, and the fundamental change in this previous activity is, first and foremost, that it can be started when 90 days have elapsed since the municipality’s environmental protection authority registered the activity or notification — note 90 days after the notification has been made. Here we are at last and finally in a situation where a certain time limit has been set, so that if a certain time has passed and if the matter has not been dealt with, then it is considered that it is valid. This is a really big positive change in our licensing policy. The activities to be registered must comply with the general environmental protection requirements laid down by Government Decree. The authorisation procedure for animal protection would also be somewhat lighter when it is proposed to increase the authorisation threshold for housing in suckler cows. The determination of the eligibility of animal enclosures keeping different animal species or farmed animals of different ages would be specified. And then there are more precise regulations for official advice — this is also what is really expected and hoped for. In order to streamline the environmental authorisation procedure, the proposal proposes to introduce provisions on the advice of the authorities relating to the application phase in the law. Advice would be provided free of charge and via electronic information systems at the request of the applicant. In the future, the role of the authorities will be to be increasingly advisory, instructive, without any different compensation. This is intended to reduce the need for negative or complaint-based decisions so that, above all, business activities can be carried forward sensibly. Other measures to improve and improve the efficiency of the environmental authorisation procedure are also under preparation at the Ministry of the Environment. The most important of these are the implementation of the one-stop-shop principle on environmental issues and the introduction of a new notification procedure replacing the authorisation procedure for animal housing and possibly for some other activities. Mr President! This package will further clarify the issues of environmental management. This will also help people on the protection side to be better able to focus on timely complaints. After that, I hope that the applicants and the various parties will also know when to act, when to act. This will reduce additional official work and people’s everyday paper arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u171	Madam President! This is about amending the Environmental Protection Act, which is based on Juha Sipilä's Government's Government Programme as one of its key projects, i.e. streamlining legislation: clarification of regulatory policy guidance, net reduction of regulation and increased use of alternative instruments. The Government’s aim is to dismantle regulation and reduce the administrative burden. As part of this key project, authorisation and complaint processes will also be streamlined. Here are excellent elements for this very dismantling of standards. As Mrs Maijala said there, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have really taken action with regard to these regulations so that these kind of authorisation procedures are dismantled, especially in the spirit of this Tarast task force, i.e. we get the speed and smoothness of investment and business projects without compromising the environmental objectives. On the basis of this Environmental Protection Act, authorisation procedures are now being dismantled for so-called minor issues and registration procedures are being carried out for some of the projects. One good content of the legislative reform is precisely increasing and investing in the advice of the authorities. The application procedures are quite long, and if it is anyone, these authorities themselves know how they operate and how the application should be carried out. Here, too, the provision of advice by the authorities is mentioned, so that the process can also be streamlined. I hope that, also through this project, we will have more vigour and kicks in many respects in the business sector, in the business activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u172	Madam President! It has already been pointed out in this speech that the Ministry of the Environment in particular has very well begun to consider how these authorisation and evaluation procedures can be streamlined and made more efficient without compromising the objectives of environmental protection. This work was actually started during the last term of government, and it is good that the current government will continue to do so. Last season, under the leadership of Minister Lauri Tarast, there was an evaluation team to think about these issues, and now they are being brought into legislation. The reduction of authorisation procedures proposed here is in itself small projects that have no major environmental impact, there is nothing alarming about it. But what is now becoming a question here is this advisory procedure. It is good that the applicants for authorisation receive advice in order to ensure that they are fluent in their applications and that all the necessary documents are included immediately, but the problem is that this has not taken into account the potential harm victims, but that this is unbalanced. It is therefore important that this advice should be accompanied by a binding record of the need to consult not only the operator but also the relevant and other authorities. This is also the point raised by the Supreme Administrative Court in its opinion, since the idea of this authorisation procedure is that the interests of the applicant and the disadvantage are balanced and that the interests are taken into account transparently. Now, if this advice is directed solely at the applicants for authorisation, then this other party – i.e. the potential sufferers – will now be completely ignored, and I hope that this will be taken into account in the further examination.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u173	Madam President! That is where Mrs Maijala said that the Ministry of the Environment has been the most energetic in taking the dismantling of standards forward, but yes, I thank — in fact, the same minister — for the very good work done on the agricultural and forestry front. This bill is another fine example of how the deregulation is progressing. This is exactly the direction in which other permit practices should go, that there are warranty periods, when you will receive the decision when you leave the paper. Whether it is a registration, a notification procedure or a permit, such a guarantee period would be what we should be aiming for. In the case of unnecessary matters — things that do not actually weaken the environment — it is wise that such matters should no longer be dealt with in the future when it comes to the processing of permits. I would like to see this listing now that we are opening up and removing less environmentally friendly activities, so it would be worth looking at now, for example, for small-scale food production. I know that many activities, such as potato peeling, have had to be abandoned because of the permit jungle, because they are so expensive, and this means that they only focus on large plants, even if it makes sense for public kitchens to export potatoes or potatoes from their own province. This was just one example, but while we are going through that list here, it might be quite appropriate for the Committee on the Environment to then ask for opinions from others other than those that have been rightly raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u174	Mr President! Indeed, the aim is not to compromise the objectives of environmental protection. We cannot compromise on them at all, for we are all responsible for the kind of life we will have here tomorrow. This advisory procedure: It was good that Mr Mikkonen also raised this hearing of others. We must also take this into account in committee, because there has not been enough of this in this proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u175	Madam Speaker! It is an excellent thing for the government to propose that this environmental authorisation procedure should be reduced and that environmental authorisation should be reduced to facilities that do not cause environmental problems. We need to take care of the environment, but there is no need for overregulation, and here it is being severely dismantled. This is part of Sipilä’s Government’s Norm Dismantling Point project. Of course, this will also be followed up, and it must be continued. This is a very good sign that we are now moving towards a change of attitude, towards the fact that the authorities are not just supervisors and regulators, but are also advisors and guides, and that we are going to bring about a reduction in the length of time spent with the official guarantee, and so on. While we take care of our environment, as we should, we also encourage investment and development and economic growth and jobs. There's a lot of things in this. There's a lot of good things in it. In the same way, much more widespread use is made of digitalisation and also of the principle that, when one information is provided to one authority, it is enough, and that is the way it should be. There is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that this happens, but this is a very good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-02-22-ps-11.u176	Madam President! I would like to point out, in fact, the point raised by Mr Kalmar, that a list of these environmental permits and their reduction was set out here, but all this bureaucracy is constantly sending us a new message, at least from small businesses and operators in those regions, so it would be good to have these collected when this law is open and to look at it as far as their activities are concerned.
