ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2017 vp. The State budget procedure for 2018 was adopted at the plenary session on 12 December 2017 and the report was put on the table for today's plenary session. We shall now proceed to the general debate. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will continue with group speeches of up to 7 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Following the general debate on the budget as a whole, there will be a section-by-section general discussion in which the section presidents of the Committee on Finance will present the report in respect of the section concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u3	Next, a round of group talks, and the first representative, Mr Juhantalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u4	Madam President! I've been in politics for a long time. In the recession of the early 1990s, Finland’s economy was collapsing. Unemployment was at its worst over 20 per cent, and the state was heavily indebted. Tens of thousands of companies fell, and many Finnish families went bankrupt. The threat of the recession was seen for a long time, but the ruling Holker government with its parliamentary groups, the upswing. All the warnings went to deaf ears. Instead of taking responsibility, many ministers moved to a greener branch in the middle of the season. In reality, controlled restructuring meant Finland drifting into one of the deepest ponds in the industrialized world. During the last parliamentary term, the problems did not escalate as quickly as they did in the early 1990s, but the result was similar. Finland was collapsing. Only unemployment and government debt grew in our country's economy. The reforms were not carried out, the ministers were mass-fleet from the government and, in the end, the government voted against its own proposals. It is also common that, in both cases, Finns have trusted the centre to bring our country back on its feet. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] Mr President! However, the Centre has ensured that, despite the tight economic situation, basic human services have not been cut, and we have also been able to make some improvements to basic security. For example, the guarantee pension for the lowest-income pensioners has been increased twice during this parliamentary term under the direction of the Centre. The funding of family and family care has been increased. Parents who are studying are supported by a care-sharing breed. In addition, the lowest parental allowance and sickness allowance will be increased. The situation of families with children will be facilitated by reductions in day care fees, and almost 7,000 low-income families will be completely exempted from the fees at the beginning of next year. Basic security needs to be further improved, while at the same time making it more encouraging and simpler. We must ensure that all Finns remain involved. Improving basic security also has a positive impact on employment developments. Long-term inequalities must be halted. Education, better employment and high-quality preventive services must continue to be promoted. Social and regional reform must be completed as a matter of urgency. The reform will be carried out in order to ensure equal services for each Finnish citizen. The aim of the Centre is to strengthen public social and health services, which complement the services provided by the private and third sectors. Access to treatment and human care must be guaranteed throughout the country. Madam President! Even though the process of putting the Finnish economy in order has progressed, the debt-taking process has not yet been completed. Economic growth must continue to be supported in every way and positive developments must continue. Modernising Finland and improving employment is the most sustainable way to stop living as Finland’s debt. This includes reform, support for SMEs and the development of working life. 15% of enterprises create 75% of new jobs. We need more of these fast growth companies. The financing of business growth must therefore be ensured. One way is to promote access to domestic private capital. The aim must be for at least 100,000 unemployed people to be employed in the next parliamentary term. We believe that it is possible for everyone to find work with adequate training and support. The low-skilled and part-time workers must also be involved. The government has implemented many reforms, such as the dismantling of transport reform and a huge amount of unnecessary bureaucracy. However, the reforms still need to be continued and the financing of transport, for example, refurbished. Continued debt would be the way of destruction and totally unfair for our children and grandchildren. It seems to be an option for the SDP. By contrast, the central line is strong employment and the economy, so that we can care for the weaker and ensure safe everyday, equal services and other conditions of life throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u5	Mr President! The best birthday gift for 100-year-old Finland has been the recovery of our economic growth. After a decade of loss, the boom has created faith in the future. Now companies have the courage to invest and recruit new employees. Growth does not depend on a single card, but positive news comes from different fields from Kainuu to Hanko. As the opposition focuses on non-policy, the Government has assumed its responsibilities and made the necessary decisions to bring the Finnish economy to a close. The most important thanks for this work are the reduction in unemployment. The more Finns get to work, the better we can take care of those who need the help and security of society. Government action is reflected in ever-increasing growth rates. The Competitiveness Pact has improved Finland’s cost competitiveness, which is reflected in a strong rise in exports and the fulfilment of company order books. We have ensured that Finland is worth trying to invest and investing in and working on by breaking down the standards that hinder the doing and commissioning of work. Only by working and trying can we safeguard our well-being, our position at the top of country comparisons in the future. Mr President! The biggest winner of the government's tax policy is the average Finnish employee. Next year, the taxation of earned income will be reduced by nearly 300 million, and the total government has reduced labour taxation by more than EUR 1.3 billion, with a focus on reducing the tax burden on low and middle-income employees. The cyclical changes will also be reflected in next year's budget. In previous years, when Finland's debt was at its worst up to 10 billion a year, an additional 3 billion in debt can be considered to be tolerable. The good news is that the indebtedness rate of the entire public finances — social funds, municipalities and the state — is slowing down and the debt ratio of the public goods has fallen. The bad news, however, is that the state is still in debt. We do not have the prospect of a year in which we will decide in this Chamber on a state budget with the same level of expenditure and revenue. The debate on the divisional thief against this background is incomprehensible. Mr President! Economic growth will make things easier for us, but it will not remedy the structural problems of our economy and will not tackle our sustainability gap alone. Finland was sick on the bedbed for a decade, but the drugs of this government have finally worked and made our country recover. However, we are not completely healthy yet, and if we leave our course of medicine, the disease can be even more severe. The upturn we are seeing is the most opportune time for reforms to increase the resilience of public finances. Government drugs have been called ineffective by the opposition at first. Now that the economy and employment are on a growth path, the opposition has had to change their rhetoric. Now they're calling it the people of the United States. We accept this as nothing more than praise if the co-operative policy is seen as synonymous with responsible economic policy and reforms that aim to safeguard the work and well-being of Finns in the future. Mr President! The Committee on Finance states in its report that the fiscal path chosen by the government is the right one. The screw has been tightened with caution and gradually to prevent the growth from being jeopardised. Thank you, too, for the government making the agreed savings and keeping to spending discipline. At the same time, I would like to remind you that every party in this Parliament has, in turn, had to make and defend adjustments in order to finally end living in debt on our children. However, in making adjustments, the Government has insisted that the equality of Finnish society is not compromised. Employment has improved, but income differentials have not increased much. In spite of tight financial management, the government has also been able to make the necessary investments in employment and prevention of inequality and exclusion. The conditions for unemployed people to find employment will be improved by making it possible to become an entrepreneur and to study short-term with unemployment benefit. The reduction in early childhood education fees and the reform of family leave will support the daily lives of families with children as well as employment. Particular attention will be paid to improving the employment of young people, strengthening skills and combating exclusion. The economic room for manoeuvre has been targeted in particular at knowledge, security and the implementation of the energy and climate strategy. Mr President! Growth has brought us a completely new problem. Finnish products and services are sold so well that a shortage of skilled labour is threatened as a stopper for growth. During the autumn, the message from my home country Kainuu entrepreneurs has been unambiguous: new talent and factors are needed in different sectors and quickly. There would be skilled entrants from abroad in line, but the delay of months in the needs analysis of foreign labour is unsustainable for companies. We ourselves have put obstacles to our growth. We can't really afford to hold on to them. According to a report from the AI working group, Finland could increase its growth to 3% for the next ten years if the availability of labour was free. [Department : Fire gloves! ] Finland's high structural unemployment must be reduced. The report by the Committee on Finance has seen greater flexibility in the labour market as one of the key instruments. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party supports this. By allowing more fair agreement at the workplace, more and more people will be able to work. At the same time, our social security needs to be adapted in a direction that allows more flexibility in combining work and security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u6	Mr President! A week ago in this hall, independence was celebrated together — Tillsammans. At that time, President Kallio's words from the early years of independence were quoted at the formal session of the Parliament. A Finland must be built in which 'everyone feels that they are members of society and that they are happy here'. In this spirit, we Social Democrats have created our economic policy options. It keeps everyone involved and ensures that growth belongs to everyone. Finland cannot afford to increase inequality. Otherwise, economic and social uncertainty will increase and confidence will decline. The consequences can be surprising and serious. Mr President! At the beginning of the reign, Prime Minister Sipilä appealed to the weakest, the sickest and the poorest in society and urged them to give up their minimum in order to get Finland in order. In turn, high incomes were urged to donate to charity, even though taxation would have been a way to get everyone on a fair footing. Families, children and young people, students, unemployed persons, pensioners and those in basic security were left to pay for the strict cutting line of the government of nearly 4 billion. The severe surgeries continued every year, each year, deepening the plight of people. Consider the fact that even antidiabetic medicines have been cut and celiac payments have been abolished. Valuations or lack of value are also well documented by the cuts in holiday money, as is the failure of a school vow. Few people would believe that after all this, the government would have the nerve to distribute significant tax benefits to its interests, but yes. The Sipilä government has the nerve. Mr President! The government's economic policy lacks a heart. In spite of petitions and promises, justice has not been restored, even though Finland is receiving the help of the global economy and our country's economy is finally growing. The government has justified its cut-off line by putting public finances in order. At the same time, tax policies favouring high incomes have weakened the financing base of the welfare state. Finland is not going to be okay, as according to the budget book, the structural government deficit will increase from 2016 to 2019. Thus, the structural state of public finances is not improving but is deteriorating, contrary to what many government representatives, who are blinded by cyclical dust, are still claiming here. Mr President! Government policy also lacks a credible vision for the future. The SDP proposes three - three - objectives in order to reverse this divisive trend. Restoring fairness, making smart reforms to increase employment, strengthening skills and productivity. It is time for major reforms. First of all, compulsory education must be brought boldly into modern times. In the future, primary education alone will no longer be sufficient to join the labour market. Maintain compulsory education and make the second level free of charge. Secondly, early childhood education is one of the best investments that will also pay for itself. Reduce the group sizes of early childhood education, restore the subjective right to early childhood education and abolish all payments in the long term. Thirdly, the reform of family leave must be carried out immediately. Reforming family leave for children and families is an effective way of increasing equality in the labour market while at the same time improving employment. Fourthly, the level of education must be reversed again. Even at the beginning of the millennium, Finland had the most educated population in the world. Now many countries have passed us. We want to reverse this development. Fifthly, we also provide sufficient resources for the management of employment. We do not accept that the government should once again cut off the unemployed, now in the name of the active model. Instead of making accusations, the unemployed need proper services. Mr President! In October, Professor Matti Pohjola said about educational cuts in Helsingin Sanomat: "Production potential can be increased by improving labour productivity, which is almost the only way to invest in education, research and development." For us, education policy is the best growth policy. Education increases productivity and is the best insurance against labour market risks. At the same time, education is an effective means of reducing inequalities and keeping everyone involved in society. Therefore, the main investments of the SDP option are made in education, research and product development. In addition to extending compulsory education, we would invest in all levels of education. By the way, by its own actions, the government has proved our criticisms right when it now corrects its own mistakes in the field of education cuts. However, small temporary increases do not alter the fact that you have made permanent cuts of more than one billion to the civilization of the nation. We'd fix this big mistake. Mr President! The erosion and marketisation of the welfare state are the ideological choices of this government. The Government already chose its line in 2015. Even though the economy is growing, nothing has changed. The government justifies this by not being able to afford anything else. I mean, nothing changes. Mr President! Archbishop Kari Mäkinen said: "Being a part of well-being is not everyone's story. In the end, the most crucial thing in terms of social confidence is the confidence of those who have not been able to share in the building of common prosperity and its fair distribution." Mr President, we assume that we cannot afford not to keep everyone involved. It's a matter of trust. In our alternative, we would reduce income differentials and reverse the policy of disparateness and still take less debt than this government. The SDP believes that growth should belong to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u7	Madam President! Finland’s economy has been reversed. It has been behind a number of difficult decisions both within and outside the government. The blue future has been a key player in this. I am speaking from the beginning of the reign. Finland had drifted on the road of previous governments, Greece, to financial guardianship. The current government took important steps to halt strategic indebtedness and save the welfare society. The key part was that, in particular, the competitiveness of exports had to be restored, so that the economic growth of the euro area, which started a couple of years earlier, could finally be transmitted to domestic Finland. The structural problems of the economy had to be addressed through difficult adjustment decisions, decisions which, fortunately, have now begun to receive increasingly fragmented support even from opposition members in the cottages. Fortunately for the opposition, too, it is important to recognise that the decisive support given by the government to labour market organisations to strengthen competitiveness has helped Finland’s export prospects and employment and a very large increase in well-being. According to Statistics Finland, the employment rate has risen to 70 per cent, having been 68.4 per cent in October last year. The number of job vacancies has increased and the number of unemployed has decreased. This year the Finnish economy will grow by well over 3 per cent. Next year, growth will continue to be strong. In Europe in general, it is in the order of 2%. We have therefore reached the top of Europe in terms of economic growth, when, at the beginning of the reign, thanks to previous ones, we had fallen to the bottom and to the bottom. Debt is slowing down fast. The direction is the right one, but we must continue to work to ensure that more and more ordinary people are involved in the construction of our common society. Mr President! We blues want to give thanks first to those who have been the real and real factors in the Finnish economy and well-being. The ordinary, undisturbed Finnish citizen with hard work and honesty, paying taxes, has made it possible and will continue to make it possible for this nation to have a future. It is fair to say that Finns deserve to take care of the affairs of their country, who look to the interests of this small nation and its small person and are not on the leash of various interest groups or on the perturbing road to extreme thinking, on the road to Kosola’s thinking. The Finnish citizen feels that paying taxes is a civic responsibility because it maintains a well-being society. However, according to a study commissioned by the Tax Administration, 39 per cent of Finns often experience anger over the amount of taxes they pay. We blues know the burden of this honest Finnish taxpayer. We have therefore reduced taxes on earned income by EUR 1.3 billion during this term of government, with particular emphasis on low and middle incomes. This critical tax cuts is a flagrant distinction between leading opposition parties and their shadow budgets. The Demars would increase the tax burden on citizens by more than EUR 900 million with tax increases. The Greens would extort the plight of a conscientious Finnish woman and man with a tax increase of EUR 1.4 billion. This kind of mental chilling tax measures in the socialism era, partly to increase development aid, would weaken the incentives for work and entrepreneurship here in the country of origin. A vibrant attitude of entrepreneurship, a tenacious Finnish strength, would be cut off with a left-wing tax backpack. Nevertheless, the shadow budgets of the opposition parties imagine that the strong economy built by the government would still be in power after their efforts to destabilise economic activity and confidence. The fact is, however, that tax - drawn anchors would fall into the swamp of socialism, according to the spruce model. Mr President! Without the current government, the taxation of the average income would be much more severe. How effective could an alternative government be when we consider the shadow budgets built on the great incomes of opposition parties? The overwhelming majority of this hall and nation also have much more heart or at least economic sense in the case of asylum seekers who have taken negative decisions than in the basic Finnish budget for the detention of all asylum seekers without any sense, border or humanity. The Blues and the Government's policy of risk assessment and detention of asylum seekers where necessary is more humane and cost-effective. The representative, Elo, was able to pass through the annual costs of the basic Finns' line in the shadow budget debate: more than EUR 650 million. The means by which this money would save women and children almost in captivity do not fit into a civilised state or its constitution, let alone international human rights. Mr President! In June, a fundamental change of direction was experienced by the Finnish People’s Party, for which many had worked together democratically. That radical and irreversible change, as we all know in this Chamber, was to lead to the breakdown, collapse, destruction of the government — precisely the government that had taken the unthankful but necessary steps, as I mentioned at the outset, in the common interest of all of us, in order to correct the downward trend in the decades of the economy. And now we can say that this budget is a budget for negotiations and so it is also a budget for blues. Blues see honest Finnish entrepreneurs and the vital role of a vibrant middle class in the construction of this country. We believe that work is the best social security. With these words we accept this budget, which will finally revitalize this country and its people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u8	Mr President! You have to live on. I'm afraid we won't realize that until after. The same applies to the state budget proposal. The government’s budget has been made on the basis of a growth forecast of around 2%. The latest forecasts are up to 3%. True Finns believe in these more positive prospects. That is why the budget could have been built more fairly. This period, the economic policy line has focused on breaking the debt ratio in Finland, reducing the sustainability gap and significantly increasing the employment rate. The objectives are excellent and good, but there is still a lot of catching up to do. The amount of money left in hand is the most important indicator of the economy in the everyday lives of an individual person. Money comes from working and trying in our economy. Jobs will be created if companies succeed and employment is economically viable. Unlike the government, the Finns of Finland would speed up businesses by raising the lower limit of VAT liability and the upper limit of the area of relief. In addition, we would reduce company taxation and we would pilot business taxation in line with the Estonian model of the employment-oriented SMEs. We would like to apply for new self-employed people with a new job account model, which allows them to self-employed without red tape. The removal allowance would help an employee to seek employment in another locality without being financially trapped in two homes. With the help of the Finns, we can create plenty of new jobs. Make use of our means, government. Mr President! We see dark clouds in the sky. There is yet another problem with the reform of the war, and there is no reason to do so. The current option-free approach will not achieve the desired savings. Costs are threatening to get out of hand, special care and public health care as a whole are threatening to collapse. The proposal is also a transfer of billions into the pockets of large private companies. The True Finns argue that freedom of choice should be built in such a way that private service providers merely complement public services. Mr President! Finland has fallen into an EU flame. We need less federal development. "You're wearing a work jacket, so that you can stand up to someone with legs and legs: 'Yes, sir, yes, More Antero Rocka is needed in Finnish politics. The interests of Finns must be dared to defend on all tables. The Finns Party is the only consistently critical party in the EU to oppose the deepening of the European Economic and Monetary Union and the federal development of the EU as a whole. The responsibilities and guarantees of the state are increasing. At the same time, central government debt is growing. The activities of the European Central Bank have resulted in a link between banks and states, as the responsibilities of central banks and states have increased. Artificially produced low interest rates and seemingly free money have led to frivolous debt and increased solidarity. In a hearing with the Committee on Finance, Thomas Malinen, economist at the University of Helsinki, said that the next economic crisis and the recession will bring the debt crisis back to the euro area worse than ever. If we are not prepared for a clear increase in solidarity — as the Finns are not — and if we are not prepared for federal development, we must accept the possibility of the euro area breaking out in the next crisis. Mr Malinen points out that Finland needs to make concrete contingency plans for the break-up of the current euro area. In the opinion of the Finns Party, solidarity is not in Finland's national interest and we therefore propose that Finland should prepare for the break-up of the euro area in its own interest. There is no point in us not talking openly about this in Parliament and doing nothing about it in advance. After all, we are demanding emergency exit instructions for buildings, but we are turning our eyes to this fact. Mr President! There are fair and national-interest options to replace government activities. All of them can be found in this alternative budget for Finns. I have already mentioned our entrepreneurship and employment package. Our programme also provides solutions for agriculture, the everyday life of families with children, pensioner poverty and, among other things, the promotion of tourism. We have a bill to remove the arbitrariness of insurance doctors, a demand for additional police resources, and proposals to prevent asylum tourism and make substantial cuts in asylum costs. We need to put an end to illegal land. Fortunately, during the parliamentary procedure, the Committee on Finance made some increases in appropriations for the government's line and proposals. These include improving the efficiency of drug street trafficking and foreign control, increasing the financing of communications against terrorism and radicalisation, investments in the staff of the Emergency Response Centre and in Customs' appropriations. Further efforts were also made towards the exclusion of young people, the suicide prevention programme, basic education and early childhood education. I thank Parliament for that, and I cannot now thank the government for that. Mr President! The True Finns ask why the government did not accept our alternative budget and its proposals but abstained in its own presentations. I guess that's what they're doing to get good and sensible ideas out of here. Well, I hope you've even read it now. On the basis of the above, I shall put forward a motion of censure, which reads as follows: 'In its draft budget, the government has not shown sufficient measures to reduce housing prices, to promote entrepreneurship, employment and education, to safeguard home, care and care services and to strengthen national interests, internal solidarity and security. Parliament notes that as a result, the government does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u9	Madam President! We Greens are delighted that Finland has been involved in the suction of the world economy. Economic uplift is a happy thing, but at the same time we are very disappointed that the government is in no way better able to share the fruits of economic growth. The value choices of each government budget have so far been wrong and the government has not been able to reverse its economic policy despite criticism. We Greens have often pointed out that every euro is a value choice and that a human, innovative, forward-looking budget is possible without more debt than the government, i.e. with just the same amount of money. But what is the government doing? He will not correct his cuts in subsidies for low-income people and will not correct the cuts in the equality of education. Nor will the government reduce subsidies that are harmful to the environment. In addition, major structural reforms, such as family leave reform and business support reform, lag behind. With its budget proposal, the government is leaving a debt for the coming years that is not reflected in the budget and which is very expensive to repay. The government is leaving climate debt, knowledge debt and poverty debt to future generations with its short-sighted policy. Mr President! The government has cut education to an historic degree. In recent times, huge cuts have been tried with individual project and project funds, among other things. But they're just patches for open wounds. This poor policy reduces Finland’s level of competence and jeopardises equality of opportunity. The future builders, today’s children and young people, and their kindergartens and schools, suffer from this. In addition, the situation of universities and researchers vital for future economic growth has been hampered so that a record number of researchers have left Finland abroad in recent years. This is a bad development. Mr President! The debt of inequality and poverty is also growing in the face of social security degradation. Also in the coming year, the government will continue to freeze benefits, and previous cuts to student money will continue. All these surgeries are taking more from those who already have the least. At the same time, the biggest tax reductions have been targeted at those on good income. The fact that the government has said in its strategy for internal security that exclusion is the biggest security threat in Finland makes the situation a contradiction, but the government does not make an economic policy that reduces inequality and exclusion. At the same time, the government has made an exceptional choice of values in that it does not even seek to reduce the income gap. The increase in inequality is in the wrong direction, and the big problem is that the poverty of some is so deep that basic security is no longer working. The number of people receiving long-term income support is increasing, even though it is planned as a last resort. By allowing poverty to continue, the government is in danger of creating a new generation of disadvantaged people. We cannot pay them back for the poverty that we are now living. Mr President! We've been through three consecutive years of record-warming experience. Warming is accelerating, the sea level is rising, the winds are blowing more strongly. Climate change is moving faster than forecasts. The effects of climate change are already here, but ambitious targets for halting climate change are still lacking. In the future budget, the government will also continue to support fossil fuels and massive support for the use of peat, even though peat is worse than coal, for example. Yesterday, the signing of the Paris climate agreement was two years ago. Responding to the climate crisis requires more extensive action than the government has been able to do. The forest is badly hit by the reduction of carbon sinks in forests and the risk of biodiversity. By doing so, the government leaves the generations of the future a huge climate debt. It is a debt that, as it grows, can endanger society as a whole. Mr President! The Greens are following closely, we are following closely the government's approach to the proposals made by experts on the need to cut subsidies for businesses and the reform of the family leave system. Major structural reforms need to be made, even though the government has been reluctant and slow to bring about these reforms. Finland’s business support system is stagnating. Business subsidies are now being paid at around EUR 4 billion. Studies show that only 11% of all aid is for economic reform, and several aids have been shown to be ineffective. The use of fossil fuels slows down climate protection and increases costs, and inefficient business subsidies distort competition and hinder economic development. In addition, the reform of the family leave system would have an employment impact, an upward employment rate, and would strengthen equality in Finnish society. Mr President! This government will continue its unparalleled, anti-educational, short-sighted and invisible policy next year. As mentioned earlier, the government will leave climate debt, knowledge debt and poverty debt to future generations. We believe that the time has come to discuss the long-term impact of government policy on the everyday lives of Finns. The path chosen by the government is not sustainable. It lacks a vision for the future. Mr President! On these grounds, I would like to put forward a motion of censure to the government in accordance with the Greens' protest. Our beloved country, Finland, which celebrated 100 years earlier, deserves a much better economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u10	Madam President! Like others, the Left Alliance is delighted with the improvement in the economic situation. It is great that growth is no longer based solely on private consumption, but also on increased and diversified exports and investments. Unfortunately, unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, has not been sufficiently reduced, and some of this is explained by the cleaning up of statistics. The main reason for growth is that Finland benefits from increased demand for Europe and the global economy. In addition, the ECB’s financial recovery and low interest rates have stimulated investment, increased debt-driven private consumption and increased property values. Companies have made good innovations and products and services for which buyers can be found. Of these factors the government cannot take credit, rather the contrary. In the process of recession, the government worsened the situation with its decisions when it pushed through billions of euros in expenditure adjustments when public demand should have been increased. Mr President! When the left, supported by a number of leading economists, put forward a more stimulating fiscal policy to support the economy and employment and to launch investments to promote sustainable structural change, we were called irresponsible debt-holders from the ministerial stage who do not think about the future of our children and grandchildren. Now that it's booming, you're going to bring back debt with tax cuts that favour rich people and increase income differentials. Billions of tax cuts for those who are doing well anyway are neither socially fair nor fiscally reasonable. As a result of the tax recovery, inequality is increasing and the welfare state is deteriorating when the state is no longer able to afford public services or basic human security. As a result of the tax recovery, you will increase government debt, but you will no longer be concerned about the legacy of our grandchildren. Many experts from the mainstream of economics, as well as the Economic Policy Review Council, have also joined the criticism of the government's failed and incorrectly timed fiscal policies. Mr President! The collective bargaining agreement between the bourgeois government and the employers' hawk line, which is also known as the Competitiveness Pact, is one of the key factors behind the billion-dollar cuts and the weak financial position of central government finances. It gives to businesses and takes away workers and the state. You forced employees to take social contributions from employers and to work three unpaid working days a year. In addition, you took another third of the holiday money from low-paid employees on the public side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u19	Mr President! Politik att cereals, politics is a matter of will — that is what we know Olof Palme once said. He was absolutely right. It is possible to prioritise differently, although sometimes it may seem difficult to make greater changes to the Committee on Budgets' budget. However, we must be clear: there are alternatives and there is a better alternative to government policy. I am willing to admit that next year's budget is the best of the Sipilä government so far, but that is not enough. The RKP and the Swedish Parliament Group are calling for a more ambitious policy. But as has been said, there are also individual good signs in government policy. For example, it is good that the fees for day care are reduced. Families with children benefit from such a policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u20	Mr President! Finland has finally absorbed the growth of the global economy. It's a happy thing. The economic downturn that has been going on for years has ended, but the recovery has been exceptionally slow. There are several reasons for positive export developments. Sufficient cost competitiveness alone is not sufficient to achieve balanced economic growth. In the longer run, productivity developments depend on innovation and the efficient allocation of resources in order to obtain the best products. However, decent cost competitiveness is a necessary condition for good growth and employment. It is easier to influence through policy measures than through productivity. There is no reason to underestimate the efforts made in recent years to improve competitiveness, for which I am also grateful to the social partners. Mr President! Education, health care, pension security and other infrastructures in modern society are all the fruits of economic growth, but also the prerequisites for it. At the same time as the debt burden continues to increase, the dependency ratio weakens and age-related expenditure increases. It would therefore be extremely important for the reform of social protection to be completed in such a way that the original objectives of the reform with regard to the integration and accessibility of services and the reduction of cost increases are realised. This key reform could not afford to fail. The model of freedom of choice, the model that has now been proposed by the government, reminds me of the title of the Financial Times a few weeks ago: "Trump deliverers, but not for everyone". Mr President! The Christian Democratic Parliament has taken account of the realities of the economy. Even during the boom, the government cannot uncontrollably increase expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u25	Madam President! Let me begin by saying what was obviously overlooked in the Greens' group statement that the government has started budgeting for sustainable development, first of all, could be said, or second in the world. Each ministry has developed concrete ideas on how to implement sustainable development objectives in the budget. This is a big start and an important thing for future generations. But perhaps at the beginning, thanks to the parliamentary committees for their good work on the budget, for their in-depth consultations and ideas. It is like putting money into a bank when they are being studied and planned, in the budgets of the coming years, perhaps there will be an even greater key to this logic of budgetary activity. Now for this situation. It is good that it is now widely observed, the economy is growing, the debt ratio was already broken in 2016 in relation to GDP. The debt is coming to an end. According to the Treasury's estimate, we will now be able to raise some EUR 3 billion of net loans this year, which is still 1.5 billion less than expected in the autumn, one half less, three billion less than we thought a year ago. We have every chance of ending our debt completely within the framework of the government's term, but it still requires more work and stronger economic growth. Employment is improving, no 72 is an impossible goal, and yet we must move on from it. In the coming years, it will be up to us to reach the 75% Nordic level so that we can safeguard today's well-being. The tax rate will fall from 44% to 42%, an excellent achievement and result when it comes to supporting economic growth, employment and ensuring well-being. The tax burden on labour has been reduced by 1.3 billion, with the emphasis on the low and middle income — the low and the middle income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u43	Before that, Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u44	Madam President! Thank you to the committee and its chairman for a well-drafted report. When this government took up its duties, our task was to correct the downward spiral of Finland. We had to put the state finances in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u53	And now let's start the debut. I'll ask those involved to report to it. Let us start with one round between the groups for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u54	Mr President! Yes, it was interesting to hear both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance's analysis of the speeches we have made. It confirmed the position of the government, and it was nice to hear that part of the opposition was also involved. It is understandable that the left-wing opposition is trying to achieve an election success with the fruits we have produced by highlighting the interests of individual people, voting people. But in my opinion, such a balanced line must be that the economy must become so strong that these family and other social interests can be realised without further borrowing. This is a very balanced presentation under the circumstances from which we started, and the speed is almost skyrocketing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u57	Mr President! In my opinion, the analysis by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister was correct, but when the opposition expressed opinions here — and it is up to them to challenge the government and offer alternatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u69	Mr President! In times of difficulty, the economy could also be balanced in such a way,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u77	Madam President! The performance of this government has been well measured. Government action has produced results, the economy has recovered. Finland is doing very well. Although the ideological debate is waning from side to side, it can be said as a whole that Finland is doing well. It's especially visible up there in the north. There tourism is growing and livelihoods are developing. When assessing the functioning of this government, the transport routes will be put in better shape than ever before. I hope that this kind of government base will also be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u82	Mr President! Mr Suutari, representative of the Coalition Party, said that some opposition parties have had rather foolish proposals here. In the debate on the transmission of alternative budgets, the Finns of Finland received praise from the representative of the Government Party for our entrepreneurship, employment and youth package. That is why I am still marketing this and I hope that these will be raised. I also noticed that this had been noted in the ministerial box — at least we were not mentioned: the Finns of Peru are not raising taxes on work, pensioners and families and on business taxation. On the contrary, we would even be reducing them in relation to the government. We have not wanted to become a barrier to growth. It was said here somewhere that we are doing non-politically in the opposition. This is always so difficult when we are not, although it is said here, the SDP sub-section of the main opposition party, but we are our own party. [Laughter — From the Group of the Party of European Socialists: Fortunately!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u85	Madam President! It is responsible for economic policy to be concerned about the government's poverty debt, climate debt and knowledge debt. Economic populism is to close your eyes to the long-term effects of decisions, as the government does, as the coalition likes to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u88	Madam President! Minister of Finance Orpo, is it entirely responsible for a situation in which GDP growth of around 3% is projected for next year, in a context of growth that will reduce the general government deficit in relation to GDP from 0.12 to 0.14 from this year? The general government deficit in relation to GDP is deteriorating as a result of the upward trend and is the result of your debt recovery in the form of a tax recovery. You would be able to pursue a greater balance in public finances, to correct it more than balance, but you have made a value choice: rather tax breaks favouring high incomes than fiscal balances and reducing the debt burden on future generations. Mr President! Of these income differences: no matter how beautifully the Prime Minister spoke, how important the value choice is, the actions speak differently, and it really has to be taken seriously. As far as these reforms are concerned, I will continue to address this mess of social security. The cow trade that you did a couple of years ago, that the centre received the so-called provincial model, the so-called provincial administration, and the coalition received the market-driven social and health system and the then basic Finns the opportunity to hang on to the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u90	Irade the Talman! Nästa års statsbudget änker Skatten på arbete. Det är är rätt väg att gå. Det förbättrar Finlands kkonkurrenskraft, det skapar sysselsättningsmöjligheter, och som vi vet förbättrar det landets economist. Det bästa jättet att lyfta folk ur fattigdom är stänkt skatt på arbete, men det är otillräckligt. En färsk skittimförelse avslöjar att katteprocent för en vanlig medelinkomstägare i Finland klart överskrider medeltalet i övriga Europa. Man kan tala om ett problem om en medelinkomstagare i Finland har en skattesats som är hela 5.9 percentheter högre an i Sverige.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u91	Mr President! The government assures me that they're going to take this to the finish line, so I thought I'd talk a little bit about it. The model now proposed will lead to greater freedom of choice for those who are able to monitor their interests and actively seek better services. The most challenging areas for the customer’s influence are those areas where the reform creates or has already created a private monopoly. These proposed policies on freedom of choice would differentiate services and the population within social areas. The guidelines would open up the possibility for companies to select their customers, for example, by targeting marketing on the low-service part of the population, such as health care customers. Until now, I have not seen credible ways of preventing this so-called cream peeling. At present, the service level is differentiated so that those most in need receive less and less. They would continue to be guided by public ownership-based services. The Christian Democrats are in favour of increasing freedom of choice by extending the service voucher system so that the province can, at its discretion, introduce service vouchers, but we are not in favour of subjective rights to the service voucher.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u94	And two more minutes for Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u95	Madam President! Three things have risen over the others in this debate: the balance of public finances, the fact that growth belongs to everyone, and inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u101	Let us move on to the one-minute speeches. — — — — Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u102	Mr President! A civilised society, a society that is one of the richest in the world, takes care of the poorest and weakest people under all circumstances. In the circumstances in which the economy is growing, it is incomprehensible that we do not want the development of inequalities and the problems it causes to be corrected now in the budget proposed by the government. Last week I went to Mäntsälä, among those who took care of the food queues to get to know the situation. Between 600 and 700 people visit the food line every Wednesday at 6 p.m. for lack of money. There the number of families with children has continued to increase, say the people in charge of the food line. Mr Sipilä, Mr Orpo, would it not be time to put an end to this increase in inequality? You can afford it now. Cancel the index cuts, as suggested by the group chairman of the Central Party, Mr Kaikkonen, during the weekend. Cancel those index cuts and make a clean Christmas present for the public sector workers by cancelling the holiday money cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u103	Mr President! This policy for the government has so far been such that Wahlroos cannot pay, but certainly when it comes to families with children or pensioners, they will pay the bills of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u107	Madam President! Indeed, when you look at the anti-budgetary statements, it does not work in the way that there is virtual income and real expenditure, but that they both have to be in real time. Three things have, in my view, become clearer in connection with the Committee on Budgets and even more clear in this regard. What are three important issues for the Finnish economy: employment rate, employment rate, employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u112	Madam President! The policy of the SDP is double-faced. This is where they're calling for index cuts to be cancelled. In 2015, before the elections, the then President-in-Office, Rinne, said that they were ready to adjust to EUR 3 billion right at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and the savings in index increases amount to EUR 800 million, and now Rinne and Viitanen are calling for the government to cancel the index increases,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u115	Madam President! I would like to correct Mr River in this position he has just expressed: the Socialist option has never addressed the index of basic security and social security. They have not been cut or frozen, and I hope that you will now take this into account in the next speeches. I challenge in this context — when the opposition has been accused here, the Social Democrats are in debt to this country:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u118	Madam President! I have here an article from the Helsingin Sanomat, 20.3. from 2015
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u124	Mr Rinne, and then the debate will be expanded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u125	Mr President! I would like to reiterate that I have said on several occasions that there will be no index cuts to basic security, social security. But while we continue this discussion, I will show you about this pattern:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u128	Mr President! This budget is a responsible budget made by the government parties, the blues, the centre and the coalition together. In order to raise the level of this debate, it might be necessary to change the practices so that alternative budgets will be made together in the opposition in the future. Then would such an equal conversation post here. [Heckling — Laughing]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u129	Mr President! There's no point in the group and the Social Democrats arguing here. Last season, you showed us what you did together: 100,000 new unemployed, huge debt trends and deficits everywhere and the plight of the municipalities. But, fortunately, in the past two years or so, a turning point has taken place. It is a fact, and it must be given a partial recognition by the government. Of course, the world economy and many other factors have had a positive impact. Now growth is good, and in this budget that we are now dealing with, unfortunately, for example, poor, sick people will not find any relief in their lives. I think they are in the worst position at the moment and choose whether to buy bread or medicine. In this situation, there should be no human being in Finland. Well, it is now, and it is your fault that you are not in this budget next year either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u130	Mr President! I was here today to hear how young people feel about safety. Their main concern is the loss of justice and unity in society, the increase in inequality and part of it falls from the sled. When you look at the government’s budget against this, you don’t get enough medicines for young people’s concerns. The government will continue to cut from the lowest income. More and more poverty has become commonplace. Poverty has become so deep that basic security is no longer viable and, for example, the number of people receiving long-term income support is increasing, even though it is intended as a last resort and as a temporary measure. Secondly, equality in education has been undermined. The right to early childhood education has been limited and group sizes have been increased. The basis for education has been broken and not corrected by the small investments that are now being made. This threatens to drop more and more young people off the sled. I would ask the government whether you are prepared to cancel the restriction on subjective day care so that we can guarantee equal rights for every child.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u131	Mr President! There has been a good debate here on the way in which the Convention fails to deliver on the promise of education, but I find it interesting and rather unusual that today, in many speeches by the people of the Coalition Party, there has been criticism of Jyrki Katainen for his failure to improve employment when he was Prime Minister. As I have said before, I consider this to be relatively unfair to him, given the situation in the euro area as a whole. But there is no reason to be surprised about this procyclical fiscal policy in Finland. In other words, when the recession was at its peak, at its deepest, it was drastically adjusted. People then wonder why employment is not rising. And now that the economic turn has taken place and the economy is growing, you will change the line and start tax recovery in a way that favours good-income Finns the most. If this government were serious about these speeches on equality,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u132	Mr President! Congressman Jokinen well recalled the SDP's election promises. You would have cut 800 million out of the state's share of the municipalities. That, of course, fits your line, which was during the previous government. They've been squatting on the town. It meant that basic municipal services of importance to the citizen — early childhood education, basic education, health care — were put at risk. You were prepared to continue along the same lines, away from 800 million municipalities, and you here will then be pious that you would not have gone into this basic security. Yes, basic services are basic security for ordinary residents who need that basic education, early childhood education and then those health care services. It was very good that this issue came up in this debate in the light of the facts. That's good. This government has succeeded in turning economic development in a truly positive direction. Employment is improving, tax revenues are increasing, competitiveness is improving, and the government's basic economic policy is playing a very important role here. The Sipilä government got a very bad legacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u133	Mr President! The economy has been balanced by this government by EUR 4 billion, but by cutting off the most disadvantaged: it has been cut off from students, pensioners, unemployed, families with children. And at the same time as the state is in debt, tax reductions have mainly been made for high incomes. There has been a reduction in forest gifts, a reduction in entrepreneurship, a reduction in millions of inheritances, a reduction in pharmacies. This is exactly what Mr Uotila has said here: the deficit is deepening at the same time. Government's first question should be how to deal with poverty lurking in the shadows of a welfare society. The last government did more adjustment than this government, but at the same time income differentials narrowed, and now they are growing. Now people out there choose between bread and medicine. Now that economic growth has started,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u134	Mr President! For many of the measures we are currently seeing good decisions and the direction is quite right, but in some cases those steps are very modest. Minister Orpo has said here on several occasions that the labour market should be reformed. We fully agree that the labour market should be reformed in a sensible way. What prevents you from making the sensible structural reforms in the labour market that would carry this Finnish society forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u135	Mr President! We are certainly all pleased that the economy is finally growing and employment is improving, but, despite economic growth, not everyone can enjoy it. The life situation of families with children, the elderly and the disadvantaged is not improved because the government has both cut and frozen indices. Child allowances, national pensions, basic allowances, labour market subsidies, sickness and parental allowances — nothing happens to them, they become weaker in proportion even though the economy is growing. However, the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has pointed out the possibility of us five-year-olds having free early childhood education. In my opinion, this indicates that there would be some sort of allocation margin in the budget after all. The young representatives of the city centre, Mr Kulmunen, and also Mr Kurvinen, have pointed out that, in this situation, would it not be more important to ensure that the life situation of those who depend on these basic benefits is improved? I would now like to ask the government which line you would now be prepared to make small transfers from that budget: shall we leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u136	To this stage of the debate, I would like to add the following contributions: Mäkelä Outi, Kääriäinen and Heinäluoma. Then the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u137	Mr President! Yes, we are now in a position to have the courage to face up to the facts. We have this saying that the word man, the horn bull, and now I ask without horns and teeth: Are you, Mr Rinne, a man of your word? Where would you have taken this EUR 800 million when you said that you would be prepared to look for savings in index increases? Indeed, the economy is now living in such a time that we have not only these good news, but also these bad news. The bad news is that, in this situation, when we continue to fight with the rise in employment rates and the fall in debt, the world economy has already started to decline. This means that, in our own country, we must fight even harder and undertake bold reforms, and indeed these, which have already been mentioned several times — family leave reform, greater local reconciliation, social security reform and various educational reforms —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u138	Mr. Speaker! The recent outline of the economic policy of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister is convincing in these circumstances, even if it is very critical. Yes, they are convincing from the point of view of a strong increase in employment and a comfortable flow of tax revenue into the cashier — in such a way that debt can also be controlled, services secured and, hopefully, even more affected by inequality than has been the case so far. Above all, this increase in the threshold is fundamental. 70 are starting to be on the platter, 72 must be pursued strictly during this parliamentary term, and 75 must be put in a row now to take Finland to 75 at the latest during the next parliamentary term. We already have to start thinking about those solutions. In parallel with this, we need to consider reforms to curb the social exclusion of young people and child poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u139	Mr President! "You can't think about how much money you'll have to spend on food-absorbing drugs. Now that the economy is on the move, it must also be seen in the everyday lives of people living with basic security." Antti Kaikkonen, the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre, said so strongly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u140	And now we are taking ministers' speeches, Mr Orpo, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u141	Mr President! First, this structural deficit, which Mr Uotila asked about, among other things: It is true that this government's policy of economic policy is also correcting it at the moment. As the employment rate improves, the number of unemployed people decreases and tax revenues increase, it automatically improves there in the background. [ Hustles from the left] Still for the SDP: You have a perfect blind spot, a perfect blind spot for improving employment and falling into debt. You will not confess, you will resort to all kinds of trickery when you talk about things here. It is true that employment is improving. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u142	At this point, before we proceed with the debate, we will take Prime Minister Sipilä, 2 minutes, and Minister Terhon, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u143	Mr President! The Minister of Finance gave strong proof of what is at the heart of this government's mission: to increase employment rates, reduce unemployment, and thereby reduce inequalities and thus make it possible to save the welfare society. As far as taxation is concerned, most of the tax reductions, which are subject to enormous criticism here, are the implementation of the competitiveness pact. This government is a supporter of the contractual society. We agreed on this, that is our part, and we will also stick to this agreement. We also insist on what we have agreed together to tackle this sustainability gap: the EUR 10 billion sustainability gap, 4 billion of it will be cut. Those surgical decisions have been made and we will stick to them. As far as the longer-term issues are concerned, discussions on them will be allowed and also on what will be the possible margin for manoeuvre next year, how it will be used. Congressman Rinne, 800 million for the indexes. Of this government's plan of 4 billion, the index accounts for 1000 million, 1 billion. So basically we're talking about the same amount when we're talking about freezing the indexes. Where would you have found 800 million without taking the very measures that this government has taken? Congressman Uotila, you were concerned about the balance of public finances. It is true that this year's forecast has already come close to 1%, and if these signs are true now, which seem to be getting stronger and stronger, that tax revenue will be more, I believe that we will be able to reach the same figures for next year as well. Congressman Kalli, what could we have done differently? At least by tightening taxes, we would not be in this situation where we are today, in this good development of employment. That would have been the biggest mistake that this government could have made in the course of its government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u144	Mr President! Mr Meri asked about EU issues, above all the preparation of the EMU, for the breakdown of the Eurosystem. We are always preparing for the problems of the Eurosystem, but, above all, from the point of view that we are now trying to avoid the chaos you anticipate, because if the European monetary system falls, then the situation will be very serious. Of course, we do it on many levels. We are constantly preparing to strengthen the stability of the currency by eliminating moral hazard, increasing market conditions, undermining the fate of banks and states and abolishing the policy of aid packages. This can be achieved in practice by implementing a banking union in such a way that risks are balanced before a banking union is put in place and by creating a bankruptcy mechanism that allows the bankruptcy of a single euro country without jeopardising the financial stability of other Member States. When we talk more generally about this international economic trend, the left-wing opposition has constantly pointed out that the international economic trend has brought all the good things to Finland too, but I cannot help noticing that during the last parliamentary term the international upturn did not help you to raise Finland up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u147	There is now a clear need for a debate, and Mr Rinne will begin the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u148	Mr President! It is wonderful to have yet to present the 2015 election programme, which was very good. In relation to these indices, it says that the index increases in pensions, income support and other benefits will be fully implemented, the central government share of basic services and the distribution of costs between municipalities and the state will be reviewed normally and the majority of other automatic increases will be carried out in half. This was our choice. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u150	Mr President! The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, said that the budget is producing results, and that is what it is doing. It's a bit of poverty-free. To quote group leader Kaikko, pensioners have to choose between bread and medicine. It produces results — in addition to increasing poverty, income disparities are increasing. It weakens Finland’s educational level. It increases the group sizes of day care and takes subjective day care. You said, Minister Orpo, that these are value choices. So your choice of values is to cut the poor and distribute tax reductions to high incomes. Your choice of values is to punish the unemployed for unemployment, the active unemployed. And here, the representative of the Greens, Mr Vartia, wants — if they can get to work — to cut wages. That's another thing. Now the question is: this is the line of the coalition, but whether it is downtown or blue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u151	Mr President! According to Statistics Finland, in June 2015, the number of unemployed persons was 7,700, in June 2015. Even with worse arithmetic, you understand that you're going in the right direction. Mr Arhinmäki raised the issue of taxation. If you look at income tax, it has, of course, been reduced. This year, nearly EUR 300 million will be reduced and next year, but according to the Finnish Taxpayers' Federation, the Finnish average wage will be taxed in Sweden by more than 5 percentage points lower than in Finland. Think of the average income, such as the Finnish class teacher: this means the difference in annual income of EUR 2,200 — a significant difference. For example, Sweden must be able to reduce this difference. And if you are talking about high incomes, then at least the blue line is precisely that there is a middle class tax rebellion, middle class taxation is reduced, and that is what you would think.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u152	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Arhinmäki and others that Mrs Vartia, the representative of the Greens, has said: 'It is clear that people's income must be sufficient to live. A combination of pay and income transfers is needed to make people part of society." However, we will probably agree that people's livelihoods must be in order. Mr President! Finland’s economy is growing, and it is bright to talk about it. But as the festival of light approaches, it is good to note that the shadow always falls next to the light. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of mere income differences, their magnitude or their small size ignores the fact that it is a fact that this government has not taken very effective measures to eradicate poverty or to stop the development of inequalities. You can't brag about it, even though the economy is growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u153	Mr President! Instead of arguing over this past, I would like to draw the whole Chamber's attention to this key fact that, although the economy is now growing rapidly and, according to the Ministry of Finance's review, we will be in a cyclically balanced and even slightly over-heated state next year, we will continue to be in debt. That is why the only true time-frame for fiscal policy is that the structural deficit from now on will be strengthened every year, every year, and this is a very critical aspect for all of us. The government too, as the Committee on Finance states in its report, must pay attention to this, because in the current medium-term forecast this kind of strengthening is not strong enough — and this is particularly true for next year, next autumn. After all, Finland has a hem sin in its economic history to accelerate public spending when it comes to the election year and the boom season. During the next term of government, every single party in every government
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u154	All right, let's stick to these one-minute response times.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u155	President! Indeed, although the economic outlook is good, our export and investment prospects are good, we must insist that consumer purchasing power continues to develop well. And in that sense, the programme for the price of our housing and the price of electricity must be taken into account, and index cuts in this situation for next year would be a bad policy. Furthermore, the fiscal policy line is all right, it is good, but we would have to support production potential. On the other hand, when we consider that the state is constantly in debt and that the balance sheet of the state is deteriorating, we must also try to make adjustments. On the other hand, we also need to find 50,000 new jobs, but where do they come from when we still have an existing skills gap and mismatches, we have under-training and over-training? And then I want to say something about the social reform. That may be the biggest problem in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u156	Irade the Talman! Mr Nylund made a good speech earlier on about the incentive traps that should indeed be dismantled. It should be self-evident that if the salary rises, at least half of it will be left to the wage earner. It has indeed been a little like that with the reforms, but now that the blue resistance seems to have broken, we are also about to have a family leave reform. There must be hope in the air. Prime Minister Sipilä said that local agreement has progressed. I assume that he is referring here to an agreement in the technology industry, which is indeed relatively flexible, but the government has its own work to do, has its own tools that could be put in place. Although the Kiki agreement was not due to the government or at least to the cause, and when you say that we still have a frightening level of structural unemployment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u157	Mr President! I really have stayed to listen to this debate. Do you know what observation I've made? I have made the observation that no representative of the city centre has taken a position here on these basic safety cuts, what you have done and what you are calling for in your field speeches. I would be interested to know whether the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre is just talking to himself or whether he has now been removed from the Chamber because he has spoken things that should not be said in this Chamber. [Department: I'm sure! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u158	Mr President! This time, when the opposition has gone and shouted that nothing has been done by the government, just as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have said, let these acts speak for themselves. Please note, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, what is happening in this country. Investment is increasing at a fierce rate. The forest industry, the metal industry, the electrical industry — all over the world is investing, and they are long-term investments that will affect decades to come. In your time, there were no jobs in industry, but 100,000 more unemployed. You yourself were doing this, and now you are blaming the government there. Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u159	Mr President! I do not know what medicine is being taken by the Minister of Finance Orpo and the representatives of the government parties, but at least it does not have an effect on hearing. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u160	Mr President! When you listen to the Chairman of the SDP, Rinnetta, the main opposition party, you can say that you are now in the middle of an economic policy line. You have lost the content of your previous election promises, but you are also missing the idea on which the Finnish welfare society is based. You said that improving employment would not benefit the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u163	Mr President! This government will remain in the history of economic growth, but inequality will increase in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u166	President! In his group statement, Mr Nylund said that this was the best budget for this government. I believe that now that the government is in a position to do things, next year will be an even better budget. But with patience, we grow rich, not by fighting. But even at this stage, after the next election, I would like to congratulate the parties and the people coming to the government negotiations. It is much easier to get started than after the 2015 elections. It was an extremely traumatic experience for me too, Mr Gustafsson, to be in that training group when it was realised how miserable and disastrous the state economy is. All sectors had to be cut. I was gonna jump out Smolna's window and be a deserter. But I'm glad we didn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u167	Mr President! In last week's debate on inequality, Mr Kontula spoke aptly about how decisive it is for equality to be the way in which wealth and strength are divided between the different population groups. The fact that there is growth does not yet remove the problem of inequality. The key is how good is divided and who gets to experience participation and can thus also be in the process of building a common relationship. It is not that we do not see the increase in employment as extremely important, but that too many people are left out of it at this moment. For too many human lives, we take too big a risk here and now. We are also taking too great a risk with regard to the structures of the welfare state, such as the billion-dollar cuts in education. The prerequisites for our education system to create inclusion for all and to ensure that everyone stays on board have deteriorated significantly. Who's gonna take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u168	To this stage of the debate, I would like to add the following: Mr Kalli, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Rinne. Then the Minister's speech. Then we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u169	President! This is where the budget for next year is based. As far as I am aware, Mr Kaikkonen and the other representatives of the Centre have not given a small word to the budget under discussion. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u170	Mr President! Yes, this debate shows that the fins of the left-wing opposition, especially the SDP, are running low. Congressman Rinne, it was not clear where the 800 million index savings would have come from. Mr Rinne, do you really think that economic growth, improving employment will not do anything to help families with children and pensioners? How do you think that their transfer and services will ultimately be financed? The government's work policy is working, the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, tax cuts on work can be made. You cannot blame the results of government policy. So you criticised the increase in inequality and income inequality. Throughout this millennium, income differentials have not increased. You're complimenting me on the last term of office. Yes, that's when they stared at the Gini coefficient and made it stay the same. The fact that there were 100,000 more unemployed at the same time did not seem to you to be a problem. Congressman Kiuru, those training reforms you were supposed to do, you'll find when you look into your briefcase. That's where they stayed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u171	Mr President! I am not surprised at the fact that there is so much attack on the assembly when it reminds me of this debt, that it is the party that has owed Finland most of all parties since 87, and I am not surprised at the fact that the predecessor of Minister Orpo made this educational promise together with Prime Minister Sipilä and the chairmen of all other parties. It must be annoying when it comes to what has been said and then, after all, what has been done in practice. Mr President! The fact is that, at the moment, the children who have been cut off are currently unemployed, the students who have been cut off do not benefit from the fact that future economic growth will then improve the situation. We can afford to take care of the poorer in this society, too. So does the civilised welfare state, which, under the leadership of the Coalition Party, is shriveled in Finnish society. The Coalition Party is killing the Finnish welfare state. I would like to hear from you, Minister Orpo, whether you are prepared to quickly cancel these index cuts and the holiday money cuts you are from the police, teachers and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u172	First we take Minister Lindström for 2 minutes, then Minister Orpo and Minister Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u173	Mr President! Of course, I will only comment on this issue of employment, although of course it cannot be described as 'only'. That is very important, in fact, probably the most important thing in the government's budget for the coming year. Here, in my opinion, Mr Nylander asked a question worthy of consideration: what prevents sensible reforms in working life? Well, we all understand these sensible reforms a little differently. If someone says that he feels that this is reasonable, the other one says that it is not. In other words, when it comes to what prevents, then the opposition to everything is one thing that prevents, the fear of a new one prevents reform, the fear of less support for the party, does not dare to reform, and then the general fear of confidence prevents reform. This government has dared to make reforms, and every time we have brought a reform to this Chamber for discussion, it has mainly been called "stuck" and, among other things, I have received personally interesting feedback in relation to these reforms. Nevertheless, they have been taken through here. You just have to have the courage to do this. But then the means that we have now used at this point are beginning to be... — Let's just say that the bucket bottom has been dug out. The IMF has presented matters to Finland in this kind of country survey, what we should still do: the need for further reform of the labour market, in particular the necessary flexibility of wage formation at company level — thus referring to local agreement
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u174	Secretary Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u175	Mr President! I am extremely pleased that both the SDP and the Left Alliance have said that it is a great thing that employment is improving.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u178	Secretary Terho, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u179	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson raised this very important issue of youth, and I can assure you that this is not something we are missing, but that we all understand here that the exclusion of young people is the worst thing that can happen to society, both humanly and economically. There are a lot of measures. As a key tool, we have the Youth Act, which came into force at the beginning of 2017, and the national youth work and policy programme based on it. As a new means of developing youth activities, the centres of excellence in the youth field will be designated during 2018. In addition, the Youth Guarantee, which I mentioned, is now a key project for us as the Youth Guarantee in the direction of the Community guarantee, will be targeted at activities that will deepen cooperation between the service providers of young people and will bring together successful approaches for the benefit of the national community. Workshop activities for young people and outreach youth work will be supported as part of this key project. What more concrete can you ask? Representative Rinte's constantly waving chart — I don't know if it's some sort of humor or what it's all about, but if I realize it's listed who's been in the government...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u182	At the beginning of this debate, the representatives who spoke in groups will be prioritised.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u183	Mr President! Yes, the greatest sustainability gap in this society is social; the sustainability gap is not really economic. We are now looking at things from the wrong perspective. The Minister of Finance continues to emphasise this economic sustainability gap. Prime Minister Sipilä also said that ten billion sustainability projects are still under way here, and it shows that the direction of the government is not going to change. This is a rather hard economic populism: when the economy did not grow, high incomes were revived in order to have purchasing power and crumbs on high incomes, then perhaps even on low incomes, and now that the economy is growing, high incomes are revived. And I agree with Mrs Kaikkonen, who has now come to the Chamber, that a change of direction is needed here, and in that respect I think it is quite right, as Mrs Kaikkonen says,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u184	Mr President! Mr Rinne is talking about indebtedness of the coalition, but I think this is a distortion of history. In bad times, the people demand that the assembly be in the government. If you think that the 2008 economy collapsed by 40 per cent, exports collapsed and national product by 8 per cent, it was financed in the first year with a debt of EUR 12 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u187	Mr President! It was said here that we are now dealing with the budget, but we are also dealing with the amendments. There, for example, it is suggested by the Finns of Finland that index cuts should not be made and that improvements in the cost of medicines should be made, so, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, you are allowed to participate in these performances, which is no obstacle if your mind has indeed changed. Minister Terho said that EU problems will be addressed. He said that there are threats that I pose. So these proposals are presented by economists that some plans should be made, so these are not just my ideas, I rely on the wiser ones. Mr Lindström left, but I am a little confused by the fact that he always talks about being forced to bring performances and not caring about what the voters say. Yeah, you got to keep the party line. I would have liked to hear more about it from him,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u188	Mr President! However, we must now make a serious appeal to the fact that the Minister of Finance has always said here that neither on the side of the table nor on this side of the table can be relied on for anything other than the independent forecasts of the Ministry of Finance: in September, when the Ministry of Finance announces that the government deficit in relation to GDP will be reduced from 1.2% to 1.4% next year, and it has also been reported in the report — the three-year improvement will turn negative next year — I think it is true and should not be underestimated or put on the tab of populism at all. And with regard to these tax reductions, if a low-income public finance employee had been allowed to choose whether to take a small tax reduction or to be forced to do three more unpaid working days a year, a third of the holiday money will be cut and, in addition, the social security contributions due to his employer will be transferred to his tab, which would he actually have chosen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u189	Mr President! I would like to talk about the long-term challenge. The Economic Assessment Council drew attention in committee to the fact that public finances are being weighed down by a sustainability gap of 3% of GDP, and when Finland’s population ages, this will affect the sustainability of our economy: the sustainability gap will thus worsen. We therefore need workers from abroad, but this government has been making the most exclusive immigration policy for a long time. The Government has done everything in its power to break the so-called attractiveness of Finland. They're already expelling people who work here. It is said that people want to integrate, but at the same time people are deprived of the right to family reunification. I would have asked the Minister for Finance: how is the government prepared for the long-term challenge of:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u191	Mr President! The attitudes of Finns towards taxation are amazingly positive. Ninety-six per cent of Finns regard taxation as a fair way to finance a welfare society. But what does the government do? During the period of economic growth, you are cutting off the poor and the sick, you are allocating EUR 200 million of tax gifts to your own interest groups each year, yet you are increasing the sustainability gap so that there is a risk that the EU Commission will intervene. I can't believe it. This is such a spaghetti that the jeans are torn. The government has spoken about the road map of taxation — it is needed when you are lost. Representative The shoemaker distorts the truth by exaggerating our tax increases without mentioning our tax reductions accordingly. In the SDP model, people with low and average income receive several hundred more per year than in the government proposal, as well as pensioners, as well as beneficiaries of benefits and also small entrepreneurs. Finally, when the Prime Minister promises to bring the war to the finish line,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u192	Mr President! Here representatives of Kaikkonen, then my Kulmun and also Kurvinen have expressed the views that, now that the economy is growing, it would be important to help the most deprived people in this situation. Mr Kalli, chairman of the Committee on Finance, said that none of these proposals had been brought up there in the Committee on Finance. They have then perhaps been more of these speeches that are being given to voters in electoral cottages. I would have asked the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, when the Prime Minister said just now, when I listened carefully to the fact that there was some room for manoeuvre there —'small room for manoeuvre' — he said and talked about next year — what now are the basic benefits that we might be raising in next year's budget? Are they child benefits, national pension, basic daily allowance, unemployment benefit, sickness allowance or parental leave allowance? What is the first thing the Minister of Finance Orpo is going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u193	Mr President! If Members of Parliament are concerned about education, social and health care and small pensions, then at least in my opinion there is little more to talk about than employment, growth and exports. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have good regions and regions where exports are taking place and the economy is rising, for example, Southwest Finland, Vaasa region, but then I have an article here on economic messages that says that "There was a way in the area of Iisalme to get exports to be carried out and order books to be filled—A real Finnish economic miracle was born in Upper Savo", and I would ask the ministers, not necessarily now, but some time later: what should be done in these areas, because in these regions, especially in Upper Savo, there are problems for certain types of companies? These include access to skilled labour, recruitment of managers and, of course, cohabiting jobs. What are we doing here and what decisions are we taking so that these companies can continue to beat results?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u194	Mr President! Yes, the government is now making a very right-wing, cold and hard policy. The economy is growing and, despite this, income differentials are increasing and inequalities are increasing. It's so cold now, you're starting to freak yourself out. In an interview with the press, Mr Kaikonen said that he hoped that the government would come up with some solutions to help the weakest, while at the same time Mr Orpo, the finance minister, said that he wanted free early childhood education from the age of 5. But I do wonder when you look at the actions of the government: at the same time, groups of early childhood education are being raised, subjective day care rights are being limited, indexes are being cut, families with children and the elderly are suffering, medical benefits are being reduced. Yes, it's a little strange, what you're talking about compared to what you're doing. Now we should face up to these things. Let's talk beautiful, but what we're doing is very terrible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u195	Mr President! Three years ago, when the government was being formed, they could not even think or dream that Finland’s economic growth could be this class of what it is. In all evaluations, economic growth was estimated to be much more moderate. And the fact that our economy is now growing by almost 3% this year and next year is admittedly only a good thing, is it not, the opposition? And when we have been criticised for not doing enough for basic security: next year, the person receiving the smallest pensions, the guaranteed pensioner, will receive EUR 344 more money than he did when you were in power. Isn't that about improving basic security? Next year this government will increase the minimum maternity allowance, paternity allowance and sickness allowance by more than EUR 20 per month. Isn't that about improving basic security? Single parents receive EUR 5 additional child benefit. Is that not improving basic security, good opposition? At this stage in the parliamentary term, the previous government
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u196	Mr President! For your best, government, you have tried, and values have guided your work. This is reflected in this yellow book, and it is precisely these values that we would have different numbers in order. We believe that the economy is for the citizens and not for the economy. We'd take less debt than you. Yet you accuse us of taking a debt that children will not have to pay for it in the future. You have been raising debt to those children who will pay it in the future since 2014, Minister Orpo. The fact is that we live in a society with over 100,000 children living below the poverty line and 350,000 pensioners receiving less than EUR 1 000 a month. I'm sure this hypnotism that comes from the government's speeches in this Chamber is incredible to follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u197	Mr President! Many speakers have raised concerns about the safety and exclusion of young people in particular. I note that the government takes into account the importance of internal security in its budget. At the same time, if internal security is compromised, all functions of society and, in the worst case scenario, even social peace will be jeopardised. That would be expensive for this country. In addition to the consequences, the government also deals with the reasons — the reasons for the consequences. It is very important to bring a fair police force where it starts to grow into society: schools. The Government will increase funding for school police activities by EUR 220000. I believe that on the same school job, the police are also doing very good anti-drug education, education where education is needed, for young people. Money will also be added to control the drug street trade, good for you. The Government will also allocate additional funds to foreign surveillance with the aim of enhancing the search for missing persons.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u198	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Finance, I am very pleased that in committee we were able to improve the government's proposal by about EUR 40 million. Even though it's small money, it's important, too. Of course, the fact that Parliament, especially the opposition, is now in a hurry that even the unbreaded cake should be eaten in advance is regrettable. I understand the pressure. The macro-economics move forward faster than the micro-economics, and the problems are obviously in the everyday lives of private people, ordinary citizens, and are still visible there for a long time. The government has had to cut a little bit like it has.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u201	Mr President! It is, of course, fantastic that jobs are being created, that people get to work and that their position improves through this. It also increases tax revenue. But we have a huge number of equal citizens in our society who should also be equal in the distribution of income as far as possible: those people who have done their life's work and are retired or, due to illness, out of this benefit that comes through the workplace. These matters are dealt with in this house through legislation, and now would be a place to look at the most burning points that would require improvement. I believe that this facilitating of the contribution of the sick — the poor — to medicines, for example, to the two lowest income deciles would be a measure that should be taken as a matter of urgency. This is what we are presenting with many other equally responsible measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u202	Mr. Speaker! I have listened with concern to this statement by the opposition, false testimony, about Finnish income differences, because we have very moderate income differences compared internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u207	Mr President! The government praises the new jobs that have been created and achieved, and that is how it is. It has really been a good thing that they have come. But I think that Finland is such a small people that we cannot afford to lose any young or children outside the labour market and education, and if you look at the big figure we now have — 70,000 young people outside the workplace or education — then I wonder why we are not also using these support resources to break long-term unemployment to take these measures, so that the pay subsidy would try to push people forward. We would raise that money: the government would increase the opportunity for young people to work and try out different job opportunities, which would enable them to study a new profession for themselves, because working will certainly improve their desire to go to school,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u208	Mr President! The SDP's group statement said in some way that the government deficit is still growing. What is essential, however, is that the downward spiral of the economy has been brought to an end, and the fact is that public debt in relation to the size of the economy has fallen. But even from the point of view of public finances, it has to be said that you made a very serious mistake in the last parliamentary term: you cut the central government shares by almost EUR 7 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u211	Mr President! Jonathan Swift once said very well that no one is as blind as those who do not want to see. I refer to what you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you said that employment is a blind spot for demarcation. I was right to think about what a blind spot it is, because it is also related to the speech that has just been made. In this alternative budget, I thought that over 100 million, 120 million Social Democrats would invest in the management of employment. That is why the management of employment is a priority for us in ensuring that, through employment and education, people have access to a work path that will give the national economy room for manoeuvre. It can be said that only those who do not want to see this are blind. Now we come to that big question today. You said, Minister of Finance, that all we can afford is employment. Inequality will then be seen at a later stage, as in the pre-budget debate
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u212	Reply to this stage of the debate, Mr Korhonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u213	Mr President! Referring to what Mr Kiuru has just said, I have just asked whether you continue to argue on the part of the SDP that during the last parliamentary term you did not cut directly from services needed by people, i.e. social and health care services, elderly services, day-care centres, education, etc.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u214	Mr President! If we go to these quotes, we'll find some. Winston Churchill said that socialism is the philosophy of failure, the doctrine of ignorance and the praise of envy and the virtue that bears it is a steady division of misery. So this is for the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance. If we go to this quote line, we'll find some. Minister Terho well said that in your group speech, Mr Kiuru, you called for major reforms, but you are opposed to all the major reforms that the government is doing. You said it was a matter of trust. Well, I'm sure you won't be trusted by the people if 100,000 new unemployed came in your four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u217	I give the floor to Mrs Haraka, whose name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u218	Mr President! Year after year, these tax-related studies have revealed what does not seem to go to the head of this government, and it is that Finns believe that taxes are the right way and an acceptable way to finance a welfare society as it is used to understanding and experiencing in the Nordic model. So the vast majority of Finns, in this case 96%, believe that taxation is not excessive in relation to the services it provides, so it is high time that we understood what taxation is needed for. Taxation is not an absolute value, because it finances public services, and the fact that these irresponsible tax cuts, which are distributed to friends in the name of friend capitalism, are undermining public services should stop now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u219	Mr President! In the study to which I refer, it was quite clear that more than 10 % — I admit that I do not remember the exact figure, and the figures must always be precise — specifically said that they are tired and even angry about excessive taxation. They accept the need for taxation, and they trust the Finnish tax authority, which is certainly good for all of us, but they believe that heavy taxation is not good. You keep saying that growth belongs to everyone. Well, I'm sure it's easy for a lot of people to agree that growth should belong to everyone. But just as Minister Terho said, during your period of time, growth was no one's business, because it simply did not have growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u222	Mr President! I will go back a little bit in this debate and I have already withdrawn my own response. — — — — I think it is particularly important that we speak here on behalf of the boys. We need systems that enable people to enter the labour market, even those who have learning difficulties. And now the government's proposal certainly does not contain the financial contributions that would enable the path of people and young boys who want to work to be smoothed out. In that regard, I criticised the government’s proposal that we need tools to enable young people to learn a profession. We are a country of higher education. Mr Kiuru rightly pointed out in his own group that we need higher education and that we will succeed in doing so. But we need tools for a person who does not have a learning capacity for some things. We need paths.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u223	Mr President! It is a great thing that the economy has started to rise, but there is one thing that worries our citizens above all else, and that is social reform. Next year an on-call reform will come into effect, which in practice means that the government is driving down smaller regional hospitals, prohibiting the operation of these hospitals. This means that the queues will lengthen and the patient will suffer. In addition to this, the government calculates that savings will be made, and I would now like to know: Where's the savings coming from? Is it intended to reduce the number of staff, that is to say, reduce the number of doctors, reduce the number of medical staff, or where does the savings come from? So those savings are in the million-dollar category, 100 million-dollar category. Where do they come from? People in the field, in regional hospitals and in the sub-regions, are very worried and do not see what the point is. In addition, this should be done together with the whole of the social welfare reform and therefore the whole on-call reform should be put on ice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u224	One last comment, Mr Paloniemi, and then the minister for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u225	Mr President! I would say to Mrs Myllykoski that the government will continue to reduce youth unemployment and help vulnerable young people. First of all, there will be more training places for 1000 students. It will be possible for young people with a clearly reduced capacity to receive the vocational rehabilitation services they need without a diagnosis. The study of young people who are particularly vulnerable will be supported. The cab is established — a low-threshold service model such as Ohjaamo, which you probably know well, has been established — and the government also decided to finance EUR 3 million in the construction of a young psychosocial support service in the Ohjaamos. Pay subsidies are directed more to under 30-year-olds and so on and so on. It cannot be said that the government does nothing or is not interested in vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u226	Now, Minister Orphan. The idea is that, after Mr Orpo has spoken, we will continue the debate because there seems to be a need for it. After all, the sitting is adjourned at 4 p.m. By that time, at the latest, this debate will end and move on to other matters of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u227	Mr President! Firstly, I will return to this structural deficit because it is a serious question. We have been talking about it for years when we know that Finland is facing a sustainability gap — or we are already facing that problem because our age structure is similar and because we have a low employment rate. After all, these measures have long been taken together to bridge this sustainability gap and they must continue to be implemented, and this means structural reforms in order to achieve a higher employment rate and to make social and health services, among other things, play more smoothly. This is something I do not sugarcoat at all. I'm not saying it's populism if anyone talks about it. This is a major challenge, and it must be remembered even when, in this Chamber, there is enthusiasm for thinking about where new funds could now be allocated in the midst of economic growth. So we're still in debt. I am not hiding that either, but I would also like to say it honestly here. I am glad that this year's outlook for debt is much lower, 3 billion less than was estimated a year ago. It's a huge amount. Hopefully, next year's estimated EUR 3 billion will also be reduced by the fact that we will be able to sustain good economic growth. Economic growth in itself does not yet give us room for manoeuvre, as it must be used primarily to reduce debt. But the room for manoeuvre that Mr Essayah asked about, among other things, lies to some extent in the spending framework, which has been tightened up in the negotiations on the Government Programme, and which will therefore lead to good financial management through the normal spending limits procedure. Within it, space has been left for so-called non-binding appropriations every year. We have to look at the next budget and framework, which is compulsory expenditure, which depends, among other things, on the employment rate. After that, we will see if there is any money, and if there is anything, then the government will meet in the spending limits debate and in the budget debate to consider how these value choices will be made. My own values will then be employment and education, and hence the future. But I am sure there is also a question on the table that has been called for here about where the most critical points are in terms of well-being, in terms of people's survival. Just as the government has made specific contributions now, so must and hopefully we will be able to continue to do. On that basis, the work of Juho Saari is one of the essential elements. A few more comments. Yeah, yes, taxes are not an absolute value,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u228	I will try to give the Minister the floor before 4 p.m., and really, at 4 p.m. it is a break, two hours. This debate will then be resumed at 6 p.m. during the ongoing session. In detail, this is what has just been said. — We will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u229	Mr President! If the government really thought about the future of our children, it would not have made huge savings on children and families with children. Poverty in families with children is a very big problem at the moment. Now the government is patching up its previous bad decisions, but the overall picture of the plight of the poorest children and families with children is not changing. The government seems to have forgotten that investing in children is the best future investment we can ever make. Mr President! From the point of view of reducing inequality, the most important measures would be to withdraw the restriction of subjective day care rights and the increase in group sizes, as these savings mean that early childhood education will no longer pave the way for children to learn in the same way as it did in the past. Since even the expected savings from these decisions did not arise, it is high time that these decisions were withdrawn. I would have liked to ask the Minister: are there plans of this kind in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u230	Mr President! It is not very fruitful to remember the old, but when Mr Rinte was asked to clarify what the SDP's EUR 800 million index cuts would have done, we heard what they would not have been made of: no basic security benefits, not the central government shares of the municipalities. After that, the listener will wonder and ask what they would have been made of. You weren't bluffing the voters in the run-up to the election, were you? Then there's another question. The growth of inequality and the growth of income inequality are repeated here as a mantra, which is supposed to become reality by repeating enough. This isn't happening. This millennium has seen little change in income differentials.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u233	Mr President! I understand that Mr Zyskowicz does not consider the recollection of the old to be fruitful. When we talked earlier about which party has become the most expensive in this country, it is definitely a coalition, the finance minister's party in the early 1990s, when the economy collapsed, the finance minister's party in 2009, when around 8% of GDP collapsed. You are the party that is destroying the Finnish economy, and you are also destroying the poor, the poor's economy and the lives of the poor. Congressman Kaikonen stopped by briefly to roll over and then left. But he has said it out loud: because of government decisions, pensioners have to choose between bread and medicines. When the representative of Estonia spoke here about people not eating percentages:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u234	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki read quite a number of worm numbers to the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u242	Mr President! I understand that there is a great deal to be said here — of course, there are different views, but I do find it quite unreasonable to say that someone is destroying the Finnish economy. However, I do not think that this is the case. We have had different situations in the Finnish economy. But that is what I would like to say here, when it has been said that huge savings have been made for families with children, that unfortunately we have had to balance the state economy so that families with children have also had to take it, but if child benefit has been cut by less than one per cent, it is not a huge saving. The same applies to subjective day care: everyone has a right to subjective day care for 20 hours a week, and has not been completely removed. And if one or both of the parents are at home when the children are young, I think it is good that the government supports the idea of creating a relationship with those children and not immediately taking them to day care if we are at home. I also think that this is an ideological thought from the left in a certain way, that children should be taken away and immediately alienated from their parents and that would be the best education policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u243	Mr President! There has been some talk of taxation here, and I would now like to clarify the tax package of the Social Democrats. We are prepared to see a slight increase in the taxation of the two top three revenue deciles in order to generate more revenue, so that we do not have to make these unfair cuts. We have brought an extension of the tax base through this taxation of insurance portfolios, through taxation of the financial sector. They are an extension of the tax base. There are several hundreds of millions of opportunities to receive more tax revenue through these. We have been prepared to give up this forest gift tax because we believe it is directed towards large forest owners. We have been prepared to tighten the taxation of millions of inheritances, unlike the government that is ready to reduce it. We would like to take these measures on the same basis as this Economic Assessment Council has said to the government that the income side is not being used to achieve social justice. Our concern is that social inequalities are increasing and income inequalities are increasing, which means that Finns are not doing well in all respects. I hope that,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u244	President! In the last parliamentary term, taxation was tightened, and that was one of the reasons why Finland died for three years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u250	Mr President! Now again, Mr Ala-Nissilä is guilty of a mistake in logic. The sun does not rise because the rooster crows, but taxes have been raised and expenditure has also been cut because of the long recession in Europe since 2008. For example, Mr Suutari earlier and Mr Zyskowicz proved the kind of difficult places Finland had to go at that time, and it should not be underestimated. However, I do not agree with Mr Arhinmäki that it was also the fault of the coalition, that these global and European recessions have taken place, but I believe that this general understanding is a step in the better direction, because I have been disturbed for two and a half years in this Chamber by the debate that all the good that has been achieved is due to a particular government, and all the bad things that have happened during the period of some government are due to the wrong policy of that government. It must be understood that although the cause cannot always be rolled outside, there are such great forces of the global economy that they are still beyond the best government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u251	Mr President! I'm sure no one wants to dispute the right to tax. Taxation must be as broad and as low as possible. When Representative Forkukka
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u252	Mr President! My irony about whose fault it is the economic collapse of 2009 or the economic collapse of the early 1990s seems to be sinking. It is now understood how ridiculous it is to say that, now that this economic growth with the rest of the world has gone up, it is the government's fault, because if it is said so, then it is equally claimed that the economic collapses that have been caused by the global economy are the fault of the government at the time. However, Mr President, Mr Zyskowicz has wrongly argued here that income differentials are not increasing. The calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, both of them, show that the government's policy will increase income disparities. The Government's decision-making policy increases income disparities, and the main reasons are index cuts in basic security, housing allowance cuts — cuts in the most
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u253	Mr President! Indeed, when employment improves, the difference between those who do not have jobs or those who have jobs increases statistically. It is a statistical fact, it is worth noting. But if we want to manage public finances, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, then the only option is to get people to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u256	Mr President! Yes, the golden rule of propaganda is that when you repeat and repeat and repeat a message, it starts to sound like the truth, but the truth is, in fact, that the income gap has not actually grown. Last time they grew, it was in Prime Minister Lipponen's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u259	Mr President! Now a little debate is taking place with the Minister, but then we will talk about this structural deficit in the Financial Union, or rather about the government deficit in relation to GDP. Our age structure does not explain that it will weaken from this year to next year or that the positive development that has continued for three years will be substantially weaker next year than the VM predicts. It's the kiky. This has been said in the documents, because these tax compensations, which were forced to be given, and quite rightly, have been given, to compensate employees for cutting off half a third of the holiday money in public, forced employees to make three additional unpaid working days a year and transferred to their hands the social security contributions due to employers. It is compensated by these large tax concessions, and that is the concrete reason why:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u260	Chairman! Instead of arguing about whether income inequality has increased, it is more essential to draw attention to the fact that we have a growing number of people in Finland who are in poverty and basic security is not enough for them. Of course, every job that is created in this country is very welcome, and some people can get a job and thus rise out of poverty, but in poverty there is a large number of elderly people, pensioners, disabled people, disabled people, unable to improve their own livelihoods by getting a job. Therefore, when the government first cut the benefits for these people, now that it has had the opportunity to make tax cuts, they should have been directed at these people, in practice to the reduction of municipal tax, because they also pay municipal tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u261	Mr President! The opposition may be affected. In their protests, the Finns made a reference, among other things, to the suicide prevention programme, and thank you for taking it into account and taking it forward, for resources are being allocated to it. As far as low incomes are concerned, it was left or right that poverty is relative and there is always poverty. Even small cuts tighten the household of a poor and low - income person. But you have to live at home. That is what our old-age policy is all about today. On the other hand, nursing expenses are also high, they increase costs for the elderly, and then there comes this freedom of choice, the way in which the elderly chooses. THL noted that, through a reduction in pension income, the tightening of taxation affects the situation of people aged 65 in particular in a tightening way. The increase in the guarantee pension is a very good thing, but I would ask you, Minister, when will it be the turn of those smallest pensions to receive it, because it is now your age to work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u262	Mr President! Representative Juvonen, if the earnings-related pension is less than the guarantee pension, the person receives a guarantee pension. Consequently, the smallest pensions have been increased twice. There has been an increase in funding for family and family care, an increase in the minimum parental allowance and sickness allowance. All this in spite of the weak economic situation. And, of course, the situation of families with children is facilitated by 7,000 new low - income families being exempted from early childhood education fees. I believe that this is an important issue for families, and it would also be worth the opposition to be grateful and to raise and bring this message, for if that is for the benefit of the families, as well as the fact that 60,000 families have had a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the next few speeches the representative will move on to a working microphone. The Secretariat notes that not everything spoken belongs to those poor microphones, and it is likely that the representative himself will know and recognize if the voice is not correctly heard. If not, it will be noted here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u264	Mr President! In this debate, I find it most annoying that there are parliamentarians here who claim, contrary to expert knowledge and the feeling of the deep Finnish lines, that income differentials are not on the increase. Think of it: if two thirds of Finns are concerned that income inequality is increasing, what level of experience do they refer to?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u268	Mr President! The income gap is increasing, but it is extremely low, and this is a good thing. If you look back a little bit on history, you can see that this decade has seen little increase in income inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u280	Mr President! There has also been talk here of a possible divisional resource, and yes, we must recognise that, in our country, this allocation resource must then be used to improve these lower incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u283	Mr President! When we are talking about a guarantee pension, for example, we first raised the expectations high when the group leader of the centre, Mr Kaikkonen, demanded an increase in the guarantee pension of EUR 50. There's a pancake, there's 15 euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u286	Mr President! In the past, a Social Democratic Member of Parliament said that their alternative budget would have the numbers in a slightly different order. They would probably be there when Sitra had already been emptied twice and the Bank of Finland robbed a few times — they would be in a different order. Mr President! Now that we're dealing with this, The third draft budget of the Sipilä Government, so the situation is that Finland has been saved. Finland has been rescued from the situation that the red-green opposition drove in the last period. Finland is in good shape. It has called for very painful and very difficult decisions. It has not been pleasant to do these things, but they have saved Finland from the bankruptcy, from the guardianship of the IMF and the EU Commission, to which you were just talking about taking the country. President! However, a number of measures have been taken to achieve social justice, although they have had to be cut: the funding of family and family care has been improved; the student allowance will be increased; the guarantee pension has been increased; the poorest families will receive free day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, this window of time, which is available for this debate, is beginning to run out. I have also made contributions to the representatives of Halmeenpää, Multala, Viitanen and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli. And then there would be a reply from the Minister. If there is time, then after Minister Orpo there will be a question or two, but now there will be no more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u288	Mr President! When this debate on the budget and on the part of the government parties has repeatedly emerged from this debate that there has been a need to cut from there and here and that the opposition would only have been put forward to make up for these cuts, I would say that the Greens have made a total saving of almost EUR 260 million on inefficient emissions trading compensation and industrial energy tax returns, and the Group of Business Support should report on its work on Friday this week. How about, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, whether you are now capable of making reforms to put an end to the forms of harmful subsidies that are being paid out of the State bag for hundreds of millions of euros, which support and prolong the maintenance of the fossil economy but which: The State Economic Research Centre has found it ineffective in terms of competitiveness and has put these hundreds of millions of euros in the fight against poverty, for example, and the cancellation of cuts in education and training? This isn't a silly option.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u289	Mr President! If you ask me, I quite agree that business aid must also be viewed with ambition, and it is good that we have a business support team at the moment... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Deputy Member,the Secretary-General explains that you do not have a vote. Could you please go where there is a microphone — who recognizes — that works. [PaavoArhinmäki : All talk to the place, works well! — The speaker moves on to Wille Rydman’s microphone] But I would now like to address this issue of inequality. If two thirds of people think that income inequality is on the increase, could it be partly because people are saying things here day after day, how is this the case when, however, our statistics say that income inequality has vibrated in minimal terms? And these calculations, which have been commissioned, do not include dynamic effects. They're static calculations. Every decision should always be made to assess its impact on employment, and that is what this government is trying to do. According to expert estimates, an employment rate of up to 80% is required in order to maintain our current model of income transfers and services,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u290	Mr President! When I listened to that speech from Kurvise downtown, I had to dig out that I am now in a different place. After all, this weekend Kurvinen himself insisted that we should make fair improvements to basic security in times of growth. I think it was all right that Mr Kaikkonen just stopped by the Chamber, but it was a good thing that he stopped by, namely to clarify things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u298	When the city center was asked, a representative My corner's picking up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u299	Mr President! It is quite extraordinary that the centre which has been building a very strong basic security system in this country should not defend the basic security system that we have, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u302	All right, the minister's time is down, the representatives are given a little more time. Reply, Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u303	Mr President! The economy has started to grow, and the previous income tax reductions that have been made during this government term have contributed to the growth. That's a thank-you to the government. This increase in employment rates is vital for Finland, and in that respect the direction is right, but despite economic growth it must be said that the situation of the poorest citizens is extremely worrying. And although it does not seem to be admitted by the representatives of the assembly, the chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre has indeed been concerned about the situation in public. Unfortunately, some of the new government's actions will only accelerate this inequality. Perhaps the most flagrant cut planned by the government, which it has in fact already taken forward, is an active model that severely undermines unemployment security, in which the unemployed are punished for failure to seek employment. I would ask you, Mr Government, to use carrots to treat employment, not a stick that only makes it worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u304	The final contributions are definitely from Mr Gustafsson, Mr Kivelä, Mr Arhinmäki, then the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u305	Mr President! Finland can still be regarded as a country of small income disparities, thanks to the left and the centre of the embryo,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u310	Mr President! Here, some would like to remind you of how the income gap narrowed during the last parliamentary term. Well, that's a lot to do with it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u318	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Kulmun. The People's Front once built a welfare state — the Rural League, the SKDL, the SDP by working together — to ensure that we have basic security. Income differentials narrowed, poverty decreased in this country. This debate, which is taking place now, is struggling with the wonder that the centre of this Parliament has forgotten these roots, which together took care of the poorest people. It will come through in the press releases that are sent on weekends, in the speeches in these
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Representative to Arhinmäki: yes, this government policy, trust in Finnish consumers, export exports and investment in Finnish business has been able to secure and strengthen those embryo roots.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u324	And now for two minutes, Minister Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u325	Mr President! Yes, there is inequality in the country. Yes, there is poverty and underprivilegedness. The main reasons behind this are the long-standing poor economic situation that began in 2008, high unemployment, the resulting exclusion and social problems. These are the main explanatory factors. And that is why public spending has increased a lot: when our good social security system works and helps these people, our public finances have been in debt, and because of the low level of employment, tax revenues have been low. That is why this improvement in employment is all at the heart of it: so that we can afford to take care of people and so that the root cause of inequality — or one of the root causes — can be tackled, in other words unemployment. And this must be at the heart of government policy. As far as tax policy is concerned, it has become quite clear that we are thinking differently. In our opinion, a lower taxation of work and enterprise and a reasonable degree of progress will lead to economic growth, employment, a reduction in the tax wedge and so on and so on; that is a wise policy; you disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u330	The matter will be suspended due to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u331	The plenary session will continue. Now we are going to the list of speakers, and the maximum duration of the speeches in advance is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u332	Mr President! Finland is rising, the economy is growing and employment is improving throughout the country. In October, the number of unemployed persons was over 54,000 lower than one year earlier. The end of living in debt is also in sight. Basic security needs to be improved while at the same time renewing it to encourage and simplify it. Growth belongs to everyone, this is what we think of the downtown group. The Centre has ensured that, despite the tight economic situation, basic services have not been cut, and we have also been able to make improvements to basic security. That, too, is a fact. In good memory are the giant cuts made by the last government specifically for basic services. About EUR 7 billion was cut from basic municipal services, and it did affect very much ordinary people. The development of inequality has been going on for a long time, it is clear, and it must be stopped, but it has certainly taken place in a considerably longer period than two and a half years. Preventing inequality requires training, better employment and high quality and preventive services. Social and regional reform must be completed as a matter of urgency. After all, the reform is to ensure that every Finnish citizen has equal social and health care services. Even though the process of putting the Finnish economy in order has progressed, the debt-taking process has not yet been completed. Economic growth must continue to be supported in every way and positive developments must continue. The aim must be for at least 100,000 unemployed people to be employed in the next parliamentary term. We believe that it is possible for everyone to find work with adequate training and support. The low-skilled and part-time workers must also be involved in working life. The government has implemented many good reforms: a transport reform and a huge amount of unnecessary bureaucracy. Of course, reforms must continue, for example, adequate funding for the fairway must be secured. Continued debt would definitely be the way of destruction and totally unfair for our children and grandchildren. However, it seems to be an alternative to the SDP, for example, and the Left Alliance also wants to take on more debt. By contrast, the central line is strong employment and the economy, so that we can care for the weaker and ensure safe everyday, equal services and other conditions of life throughout Finland. When the SDP and the Greens were in the government, the economy contracted, unemployment got worse and reforms were not done. Now the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, reforms are progressing on many fronts. This development must be strengthened in every way. Unfortunately, the SDP and the Greens did not find much to do with that objective. We've done a lot of justice. The solidarity tax continued. The central government does not save on basic municipal services, as I said. People have an equal right to quality services throughout life. Despite Finland’s difficult economic situation, the guarantee pension has been increased twice during this parliamentary term. The funding of family and family care has been improved. There's gonna be a guardian raise for the student allowance. The lowest parental allowance and sickness allowance will be increased. The situation of families with children is facilitated by reductions in early childhood education fees: from the beginning of next year nearly 7,000 new low-income families will be exempted from early childhood education fees. Some 60,000 families have been able to enjoy a new job, and an ambitious target must also be set for the next parliamentary term, an ambitious target of at least 100,000 new jobs. The everyday services of families are developed and good practices are disseminated from one municipality to another, and more and more families have received help on time. As a result, the number of children placed outside the home and taken into care has also decreased. I very much welcome the report by the Section for Education and Science — and, of course, the report by the Committee on Finance as a whole. There were great efforts to develop basic education. Additional resources will be allocated, inter alia, to the development of teacher education, to the experiments and development of digital learning in comprehensive school. Funding for strengthening equality in comprehensive school and assisting schools in challenging areas will be increased by around EUR 25 million. This will be used for measures to promote equality in education and to improve the quality of special education in pre- and basic education and to reduce the number of teaching groups associated with these and to hire school assistants, for this good whole, which will total more than EUR 40 million next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u333	At this point, we will take a few speeches before we start the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u334	Mr President! When we talk about the budget, we also talk about values. The draft budget is a manifestation of values. When reading the Government's draft budget, you can draw conclusions on the values of the current government, which were also reflected in the mid-term debate last week. The government's decisions increase inequality. I am saddened by the arrogance shown by the government to the concerns of the opposition. After the interim question, I received a message from a citizen asking: "What bubble does the government live in when it claims that the whole of Finland is doing well? Well, I'm sure some are doing well and some are even better than ever. However, there is a growing number of us who are not doing well, and we feel that the government does not care." Mr President! Investing in children is the best future investment we can make, which is why savings on children are always bad choices. For example, the savings in early childhood education mean that children of the unemployed receive less early childhood education than others and in large groups of children who need much help and need support are not given the special attention they need. These savings can be costly in the future, including for society. The inequalities between young people and children are also increased by educational savings. The situation in vocational training is particularly worrying. I greatly wonder how deaf ears the government has for messages from vocational schools. According to the Amisbarometri, students feel that they receive too little education. According to the YLE survey, only 22 per cent of teachers believe that the reform will be able to meet the needs of future professional skills and working life, and less than 13 per cent believed that reform could better prevent exclusion and only 15 per cent of teachers believed that in future, educational institutions would be able to guarantee equal opportunities for further learning for all students in the profession. The objectives are good, but the savings in vocational education and training take away the opportunity to achieve them. The additional investment of EUR 30 million granted by the government for the next few years will not sufficiently remedy this situation. The choice of values is also that the decision of the government increases and deepens pensioner poverty. After last week's intermission, I also received the following message from a pensioner who wondered this way: "I don't think the government knows what poverty is in which low-income pensioners live. Don't they think the money's not good enough for food and medicine? I can no longer afford to buy antidiabetic drugs. Thank you to the government for that." Mr President! However, I would also like to bring a different and forward-looking perspective to this debate. In the Committee on the Future, we have already taken a few positions on policy coherence. Earlier this year, we have adopted the 2030 Agenda for Action. In its operational programme, the Government has also stressed that Agenda 2030 must be taken into account in all government measures. Unfortunately, in the government's draft budget, this link is very loose despite Mr Orpo's assurances. The report by the Committee on the Future of Europe on the Agenda 2030 action programme highlighted the importance of the welfare economy. This means, among other things, that, in addition to GDP, public finances should also be assessed and planned using welfare indicators. The answer of the Ministry of Finance to the committee was that there is no need for new indicators in addition to GDP and that it is not for the Ministry of Finance to measure well-being. According to the Ministry, the income and expenditure of the national economy and taxes can be calculated with sufficient accuracy by gross domestic product. Perhaps this limited perspective prevents the policy from being reformed in the direction of budget-reducing measures involving all ministries. Perhaps because of this attitude in decision-making, the economy and well-being go to their own tracks when they should be brought together, just as the 2030 Agenda emphasises. With the welfare economy and the use of existing welfare indicators, we could perhaps better prevent the problem in this budget as well. The government considers that it makes good individual decisions to reduce pensioner poverty and child poverty, but the overall impact is negative. The interaction or alternative costs of the proposals have not been assessed or calculated. This should finally change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u335	Mr President! Throughout the autumn, we have noted with satisfaction that economic growth has risen by good 3% from the previous year's level, employment has risen to 70, and one important indicator is export growth. Competitiveness has improved and unit labour costs, which are the central objective of the government, have fallen even below Sweden, according to statistics. We have therefore restored the climate of trust that has been lost to the actors of the Finnish economy. Measures to fold debt have now been put in place with a savings package of EUR 4 billion, and it has to be said that adjustment decisions have not always been a treat. Every citizen has participated in economic activity. The taxation of high incomes has been tightened by extending the solidarity tax and by tightening the progress made in capital taxation. We want to emphasise the line of work, which is why the tax burden on labour has been reduced by 1.3 billion in order to achieve employment and economic growth, with a focus on low-income wage earners. Only an increase in wage and salary contributions at income levels without any income tax will increase the tax burden on low incomes. When there is talk of a divisional thief, it is quite right that it should be allocated to the poor and poor groups of people in our country. Negative real interest rates and good access to finance support investment, but what is the future? Developments on a large map of world politics will inevitably influence and bring dark clouds to the domestic economy and predictability. We are also affected by the escalation of relations between the USA and China, North Korea, the influx of refugees in Africa and the increased threat of terrorism. Employment growth is slow but accelerating. The number of unemployed job seekers falls in all groups and regions. Work prevents exclusion and has complex positive effects on human well-being. The strengthening of incentives for entrepreneurship and work has proved to be an effective government line, which will continue, as well as regular interviews with the unemployed, the use of unemployment benefit to start a business, and short-term studies and the permanent conversion of higher education. Here's a few. Mr President! The budget puts particular emphasis on security. EUR 50 million will be added to improve defence capabilities. The fight against terrorism will be increased by EUR 12 million and the improvement of internal security by around EUR 8 million. 7 million will be added to international crisis management. Special support will be given to the business sector: it will launch 19 projects to promote road safety and the operating conditions of the business community with an amount of EUR 11.8 million. The old car scrapping premium is now being implemented for a new time in order to encourage the renewal of the car fleet. Almost EUR 2 million will be invested in advice to improve farm profitability. A further EUR 400000 will now be invested in interest subsidies, which will be used to support the export of Finnish companies to public sector projects in developing countries. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by 70 million. Discounts are targeted at people on low and middle incomes. The biggest rebates apply to families with multiple children. 2 million will be invested in developing the quality of basic education and early childhood education. The student grant will be accompanied by an increase of EUR 75, and guarantee pensions will be increased by EUR 15 in addition to the previous increase. The single parent increase in child benefit will also rise by a few euros per month. This budget and all the work of this government has been determined to reduce government debt significantly in order to save the welfare society. After all, we owe some EUR 107 billion, which is almost EUR 20000 per capita. Recent economic developments would allow indebtedness for the coming year to fall even below the budget of EUR 3 billion. Mr President! So the times are still challenging, but we blues in one government may have built Finland's common future and assumed responsibility for making Finland rise again after the lost decades of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u336	Mr President! I support the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Mere. We discussed the development of the European Economic and Monetary Union and the Banking Union in the context of the discussion of the budget or in the Committee on Finance. Experts raised extremely serious problems. Several experts considered that the EMU and the euro would only be saved by a centralised model of solidarity, that is, a federal state or by a very strict market discipline in all Member States. They didn't make the third choice. The Sipilä Government rejects solidarity and collective deposit protection — right. The Federation would be a destructive and expensive model for Finland. The government is pushing for a model of market discipline. However, the researchers considered that this was not feasible in practice. The euro countries in a difficult situation are not capable of making or even willing to carry out such drastic reforms, cuts in public spending and tightening taxes as to their economy for decades to come to an end. Their competitiveness and productivity are weak and debt liability is heavy. Hard economic discipline would bring the people to the streets, create constant political crises and overthrow governments. Many banks in Italy are standing thanks to the huge purchases of junk loans by the European Central Bank and with the support of the State. The purchase programme, which keeps interest rates unhealthyly low, will soon have to stop. In this case, interest rates will gradually rise to a healthy level. Now they're at their lowest level in 5,000 years. This feeds on continued indebtedness, and it is on the hands of the taxpayers of Finland and some other countries. As interest rates rise to the freely defined level of the market, the interest expenditure on Finland’s government debt of over EUR 100 billion will gradually increase by billions. The local government sector has a debt of 20 billion, and the debt of households has almost doubled in 15 years, and growth continues. A significant rise in interest rates is a poison to the economy and to employment and households. The claims related to the ECB’s Target 2 system of the Bank of Finland amount to more than EUR 80 billion. Long-term claims on euro area banking institutions related to monetary policy operations amount to more than EUR 10 billion. The central government debt securities purchase programme has grown to around EUR 25 billion. The debt securities purchase programme of multinational institutions has grown to around EUR 3 billion per year and the non-financial corporations sector to over EUR 4 billion. In addition, the Finnish State has risks for the Greek EFSF and ESM of nearly EUR 20 billion. Finland's risks are therefore enormous and, unfortunately, increasing. Mr President! The basic problem of EMU is different Member States and asymmetric cycles. Continued differentiation is reflected in the country's debt. Dr. Tuomas Malinen of the University of Helsinki said to the Committee on Finance: "As the next recession strikes, the debt crisis will return to the euro area worse than ever." And further: "Finland must make concrete contingency plans for the break-up of the euro area in its current form." He said that no monetary union such as EMU has been of longevity. The President of France, Emmanuel Macro, and the President of the German Social Democrats, and perhaps the future Foreign Minister, Martin Schulz, are driving the European Federation. The objective of the EU Commission is in the same direction. They understand that the only real option is to save. Emu is a centralized and deep solidarity-based federal model. Mr Schulz said that those Member States that did not agree to this would automatically be regarded as resignations. The Finnish Government is pursuing a line that has no future. Mr President! Paavo Lipponen and Sauli Niinistö made a heavy mistake when she ran into Finland's EMU 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u337	Mr President! Our common goal must be Finland, where it is good for people to live, study, work and raise children, and where the burden of debt in euros, social indicators, or even in terms of climate emissions or the consumption of natural values, is not left on the shoulders of future Finns. With this in mind, it is impossible to stand behind all the sections of the government budget proposal. That is why we Greens made a budget for the future in which resources would be directed to where they are most needed, with no more debt than government. Mr President! It is up to us to act responsibly in the interests of society, the environment and the people, to make decisions with which everyone could reasonably live. This has not been done in all respects by the government. The government's proposal unquestionably forces the low incomes to bear a greater burden on the economy's savings than the high-paid and high-capital incomes. The fact is that although the increase in income differentials in euro amounts cannot be said to be drastic, it is alarming that the government does not see a change of direction as relevant. Talking only about the size or small size of income differentials ignores the unequal distribution of wealth and health and well-being differences. They're too big. Although Finland’s economy is improving, many people do not see a turn for the better in everyday life. We must keep everyone involved and thus appreciate the work with which the Finnish welfare society has been built through our decisions. Decisions are needed to improve the lives of everyone tomorrow, not just those who are already doing well and strong. Mr President! The government's cutbacks in education are too much. Together with separate reforms of the education system, without an overall plan and impact assessments, they threaten to undermine equality, regional accessibility and quality in education. Education is the key to Finland’s success, the guarantee of our future. But even in universities, local education is disappearing as a result of the cuts. The best teachers in the world are not graduating from a letter class or just from remote assignments. Not all of our young people will get a good chance of survival if the upper secondary education network, the provision of education and the quality of teaching are reduced further. In turn, all children should be allowed to participate in early childhood education that supports growth and development. This is not allowed to happen by the government. The Greens have called for ambitious climate action and a reduction in emissions. We would rather cut emissions and polluting business subsidies than the quality and availability of education. Climate change must be combated effectively now if we are to stop global warming at a level below 2°C, otherwise this will not happen. You don't want to bludgeon against it. Slowing down or putting your own short-term interests before your own is not the way to go. "In order to determine what country to start climate action, Finlandcan take action. For fossils, a ban quickly, carbon sinks up, backs up, and a circular economy road map to action quickly. It shouldn't be hard for a agile country." This is how Director Mari Pantsar from Sitra was impaled in his tweet yesterday. The Greens are in line with the Finnish Independence Fund Sitra. Demand in the fight against climate change is sufficient. This would be even more evident in the budget and objectives. Mr President! Development cooperation and nature conservation also need better resources than the government proposes. We need to make a better future for both Finland and the world. Mr President! I support Mr Yanar's motion of censure against the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u338	Mr President! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Uotila. It has to be said that fiscal policy in this government proposal is not what should be right now. The government is trying to describe the cutting of central government debt as if it were household debt. It must be understood that when we talk about household debt and what we leave in debt to children, we forget the fact that we go to things as simple as what our sewers and water supply owes. It is by this government that we are now leaving those infras and other related debts to our children. We do not want to acknowledge the fact that only with sovereign debt and indecent debt can we leave our children a bad legacy. There should be courage to see what the real burden of debt is for our children. If the infrastructure is allowed to be scrapped, who will be responsible? It's our baby. As a detail: I would have liked the government to have kept to the teaching even more vigorously. This scrapping of education, which this government has done during its own period, is somehow incomprehensible. Finland can only succeed with a high level of expertise. But even more we would have needed measures to prevent exclusion in this proposal. We need all Finns to build well-being in Finland, and then it also means people who are becoming marginalised. We need more investment in the redevelopment of apprenticeships. We need instruments and funding to create paths for people who will never be included in higher education. We need instruments, because we could even reduce the support for young detectives if we were already caught up in young people. For early childhood education, we need even more contributions so that every young child can be involved in learning new things and getting the basic conditions for taking up education. We who are in learning difficulties, dyslexic people, need support already there in the first stages of childhood. We need money to make it possible for people close to us to provide the services that enable it all, and so that we do not get out of the way. Preventing exclusion means giving priority to resources, and we need money and money for it, resources for people who can help us, so that I do not have to be here as a politician to speak for us. We really need to create paths for us to be involved in society and not to be sidelined. Mr President! A little space I would also have liked — it is good that the government created the Growth Fund III, but it is a fund of funds. We need a fresh look at things. Government responsibilities have continued to grow. This has, of course, meant that the potential of our export industry, especially in the shipbuilding industry, has increased and should be commended. The government needs to take a risk when it's time to take a risk. I don't blame this government for that. It has continued the line of previous governments, and that is the only right line: society must support the possible growth of industry and employment. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the government's attitude is: Fortunately, Customs got its part in Parliament so that we can
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u339	At this point, I will not open up any wider debate, but I will give Mr Multala the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u340	Mr President! We must briefly address Mr Myllykoski's argument that this government has somehow managed to break down the equality of education. This certainly cannot be the case. First of all, at the moment there is no surgery at all on primary schools. The changes in the curriculum are only about to come into force, and only after the changes are fully effective will they be able to say how they will work. Instead, this government is investing in reducing early childhood education fees, which are likely to bring children who benefit most from free early childhood education. In addition, this budget for the next year will focus in particular on equality in education and training by increasing the amount of equality money, and in addition to that, the Committee on Budgets, in its own deliberations, has even increased the amount of equality money compared to the base.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u341	One last reply to Mr Mikkonen, followed by a reply to Mrs Myllykoski, followed by a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u342	Mr President! It is great that the government is now making small additional contributions to education, but in the name of the truth it has to be said that during this term of government there has been a really drastic cut of half a billion. The fact that some 10 million are now being put there is a fine thing in itself, but unfortunately it does not replace and correct the serious destabilising that has been done. That is why, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, all parties promised that education would no longer be affected, because the mistakes that were made during the last period were understood. Nevertheless, this government has indeed cut by half a billion people out of education. I am pleased with this reduction in early childhood education fees, it is a fine decision, but unfortunately the reduction in subjective day care rights means that now that municipalities have withdrawn them across Finland, inequality among children
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u343	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Mikkonen said: by this government, regional and municipal inequalities are possible precisely because some municipalities have assumed responsibility and brought money to ensure that the subjective day care facility is real. Of course, it is premature to assess how the reform of the second level of education is coming about, but all the signs and opinions of experts are such that if we cannot provide support and real education and enable people to enter the labour market on that side too, so that there is sufficient resources in that local education, then it will never be possible to implement it through the education agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u344	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u345	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Östman. In their own budget option, the Christian Democrats have seen an important contribution to employment, support for entrepreneurship, facilitate the situation of families with children and pensioners and strengthen internal security. The government budget, of course, also invests in these policy sectors on many points, but due to previous major cuts, we need to talk mainly about locations, for example in the area of education policy. In addition, there is a very good chance that economic growth and its fruits will be eaten very quickly by bad policies. It is just recently that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been gathered to reflect on the reform of the alcohol law, and if we make a bad alcohol law, then it will lead to a dramatic increase in substance abuse and expenditure and, of course, the worst of all, to human tragedies. In this way, however, we have wasted very quickly what room economic growth might bring to that budget. Also, a poorly implemented social welfare reform can lead to very unpredictable additional costs rather than a life savings career. At the moment, social and health services are being outsourced at the municipal level in panic, because we are trying to ensure that they remain in their own municipality of residence, and at the same time we are selling those social and social property that is feared to fall into the hands of the province if it is not necessary. Health giants, for their part, set up service housing units, which then start selling their own services to municipalities, and municipal investment reforms are frozen because the government of the country has imposed an investment ban. Looking at this roulette from the outside, one can only say that you can make municipal decision-makers in this government roulette. There is a very drastic distribution of health and social services on the market, the final cost of which for taxpayers cannot be anticipated. That is why, for example, this lack of confidence in the Christian Democrats is involved in this social reform, because we believe that it is such a key element: if we fucked up it, then we will not be able to gain any confidence from the citizens, none of us in this house, which we are doing things this season, because that is what the nation's common will before the elections was, that we should have good and effective social reform. Also, if employment policies are managed solely on market terms, then many long-term unemployed, mental health workers or those who are able to work part-time will not even get a bite out of these fruits of economic growth. In fact, in their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have allocated very significant funds to dismantle these index cuts and index freezes in the case of basic benefits, because they are the main factor at the moment, which is why we do not have some of the citizens to enjoy this economic growth, but, on the contrary, are relatively even behind when the economy is growing. Mr President! Raising the guarantee pension is a good thing. In the alternative of the Christian Democrats, we would be investing even more in it, because so many older people are struggling with their livelihoods. Similarly, additional resources for dealing with unemployment, in particular by increasing wage subsidies and start-up funding for start-ups, are measures that come back in the form of tax revenue. The Christian Democrats have wondered about the family policy line of the Sipilä government, because the family minister is sitting in the government, but it seems that the situation of the families has remained rather childlike. The cuts in day care, afternoon activities and education are those that sting, but above all they create an atmosphere that is anything but child-friendly. Around the Fourth of July, we have been wondering how we are still on the decline in birth rates and we are indeed on the verge of years of hunger. At that time, at that time, Finland’s population was less than 2 million, and now we are under the threshold of that 50,000 children born. Child-friendly society is the best remedy for increasing the birth rate, and Christian Democrats have long had their own toddler bonus model that we would like to offer as a family leave model. We've also been pushing the government. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u346	Mr President! The outlook for the economy has improved considerably during 2017, and the economy has reached a rapid growth phase after a long period of weakness. GDP is reaching the 2008 level. Employment is improving, and it may well be that the government's employment target of 72% is being achieved, although the current rate of growth of the number of people employed is not quite sufficient. The tax on earned income has been reduced and is reflected in Finland's investment in 18 OECD countries. In the taxation of middle income, Finland is now, according to a report by the Finnish Taxpayer, the seventh highest tax payer, whereas last year Finland was the fifth. In this comparison, it is honorable to have a worse investment than before. Tax reductions together with wage increases mean a substantial increase in net income for many employees. However, central government debt continues to grow, albeit at a much slower pace than in the first half of the 2010s. The situation is contradictory when, despite the good economic performance, there is still a debt recovery in the event of a budget deficit. The structural deficit in our economy seems to continue in the next decade too, unless decisive corrective measures are taken urgently. Mr President! The coolness of the growing season and the excessive wetness of the harvest season caused the crop to fail to harvest from about 100,000 hectares. In addition, harvesting and drying costs were clearly higher than average. As a first step, the Government has decided on a further refund of the energy tax on fuel oil. Other measures are needed. However, the real problem is the poor profitability of agriculture. It is time to have a broad social debate on the possibilities for improving its long-term perspective. Now is the opportune time for the planning of the new EU fund period beginning in 2021. In order to prepare the debate, it would be useful to set up an expert group with a short deadline, for example until the end of April 2018. Mr President! The promotion of tourism to Finland is becoming a relatively significant increase in appropriations. Now that good EUR 10 million has been spent annually for this purpose, the figure for next year is good EUR 18 million. The increase of about 80% is huge. However, we are still well behind the other Nordic countries. Additional funding is intended to focus on tourism marketing, the development of tourism provision throughout the year, and the improvement of the digital skills of tourism companies. Joint Nordic marketing is also planned, which should be implemented as a matter of urgency. Tourism plays an important role in the economy and in employment. It is economically comparable to exports. There is a great deal of growth potential that can be exploited. Currently, the shortage of skilled workers in the tourism sector is a significant factor in limiting growth. This needs to be corrected, inter alia, through training and the facilitation of labour mobility. Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to some of Parliament's budget increases. To be commended is the decision of the Section for Economic and Monetary Affairs of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to direct the continuation of the Marine Archipelago growth programme of EUR 400000 to promote tourism in coastal regions and the archipelago. A special mention also deserves to be made of the fact that an initial allocation of EUR 100000 was directed to the TE Offices to set up a joint national unit for positive structural change. Hopefully, the first additional budget for next year will provide more money for this purpose. The aim is to provide efficient and expert customer guidance for jobs and education across regional borders. In particular, Varsinais-Suomi benefits from this as a strong growth region with a high need for additional labour. Mr President! Agricultural advisory organisations will receive almost EUR 2 million more State aid. This is the same increase that Parliament made a year ago in the 2017 budget, but it had not moved to the 2018 budget proposal at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u347	Mr President! We are having a budget feedback debate in the midst of conflicting signals. The positive thing is that the economy is growing and employment is finally improving. Export markets are growing. Companies are getting more and more new orders, and exports are pulling. Both companies and households have strong faith in the future. Households preparing for Christmas now have the courage to spend. Many entrepreneurs, factors, including the decisions of the current and previous government, have created the basis for the rise. The reduction of corporation tax, the competitiveness agreement or the abolition of the norm, such as the liberalisation of the opening hours of shops, are now producing well-being for Finland as a whole. On the other hand, Mr President, the major challenges facing the Finnish economy will remain. Despite 3% economic growth, the central government deficit remains several billions. Secondly, despite strong economic growth, the improvement in employment rates has been painfully slow. The reasons for this are, above all, structural. Current rigid structures in both the labour market and social security maintain high unemployment and slow down the growth of the Finnish economy. In particular, Finns who are excluded from the labour market pay an expensive fee for this. Mr President! The economic policy line agreed by the Government in the spring debate and the budget based on it for next year are based on recognition of the contradiction of this economic situation. It includes elements such as a reduction in the taxation of employees, which supports current growth. Nevertheless, the main focus of economic policy is on improving the conditions for longer-term economic growth. It contains two essential elements: the continuation of consistent economic discipline and a bold reform policy. In other words, the budgetary stances agreed in the Government Programme and the savings of EUR 4 billion will be maintained at the same time as, among other things, the opportunities for families with children to combine work and family life will be improved by a drastic reduction in early childhood education fees. In addition, the conditions for the employment of the unemployed will be improved by making it possible to become an entrepreneur and to study short-term with unemployment benefit. In addition, the government's plans include a broad public support for the reform of family leave, particularly in order to improve the labour market position of women. All these are small steps in the direction of improving employment and thus the capacity of the national economy. Yet, Mr President, more could be done. Obstacles to employment could be further overcome, inter alia, by increasing local reconciliation. There would also be a lot of work to be done to break the conditions for entrepreneurship and the standards preventing employment. I also hope that the government will focus on them during the rest of its term. Mr President! At the end of the speech, two very special compliments. The first goes to the government for the money allocated in the supplementary budget for next year to launch the Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway project. The decision will create work and livelihood in Central Finland in the coming years. The second thanks go to the Committee on Finance for the additional resources allocated to sport. Although the amount is reasonably small, only EUR 965000, it will facilitate the position of many professional athletes in this country in the coming year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u348	Mr President! The SDP has prepared its own alternative budget very carefully and in a solution-oriented way, and I was thinking here of telling you a little bit about the things we have not talked about so much today, namely how cake is grown and not just distributed. We have called for justice, the importance of involving everyone and the reduction of growing inequalities from the perspective of the unity of the nation. As the Prime Minister has already said in his speech, so great a difference in income also slows down economic growth, and that is certainly true. This alternative budget of ours is based on very sustainable rocks, responsible management of the economy as far as public finances are concerned, and we have long had a first line of work on two issues: preventing exclusion and ensuring that it is the best guarantee, namely raising the employment rate, in order to ensure the financing of public finances. You will all remember well that an increase in the employment rate of 1% will bring EUR 800 million in good public finances. We're in the middle of a job here. We have presented an exceptionally large number of issues relating to growth and the growth of cake, and in this respect we need this kind of knowledge-based, export-driven growth. We need an inspiring atmosphere to invest specifically in Finland. We need support for SMEs and self-employed people, the internationalisation of these companies, and that longer-term growth is based on creating the conditions by providing additional funding, above all, for research and product development, which has now been cut and drastically cut, by improving skills, education and education, which has also been drastically cut. Both the two main sources — longer-term, sustainable growth — have been cut and, in this respect, these investments in the future need to be strengthened. This is what we have highlighted in our alternative budget. But we also need a reform of the industrial structure, a renewal of working life and greater competitiveness in the future, and we believe that these new sources of expansion of exports are a circular and sharing economy. Finland is in a very good position on its own road map, and I hope that during Finland's EU Presidency, the circular and sharing economy will be one of Finland's key projects. Another big thing is to raise the value of services, in general the services sector, especially tourism, which is now at a good rate of growth. We must continue to support, build infraa, cooperate with the state, municipalities and companies to create service hubs also from the point of view of tourism. And the third source of new growth is the development of the Arctic. A very weak and thin one has overtaken this issue also in the context of next year's state budget. We would have expected stronger activity. Our concern is that, although exports are now leading, the share of exports of high-tech value added is still very low. We need to increase value added and get new sources of exports so that they are environmentally and climate-friendly, such as investing in environmental technology, energy efficiency, partly including exports of services. We have set out a number of objectives in this regard. Growth belongs to everyone, it also belongs to all provinces. We have proposed that a positive structural change be achieved in every province and that each province should build its own growth and economic policy objectives for its own strengths. We have earmarked 7.5 million for this in our own alternative budget through partnership agreements. President! Finally: Basically, our main asset is man, his ability, his ability, his ability to cope, and his concern to keep everyone involved. Finland must be a culture and knowledge society. Above all, we must also invest in the lifelong learning of people in work, in the rotation of work and learning, and this requires a great deal of new measures, both for businesses and for the financing of society. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u349	Mr President! During its term, the government has adjusted the economy by cutting everyone on the lowest incomes. Benefits paid by Kela, such as basic daily allowance, guarantee pension and disability benefits, have been frozen so that they do not increase as costs increase. Last year, there were cuts in benefits. The same has been done with regard to student allowance. The students are the biggest losers of this reign. Next year, housing subsidies will also be cut. It's great that jobs have increased. Work is needed; it is a sustainable way out of poverty. But we have a lot of people for whom work is not an option. Many pensioners, disabled, incapacitated and ill have fallen into poverty when the government cuts basic security, medical and sickness benefits and now even housing aid. Part of poverty is so deep that basic security can no longer survive. Therefore, the number of people receiving long-term income support will increase. Cutting from the poorest is a choice of values. The Greens felt that the tax cuts made by the government for next year should have been targeted differently: the poorest by cancelling the index freezes and previous cuts. Mr President! The inequality of society is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Research shows that low levels of education and pay are linked to lower levels of health and well-being. In many ways, too, it is inherited. Children with low incomes are more likely to be deprived and children with lower education are more likely to be less educated. Children of unemployed parents have a higher chance of becoming unemployed. These differences can be offset by investing in education and training. However, Sipilä’s government has made major cuts in education at all levels: early childhood education, comprehensive school, amix, polytechnics and universities. The foundation of Finnish education has been seriously undermined, and the welcome specific efforts that the government has now presented are not enough to correct it. They do not replace major cuts that are still in force. Quality early childhood education and basic education are the most effective means of reducing the social exclusion of young people. We need enough adults in schools and support for every child and young person. The Greens thank the government for reducing early childhood education fees. At the same time, however, the government has restricted day care rights and increased group sizes. Smart municipalities with good finances have cancelled government cuts. It is good, but it increases the regional inequalities in education. Children’s future provisions depend on the municipality in which they live. In order to guarantee a high-quality learning path for every child in Finland, the subjective right to day care must be restored and group sizes reduced nationally. For many young people, transition from primary to secondary school is a risk. Individual support should be provided for this section in order to ensure smooth transition. A mere starting point for secondary education is not enough, as many young people who have not received support fall from their studies along the way. There are economic reasons behind every third person who has dropped out of their studies. Comprehensive school alone is not able to cope with the current labour market and lack of education increases the risk of exclusion. The next objective must be genuinely free of charge, and the first steps are needed immediately. Mr President! Climate change is moving faster than we thought. Responding to the climate crisis requires faster and wider action than the government has been able to do. The government is threatening to reduce the carbon sink of forests in the bioeconomy. A slight increase in felling volumes can be sustained, but wood should be used primarily for long-term products, thus preserving carbon stocks. At the same time, forest biodiversity must be ensured. We need significant investments in nature conservation, which is lacking in the government's proposal. The drastic logging increases proposed by the government into bioenergy will eliminate emissions reductions in all other sectors. At this rate, Finland will not reduce emissions at all by 2030. Energy should be more invested in the sun, wind, smart electricity grid and energy efficiency. The most important measures for next year's budget are to accelerate small-scale energy production, to create a renewable energy incentive system through a tendering model and to launch the phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies. All these instruments support the reform of the economy
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u350	Mr President! We have a year of growth behind us. However, one or even a few years of good growth will not eliminate the fact that the structural problems of our economy remain unresolved in many respects. The ageing population and the declining workforce together represent a serious challenge for the future financing of our welfare services. We still urgently need structural changes, such as family leave reform and the promotion of local reconciliation. The rising season must be used wisely. Now, if ever, is the opportune time to launch these structural reforms quickly in order to increase employment rates and ensure continued growth. I don't want my gloves to fall off. We need to take advantage of this turn. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast, Finland's gross domestic product will grow by around 2 per cent in 2018, and economic growth has been further strengthened from the September estimate. With government measures, employment has improved and the number of unemployed has finally been reduced. Employment has grown close to 70% and the number of long-term unemployed has turned towards a decline. However, we still have a long way to go to the level at which we can secure the financing of our society's services and transfers. Before we have a clear path towards increasing employment by close to 80%, we must pay attention to the impact of each decision on employment. Mr President! The state budget proposal has made a number of very important contributions to promoting equality in education. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by EUR 70 million. Discounts are targeted at low and middle incomes, and the sibling discount of another child is increased to 50 per cent. As many as 6,700 families will be included in free early childhood education. In addition, the number of university-educated kindergarten teachers will be increased and EUR 5 million allocated to it for 2018. EUR 25 million will be added to the funding for equality in comprehensive school and a total of EUR 40.2 million will be used for this purpose. Following the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Budgets has added EUR 2 million to this end. This money is intended to intervene in precisely those regions and schools and to help those who are in a more difficult position. The budget for school club activities was also increased by 3 million in the Committee on Finance, which is very important for the morning and afternoon activities of schools. As far as the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the increase in the income of athletes proposed by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Finance. The amount of grants for athletes was increased by EUR 500000, which not only allows the smallest grant for young people to be increased to EUR 6000 but also allows more athletes access to the grants. This money is the only income available to many athletes for basic income. In addition, EUR 300000 was added to support services for sports academies and EUR 165000 to the Foundation for the Promotion of the Professionals of Athletes. They are a small but impressive addition to enabling the dual career of athletes, i.e. studying and combining sports. Mr President! As a second aspect, I would like to raise the issue of investments in the environment. Some of the measures are aimed at achieving medium-term climate policy objectives, i.e. targets aimed at reducing emissions by 2030. The purchase of electric cars will be supported and the conversion of internal combustion cars into gas and ethanol will be supported. Nature conservation will be promoted by investing additional money in the implementation of Metso's programme. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment’s administrative sector invests in nature tourism and, among other things, in putting the routes of national parks in order. Mr President! Today's government has the courage to reform. We all share in this Chamber the concern that the current social and health care system puts people in an unequal position. The current government has taken the bull out of the horns, and the welfare reform will be brought to the finish during this period, and the heart of this reform is the patient. I wish we had even more courage to carry out more ambitious reforms. In particular, I would draw attention to the reform of family leave which is currently under preparation. Mr President! There's still work to be done. This budget for the following year
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u351	Mr President! The outlook for Finland has improved considerably this year and the economy has reached a rapid growth phase after a very long period of weakness. Statistics since the adoption of the draft budget show that economic growth will continue to grow. Gross domestic product grew by 3 per cent in the third quarter of 2017 compared with the corresponding period of last year. However, economic growth does not provide any grounds for increasing public expenditure; on the contrary, the balancing of public finances must continue. Employment is improving all the time, although some feel it is too slow. According to the Employment Survey of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there were 272,500 unemployed job seekers in the Employment and Economic Development Activities at the end of October, which is 56,400 fewer than one year earlier. The employment rate has risen to 70 per cent, having been 68.4 per cent in October last year. The measures to improve employment agreed in the Government Programme are beginning to bite, and there is no doubt about that. In order to improve the functioning of the labour market, the so-called active model must be introduced and the use of unemployment benefit should be made possible for start-ups and short-term studies. It is particularly important to invest in facilitating youth unemployment, as it has not yet achieved sufficient results. This will also address the problems of young people at risk of exclusion considerably earlier than at present, which will also increase public safety. At the same time, we must also, of course, focus on reducing structural unemployment, because structural unemployment means that unemployment will remain high despite economic growth. Measures should be targeted at those population groups and regions with low employment rates. There would certainly be a lot of learning about employment activities in Åland. It has been estimated from the coming years that the rate of indebtedness will continue to slow down and that debt relative to GDP will fall. The Minister of Finance estimates that the indebtedness of public finances will end by the end of the parliamentary term in accordance with the objectives of the Government Programme. This has been the main objective of this regime. Unfortunately, despite the end of indebtedness, both local government and central government finances remain in deficit. I welcome the fact that the Committee on Budgets has increased the budget by more than EUR 40 million. Most of the funding is devoted to improving transport routes and supporting education, education, culture and sport. Funding will also be allocated to preventing exclusion, internal security, promoting exports and improving the profitability of agriculture. Mr President! It has been interesting to read the shadow budgets of the opposition parties. That's where the taxpayers get sweaty. The Demars would increase taxes on citizens by more than EUR 900 million and the Greens would increase taxes and other charges by EUR 1.4 billion in tax increases and other costs. This is not the way to go, even though the state always thanks the happy taxpayer. In Finland, the tax and benefit system effectively equalises income, according to OECD statistics even the third best. The reverse of more heavy labour and business taxation, which would increase social security, is that business activity and employment development in the country can easily be reversed when economic incentives change in the opposite direction. This has not been realistically taken into account, but in its shadow budget, the opposition hopes that the income side of the state will not suffer from their tax or social solutions that undermine the incentives for employment and entrepreneurship, which offset income inequalities. It is, of course, easy in theory to reduce income differentials when, in theory alone, hundreds of millions and billions of euros are created from the black economy, tax evaders, sugar tax, household deductions, the balance sheets and taxes of the Bank of Finland and Sitra, which kill the lives of the countryside. Why didn't you do all these miracle drugs during the last parliamentary term? In your time, unemployment increased and there was a terrible debt before the current government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u352	Mr President! This week is a rather heavy week for the long-term unemployed, deprived people in bread queues. When the Finnish Parliament Group broke up and the Blue Future was born, many have wondered what changed. Today I can tell you what changed — at least a few things. In the context of the previous two budgets, two very important things were added to the budget. The first was an appropriation of EUR 1 million for associations that help people in line for bread. Through the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, this activity was made to operate in such a way that this year more than 80 associations were supported by this special item and are able to carry out and improve this work. Among other things, cold equipment was acquired to enable various canned products to be distributed without breaking the cold chain. Now this article has been completely removed from here because the Blue Future did not think it was important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u355	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In Finland, every citizen's right to education is considered to be a key means of ensuring that everyone acquires adequate knowledge and skills to participate in society and to know-how that enables him to earn a living by working or trying. As Finland turned 50 in 1967, the pilot primary schools began operating in different parts of Finland. However, basic education free of charge and comprehensive school were not self-evident. At the beginning of the 1960s, there was still a debate as to whether it was reasonable to replace a parallel high school and a primary school system with student choices, tuition fees and free-league places with comprehensive school. In retrospect, the basic school that was then called a costly and equitable school system is the foundation that raised Finland into a modern and prosperous society. From those times forward, it is now known that early childhood education is the most effective education and participation in early childhood education is clearly reflected in the learning outcomes of 15-year-olds. Ages of children under the age of 5 are key periods of sensitivity to language learning and social interaction. The importance of the child’s early years is essential for learning both in basic education and in later stages of education. Thus early childhood education has an impact on the whole life cycle of a person. A long journey has been made to understand the importance of early childhood education. The children’s day care law of 73 C.E. was based on the right of parents to have their children in day care for a working day. In 2015, the law on early childhood education, which replaced the Day Care Act, raised the child’s right to quality early childhood education as a starting point. It is not only about equal treatment for families, but above all about the right of every child to an early education that gives equal opportunities for the way to school and to succeed in later life. Mr President! Unfortunately, social inequality starts early. Studies also show that disadvantaged people, such as unemployment and low levels of education, are passed on from one generation to the next. Therefore, restricting the right to early childhood education to the children of unemployed families is unambiguously wrong and should be withdrawn immediately. About 50 years ago Finnish decision-makers now gave 100-year-old Finland a gift that in its own time was a great and expensive reform. However, comprehensive school has shown that reforms in education will be visible for decades to come. They are investments that have paid themselves back many times over. We 100-year-old Finnish decision-makers must have the same courage to give a gift to 150-year-old Finland. Universal, free basic services such as early childhood education are the best way to reach all children. They promote equality and the construction of Finland into a child-friendly and family-friendly country. Right now, as the economy grows, it is the right time to take good decisions from the children’s point of view. Growth belongs also to children. They certainly don't have years to lose in waiting for decisions. The children's lives are here and now. The Government must give Finland a welfare leap and transfer Finland to full-time free early childhood education. It would increase the participation of children in early childhood education, improve the purchasing power of families with children, reduce poverty and reduce unemployment and thus increase tax revenues. It is also a cost-effective way of improving incentives to do work, because it is a fact that payments are a negative incentive to accept work. Fees are an integral part of the family’s household for parents, and in families with multiple children they are several hundred euros a month. For example, full-time free early childhood education can be carried out in such a way that the income limits for the zero-payment category will be increased over the next three years so that in 2021 all families will be in the zero-payment category.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u356	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen spoke well a moment ago, saying that this is a hard week for low-income people when it comes to decisions. That's right. But now for this speech of my own. Mr President! Positive economic development is particularly sweet news for Finland after a weaker period. The improved growth forecasts will give the State a little more financial room for manoeuvre, but the overall situation is that the state’s chest is currently not heavy enough. The debt burden is still quite hard, and Finland does not have the desired resources to build society and increase well-being. The development of public services is the cornerstone of the welfare society. The government will therefore focus on curbing state debt, reducing the sustainability gap and improving the employment situation. For example, employment figures are currently more pleasant to read than they were a few years ago. The extent to which government action has contributed to this is a question mark. Few countries succeed in bringing employment and economic indicators to the brink of frost. A coalition-led government policy favours more well-performing citizens, but for the disadvantaged, government policy means weakening everyday services. When the government cuts public services, the sufferers are just some other than the Espoan family living in a fancy house, which only deals with the health of Bees. When you look outside the growing cities, the reality is different, there is no money or bees other than in the meadows. In particular, services run away from smaller localities as a result of savings, and people are in distress there. It's hard for them to understand the government's savings. Social welfare reform and its less exemplary progress are also a source of concern for people. Personally, I am concerned not only with people but also with the dismantling of the whole public health system and the empowerment of large private health professionals in the public health market. They're more interested in money than public health, that's what I'm thinking. When drawing up the budget, the government always faces value choices: for example, do we want to spend money on the development of early childhood education or on improving the status of older people, or do hundreds of millions of tax dollars be spent on development aid whose effectiveness can be varied? The Finns Party believes that state funds should be used primarily to strengthen public services and improve the quality of life of Finns. Well, then, where's the money? The Finns are truly on the side of the entrepreneur. Promoting entrepreneurship is high on our list because we consider it to create work and opportunities for both individuals and society. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular should be speeded up more actively and courageously. A couple of concrete examples of how the Finns of Finland would boost business growth and hence employment: raising the lower limit of VAT obligations and the so-called Estonian model of corporate taxation. These tricks have been known for a long time, and I cannot help but wonder why the government has not taken it upon itself to reform business taxation with a view to encouraging, developing and increasing its activities. The government's EU policy, despite a number of deviations, is very positive towards the EU and is strengthening the alarming federal development for Finland. With regard to economic policy, this means huge risks for Finland through solidarity and, in particular, constraints to take forward many smart ideas for reform. As the representatives of Meri and Kangasniemi mentioned earlier, there are huge risks, as the economist at the University of Helsinki, Tuomas Malinen, has warned. The Finns of Peru are calling for a fairer economic policy across the board. On the government list and at the top of it are the people who are already doing well, but the others will be forgotten. During this autumn, we have repeatedly highlighted our entrepreneurship and employment packages: strengthening domestic agriculture, facilitating the everyday lives of families with children, promoting the well-being of pensioners and addressing the price of housing. We have tabled budget initiatives to improve the situation of veterans, to strengthen basic education and early childhood education, to prevent the exclusion of young people and to increase recreational activities. We always cherish the interests of Finland in our politics. We do not support asylum tourism or federal EU policies. This is where you heard it: we are an ordinary Finnish lobby party. Mr President! Finally, the current government policy and budget guidelines have rightly been criticised for increasing inequality. If the line doesn't change, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u357	Mr President! Today, in this Chamber, the budget for 2018 has been discussed and opposition parties have also presented their own alternative budgets. We in the Socialist Parliament have also prepared and made our own alternative budget, which would take less debt than the government would take but would distribute it more fairly, the money and the budgetary resources available to it. I am not going to repeat everything from the beginning at this stage, but during the day, when I did not receive the debatable speeches, there were a few things that I would like to comment on at this stage. Among the centre in particular, there was a great deal of boasting about how this government does not cut the local government economy, and just from this state budget proposal on page 11 a direct quote under the heading of local government finances: "A total of EUR 10.6 billion will be allocated to local government aid for 2018, and they will rise by around 0.1 per cent of the budgeted budget for 2017. A total of EUR 9.4 billion is proposed for imputed central government contributions, which is 1.4 per cent less than budgeted for 2017." So it's not an increase. It's a reduction. I would like to add another sentence: "The combined effect of state measures on the municipal economy will be approximately EUR 129 million for 2018." I saw a message to Mr Korhonen, who, among other things, raised it here today. The second thing: Mr Multala said that suddenly, supposedly, inequality is everywhere, and he accused everyone of perhaps believing that now, because it is constantly being ground up here. This is exactly the hall where it has to be chewed on. If justice is not taken care of in this Chamber, no one else will. The way in which state funds are allocated to the most deprived, the most vulnerable, to the sick, to children, to young people and so on is precisely our business, and here in the opposition we are working hard to put an end to this development of inequality, end, decrease, and therefore, yes, we will be talking about this issue if the index freezes, cuts in social benefits, pensions, wages and so on continue. To this end, I would like to say that we are living in a society where, according to various statistics, there are more than 100,000 children living below the poverty line, around 500,000 working people live below the poverty line and 350,000 pensioners live on a monthly income of less than EUR 1000. If these figures and these statistics do not give rise to inequality in Finland, which must be tackled and put into action, I find that strange. I object to the following motion of censure: 'The Committee notes that the government has failed in its economic policy. The government's value choices increase inequality and reduce trust in society. Policy neglects future economic and employment growth. Reforms to strengthen employment and skills in the future will not be completed. Growth must belong to everyone. Parliament therefore calls for the Government to immediately bring to Parliament new corrective measures to promote a fair distribution of growth, reduce inequalities and strengthen economic growth and employment in the long term. Parliament considers that the government has failed and does not enjoy the confidence of Parliament."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u358	Mr President! The Prime Minister again today called for Finland to be put in good shape. It is good to stop in front of this argument once more and ask whether Finland will be all right. In fact, as we look further, in 2015 Finland’s structural deficit in public finances was 0.8. A great deal of work was done during the last government term to achieve that level of structural deficit. At the time, the government adjusted expenditure by nearly EUR 5.5 billion, some of which were painful cuts, some of which were tax adjustments, and the overall adjustment of revenue and expenditure brought about the result of some EUR 5.5 billion of the adjustment at the time. In 2015, there was a situation where the structural government deficit was 0.8. This government, when it started, decided to put Finland in shape. At that time, the programme for the structural deficit of public finances, which was implemented to reduce that deficit, started to be reduced by EUR 10 billion in the structural deficit of public finances. It was now decided that 4 billion of these measures would be made by direct cuts, 3 billion by means of war and 3 billion by means of the Kiki agreement by promoting competitiveness. Today, at the end of 2017, we are in a situation where these beautiful speeches have become mere speeches. In fact, the Government launched a strict adjustment programme during 2015, resulting in a reduction in public services, benefits and, in particular, education of around EUR 1 billion per year, so that from the beginning of 2016, a clear change in the development of the structural deficit is already seen, leaving that structural deficit at 0.4 for 2016. The medium-term objective of the EU's objectives was already clearly set at that time. In 2016, the government invented an ever-movement called kiky, and on the basis of this kiky, these savings of 3.5 billion were unfortunately converted into tax reliefs of 2 billion. Tax reductions were made in such a way that, in particular, a solution favouring high incomes led to a situation in which employees' losses were compensated by significant tax reductions. This is seen by Professor Roope Uusitalo, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council and its chairman as a turning point in the development of the structural government deficit in Finland. That's when the government faced a divisional hazard. This risk of division led to a situation where the plan for the structural government deficit has been derailed. We are already in a situation where the structural deficit for 2017 was the same as for 2015. In other words, it can be said that the people who paid very much and contributed very little actually were deceived by this government’s structural deficit target, because a significant part of the savings made, that is to say EUR 3.5 billion in savings, amounted to EUR 2 billion, went into this divisive risk that the government faced during 2016. We are now in a situation where the structural deficit of public finances will be far behind what the EU requires in the medium term, which is 0.5. The forecast is that the flexibility granted for 2017-2019 is not enough, as the deficit can then be 1.1% of GDP. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u359	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Kymäläinen's statement that the government is given mistrust of its budget. There has been a great deal of talk about growth and employment in this debate, and I think that is quite right, because in these we must focus. But we should also talk more about the content of growth and the quality of employment, because they have been forgotten here. We talk about quantitative estimates when we should go inside for quality, so that we can find the right solutions and sustainable solutions to raise Finland. It is worth remembering that growth is, however, only an instrument in pursuing a cohesive, just and equal society in which as many people as possible can work. And when I talk about work, I talk about paid work, I talk about entrepreneurship, I also talk about volunteering and meaningful doing that brings prosperity to this society. Our working life structures are changing in such a way that it may be that in five to ten years' time, the traditional economic indicators with which we are used to measuring success and success will no longer apply in the same way as before. For example, the employment rate can be one of these. It is what happens there within the employment rate, how well people get along with their salaries, how long careers they can do, how their health lasts through their careers, and there are many other indicators that we should look at more closely, and these are often forgotten in this macroeconomic debate. With these indicators, which we now have, it is clear that the objective must be at least 2% economic growth, and then it is essential what structural reforms we are doing and what our adjustment measures are. In my opinion, in many austerity measures in this Chamber, we have failed ourselves. If you take the government's proposals through, specifically through the savings laws, and look at how many savings laws or employment laws that aim to make our unemployed more employable, the economic effects say that this law will raise so and so much housing support expenditure, or this law will raise so and so much income support expenditure, both for us as if the end-of-life savings targets were completely different from what they appear to be in the government's speeches. And in the end, what happens in income support customers, what happens in employment rates, for example, comes from this whole and not from the fact that some budget law has set a target. One example of this is the so-called active model of employment. One of the speakers said earlier that the active model is that you can study with unemployment benefit or, for example, you can try with unemployment benefit. This is the kind of active model that I too am very much in favour of and support. Unfortunately, however, the active model that the government has brought into this house means that if the unemployed cannot find work, his unemployment benefit will be cut. At the same time, it is thought that some people are employed, and certainly for some people, it is possible to find jobs and, as it were, stay in this better unemployment security, benefit from changes in the days of ownership and others, but a very large number of people fall into the income support hatch, and thus the whole goal of activity becomes a travesty, because we know that when a person is a supporter of income, his incentives to work and gain a job are very difficult because the income support cuts even the small euros that he manages to earn. In addition, income support is, as it were, a much bigger bureaucratic trap than the fact that people are covered by unemployment benefit and can take advantage of, for example, the free leg of EUR 300. Well, then, if we are considering growth otherwise, then its content should be evaluated. We know that gross domestic product will grow if the house returns, because then a new house will be built and the fire department will also visit it. We know that Winterfell looked good on many occasions in our economic figures, but at the same time we know that we are going to have to spend a lot of money to make up for what has happened on the environmental side, for example. That is why we should be able to assess these figures for growth from the point of view of the degree of well-being they produce for us or the level of employment they generate for us. Within the same employment policy, we should look at how many people get along with their work. If we have an increasing number of people who are dependent not only on their income but also on transfers of income, our employment rate must be much higher than in a model in which people can get along with their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u360	Mr President! This new draft budget has also abolished the grant to the Association of Christian Schools in Finland, which was very significant. Then all the money has been removed from their club activities. There are several hundred of these private schools based on law and licence in Finland, 23 of which are Christian schools. These are the children of Finnish taxpayers, and now they have been deprived of this aid money, as well as the schools of foreign Finns that had been promised this year when they came here and hoped that their economy would finally be restored. All the parliamentary groups were listening to them and solemnly announced that these things will now be put in order. Not even for Finland 100 years. Then I would like to return to what I have just said when I have not finished. For example, the previous budget book for 2017 has its own paragraph, entitled "The Habits of the Matala Threshold". This has been completely removed. There's a food facility here, among other things. The committee added EUR 1.1 million to the current budget for low-threshold and direct aid, such as food and other material aid. This was continued for this year, and the committee therefore argued that, according to the report received by the committee, there are estimated to be between 20,000 and 25,000 people who weekly source their food through the so-called bread lines: "The distribution of food for aid has in practice become an important part of the security of the most disadvantaged and of the public services, since the bread queues mainly depend on people living on basic security benefits and those in poor labour market status." The committee then added EUR 1 million, which was intended for national actors. Now this activity was organized with the Ministry, and it produced a lot of good things. Then, last year, the committee added EUR 1 million to specific support for drug addicts and support for the economy of organisations providing care facilities, because it was very weak. All these wonderful things that gave some hope to these hopeless ones have now been wiped out. Someone once said that the state budget is the most important value barometer in society. It values people, their needs, and the money that is going to be used for the benefit of the people. If this budget now reflects the values of this government, if it describes, as I understand it, the real work that is considered to be a success, then I wonder whether I want to be involved in the success that takes the bread from the lowest income, from the one who has to go to the bread line — certainly would not want to, but has to go. I myself have been involved in helping people since I was 14 years old. I'm gonna keep it going as long as my legs work. Let me just say about this reality outside the house that there is a very different idea inside and how this money should be distributed is also very different. I hope that some sort of humane debate here will sometimes be conducted and spoken of in the right names. Unfortunately, these promises and speeches that have been heard so often in the electoral fields then disappear here when these budgets are made. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u361	Mr President! I will continue with that subject, which I have just decided on, namely early childhood education fees, which are therefore an essential part of the family economy for parents. Indeed, those contributions may amount to up to several hundred euros per month in a multi-child family, and therefore full-time early childhood education must be carried out in Finland free of charge and can be carried out in such a way as to increase the income limits for the zero-payment category of early childhood education contributions over the next three years, so that in 2021 all families will be in the zero-payment category and will not pay day care fees. From the economic point of view of the country, gradual implementation is possible, and from the point of view of fairness, it is right to start free of charge for families with low and medium incomes, when families with wealth become the last to be free of charge. The first step towards full free payment is already in the alternative budget of our Social Democrats, where we have raised the zero-rate income ceiling more than the country's government. We would remove payments from more families and, in the first phase, we would bring two middle-paid parents into the scope of the rebates. Our option also includes the right of unemployed children to full-time early education, i.e. to abolish this restriction and reduce the group sizes of day care centres. Only by focusing on education and human capital and strengthening it will Finland rise. The government does not have its own budget to do it, but instead cuts education at every level. The rise in educational attainment is halting in Finland. At the same time, growth continues in many other countries, so Finland’s relative level of education is falling compared to other countries. Even at the beginning of the 21st century, Finland was among the most educated nations in the world, but now our relative position is deteriorating rapidly, and this development must definitely be reversed. We have sunk into the middle caste of the OECD countries. Just today I was at the STTK Low-Payment Seminar, where Sixten Korkman was talking, and he, among other things, resented cutting out of education. This is not going to be the way Finland is going to be. Mr President! In particular, men's opportunities in working life rest on education. The most difficult to find employment are those young men who only have comprehensive school studies, prolonged unemployment and low work history in the last ten years. These boys and men's ill health must be stopped, and therefore the SDP proposes in its own option that young people undertake at least upper secondary education, i.e. compulsory education, be extended to 18 years, thereby also making secondary education free of charge. The extension of compulsory education and the subsequent conversion of secondary education free of charge is a reasonably advantageous reform in terms of their benefits. VATT estimates that one year of compulsory education will increase the cost of education by only EUR 17 to 27 million per year. Over time, this kind of investment will cost itself many times as much by increasing employment and decreasing social exclusion. Mr President! Three of the budgets of the country's central-driven government have now been seen, and each is in the same direction: Finland's growing inequality and indebtedness. I support Mr Kymäläinen's motion of censure on the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u362	Mr President! The actions of the Sipilä Government threaten to lead to a strong division of society among those who are highly successful and excluded from society. Finland is running towards a society of non-participation. Many are unwittingly isolated without interaction or appreciation. Inequality is the greatest possible waste. We are wasting people's abilities and opportunities by standing on bread lines and cards. This government has convinced Finns that there is no alternative to an unfair policy. The SDP has a safe and human alternative to the present. The cancellation of the government's proposal has taken on a lot of trust capital and the performance of society. Public confidence must be restored. Mr President! There is still a human and economic decline in the previous recession. That is why it is important to see how we deal with this previous recession and build a bridge to the future. We are not paying the burden of the recession on ordinary people. During the last term of the government, the social democrats went on to say that the mistakes of the 1990s are not repeated. According to the THL, the changes in benefit and tax legislation between 12 and 15 did indeed significantly reduce both the income gap and the low income ratio. According to the People’s Values 2016 survey, 90% of Finns believe that the weaker and the underprivileged should be taken care of. The cuts made by the Sipilä government to minimum benefits, medical benefits and unemployment benefit are incompatible with this opinion. The lowest incomes are most heavily involved in balancing the economy. The largest cuts are made from low-income wage and salary earners, pensioners, unemployed, sick, students and families with children. Surgery for the same person or family has a major impact on daily living. The cuts in benefits and the weakening of indexes lead to a reduction in purchasing power, as there is less and less money available for consumption. The loss of purchasing power will lead to the plight of families under Christmas. We would reverse unfair cuts in the daily lives of people with low and middle incomes. Our alternative is to reduce income differentials where the government's proposal increases them. As a result of severe cuts, the level of skills is falling, competitiveness is falling, purchasing power is falling and unemployment is prolonged. Inequality between citizens is deepening and poverty is increasing. Although many people are cut from their livelihoods and basic security, debt does not fail, but on the contrary increases. The money obtained from cuts in social security and education and services will be distributed to the government's own background groups. The recipients of a million-dollar inheritances, forest owners and those with the highest incomes will receive permanent large tax reductions without justified benefits in terms of employment and growth. The Government's own Economic Policy Review Council has pointed out that taxation is completely absent from the Government's choice of means. This year Finland celebrates 100 years of independence. It is time to think about what things and values make Finland the society we want to defend. For me, they are freedom, justice and equality of opportunity. If I get an almond from Christmas porridge, I hope that Finland will continue to be able to succeed and live well regardless of its background and wealth. Our society is undergoing a change that many people are concerned about. In any case, I will continue to work on these values next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u363	Mr President! We have lived for a long time in times of economic challenge and uncertainty. However, the direction of Finland's economy has changed, and the growth rate of the economy is quite good for this year. There will be at least moderate growth for the next few years. Many companies are growing rapidly, and very many companies have bright business prospects. The dark recession is now over, and so we are at a time of bright growth. In order to restore Finland's lost competitiveness, the government has taken concrete action in this proposal as well. Lost competitiveness has been a major cause of our economic crisis. The development of private companies and businesses has been and remains under pressure from rigid structures and excessive cost burdens. The battle against gloomy economic trends has been going on for years. When you follow the public debate, you may have the impression that Parliament and the government have done nothing. But it's bullshit. For the past two years, you can list a long list of individual actions that the current government has launched and which have restored faith in the future of our country's economy. However, it must be understood that the competitiveness of the Finnish economy is still not in order. The truth is, too, that the current growth is largely due to the absorption of global growth. In the world, the economy has been growing for a long time, but its economic impact is now evident in us. Now, if ever, the structures need to be lightened, competitiveness will be improved even with strict measures, so that we do not fall on top of nothing, while the world economic cycle will inevitably decline after two or three years. The cold fact is that although we are doing better financially than we are doing for years, we will still have to take some EUR 3 billion in debt next year. This is something that everyone should consider with him. What should we do next? The way the market operates must be developed, i.e. the ways in which work is agreed in Finland must be reformed. Further local agreement is needed so that working conditions can be agreed at the workplace. There must be a general understanding that the owner, employer and employees are in the same boat. For understanding to come about, mutual trust is needed. The Ay movement must come to the 21st century, and business owners must also take responsibility for other things than profits. This will enable us to get our employment rates from less than 70% up to 75% and more, to the figures that the other Nordic countries are already in. The rigid organisational structures of the public sector also need to be dismantled and the private sector needs to be made more use of in the service sector. The incentive for taxation needs to be further increased. By changing taxation so that investment and work are better served by bread, it will boost economic growth and create more jobs. It cannot be repeated too much that, as businesses grow, new wealth and new jobs will be created. Social services will be paid for their tax revenue. Therefore, the development and growth of enterprises is an important issue for all Finns. The government is determined to take our country in exactly the right direction. The budget under discussion for 2018 is good and strengthens the rise in our economy and shows that the Minister of Finance Orpo and the government want and are able to assume their responsibility for a better tomorrow for all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u364	Mr President! As employment and the economy grow, it will be emphasised whether growth and the economy are on a sustainable footing, and today, as a result of excessive tax cuts, a growing structural deficit has rightly been raised as a counterpart to this positive image of growth and an improvement in the employment situation, of course. Mr President! We are also in the process of adopting the Finland 101 budget, and I must say that I would have liked it to have been a stronger budget for civilized Finland. We would need a return to education and civilisation, which would also be reflected in the budget. We know that only with a strong investment in education, research and science, growth and employment are sustainable. In fact, I have experienced a little as Mr Laukkanen described here a moment ago specifically in this area of education. It seems that the perception in the field is quite different from that of many in this house as to how things are going right now. The savings in recent years have led to a situation where many teachers clearly find it difficult to do their job properly and there may be a surprising number of emergency calls from every level. Today, a very concrete message came from the Amisbarometer, which was published this morning, which described the views of this year and related them to those of two years ago. Two years ago, one in five Amish people wanted more teaching in their own field. In the figures published today, the corresponding figure was already over one third of young people. The SDP option is an alternative to a civilised state and identifies two key issues. The SDP invests in education and research, unlike the government with its continued absurd savings during the entire government term, and the option of the SDP also recognises that changes in education and training must always be made with a long-term and prudent approach, solutions that most often involve whole age groups and effects extend very far into the future. I myself have been working on education and research for twenty years, and as we look at the future now and seek long-term stability, I think we have five major objectives in the fields of education, education and science. We must restore the educational equality of children so that anyone can continue to become anything in this country. This applies to early childhood education and comprehensive school. Then we need to raise the level of education. So this applies to the second and third levels. In addition, we need to create opportunities for updating skills and lifelong learning at a completely new level. Fourthly, we need to recognise the importance of science and research as a solution to the most difficult issues in the world, as an engine for the economy and, at the same time, as a job for scientists. And finally, we must be so good at all of this that we can also take responsibility globally, take on international leadership in education, because it is constantly being offered to us, and that is what the children of the world deserve, and it would benefit the Finnish economy as well. Well, we are not moving sufficiently towards these objectives of education and research with this draft budget. A couple of weeks ago, my academic friend from the University of Helsinki said that he felt that the current state of education policy was a momentary crisis policy that looked mainly back. So this is what it seems to the mind of a person doing research who is still studying schools. Well, the budget option of the SDP in terms of education and education has a number of major objectives and is being pursued. The investments in gender equality were introduced into the state budget by the SDP during the previous period when the decline in gender equality in comprehensive school was identified. Well, as we know this season, this money has been cut by as much as 80%, and even after all the additions that have been made in this final phase, we are still far from those figures, while inequality has increased. As far as the level of education is concerned, the option of the SDP is clear. In the future, primary education alone will no longer be sufficient to integrate into the labour market, so there is a need to extend compulsory education and to make the second level free of charge. As a long-term reform, extending compulsory education is a natural continuation of the education month, which has already proved to be an effective tool. With regard to the updating of knowledge and lifelong learning, of course, we will pay attention to the continuation of the knowledge programme for young adults and, in the field of science and research, our alternative would ensure a completely different future policy. Mr President! Indeed, as employment and the economy grow, it is emphasised whether growth is on a sustainable basis. It is easy to end by referring to Mr Kiuru's speech this afternoon, in which he quoted Professor Matti Pohjola and his comments in Helsingin Sanomat: "The cuts are specifically affecting the growth of production potential.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u365	Mr President! The Government’s ability to act shows its results: Finland’s economy is growing, employment is improving, and the end of living in debt is nearing. Decisions have been made under the leadership of Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, which will contribute to this, including additional investments in basic security, municipal services, education and, above all, transport projects. We are definitely on the path of reforms and only and only through structural, major reforms, we can also increase spending on the public side in the future. Major educational reforms are now being carried out and, for example, the new financing model for transport routes could be used. It is clear that the social and regional reform will be brought to the end and that every Finn has earned good, equal public health services. There is still a slight cooling-off in the legislation on freedom of choice with regard to the reform of social security. We have dismantled hundreds of unnecessary standards and laws, such as turning the cottage area into a permanent dwelling and erecting signposts on the side of the road without obligation to report. Mr President! Our economic growth is very sprouting. There is still no extra money to be shared by the state, and it is therefore incomprehensible that the Social Democrats have again put a great deal of new expenditure on the public side, for example by extending the compulsory age or by putting all early childhood education on a free basis. This is untenable if we continue to increase public spending. Now is not the time to increase government spending and also to take on more debt. There's enough for future generations to pay. Now all the vigour in the opposition must be put into it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u366	When there are so few speeches at this stage, you can reserve them with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u367	Mr President! Representative Vehkäperä has just witnessed in two minutes the invisibility that is currently present in the government parties. Imagine if there's something wrong with this big picture: At the time of Finland’s bad performance in 2015 — only in the spring of 2015 at the time of the Parliamentary elections did the economy begin to pull, in other words, in practice, Finland’s exports refreshed — then the government made the programme in the summer, in which it decided in its programme that, during a difficult time, purchasing power would be supported, especially those who already have purchasing power. Of the ten deciles, this government decided that only four top deciles will be added as a result of government policy. Congressman Hobbs, don't you think this is something that hurts your heart? Thus, the six lowest deciles remained negative as a result of government policy, and this choice of values was made in 2015 in a situation where Finnish growth was not yet achieved and the economy was not properly running. It was decided to revive, in particular, the high income — think — the ability of high incomes to maintain purchasing power. Such a choice of values was made in 2015, and these facts are available to everyone. A great deal of economic policy research has been carried out on income distribution. Now that Finland is doing well, the economy is pulling, exports have been refreshed, export-driven growth is emerging, and the government is still in a position to insist that, in a good economic situation, in practice, the recovery is not needed by those to whom justice should be restored, the people who were deprived of it by the 2015 decisions, with which the government decided to cut 4 billion from basic security, benefits and education. None of these have been restored, not the fairness that was taken, despite promises, but the expenditure will continue in December 2017. The only difference is that the fruit of economic growth has now come here, so to speak. But to whom do these fruits belong at this time? They belong to those who already do. Once again, it is right that the purchasing power of high-income people should be made easier because, as I said just now, look at ten deciles with Finnish income distribution in cold numbers. This government leaves a plus mark of only the purchasing power of the top four deciles. It does tell us that there is something wrong with this policy, which is why the Finnish opposition does not easily give in to the view of this government that inequality has not been increased. Is it not quite a big increase in inequality if a conscious decision is made that when things go badly, the purchasing power of those who already have it will be revived? But when there is a distribution reserve, economic fruit, then justice will not be restored despite promises, but in 2018 all four top deciles will be presented with an increase in purchasing power — for those who already have. This doesn't seem very fair. I am sorry that I had to spend four minutes on this, Mr President, when I would have liked to have said this reply just now to Mr Vehkaperä. But there was another three minutes. Mr President! Now that we can ask what the Social Democrats would do: here, when it was criticised that the Social Democrats would fatten up this welfare state again, you are right in the sense that we are not going to leave the welfare state to be scrapped. We do not depart from the assumption that we would rather share as an ideological choice, as this government has done, tax reductions for those who already have. Let us cancel the unfair advantages that the government has tailored to its interests and then discuss who should really be given it in next year's budget in such difficult times to restore justice. I believe that this is the fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u368	Mr Vehkaperä's name was mentioned so many times that Mr Vehkaperä would be given the floor and then, if he so requests, a reply to Mr Kiuru. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u369	Mr President! The Sipilä government has successfully directed tax reductions to people with low and middle incomes [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u370	Mr President! We could afford to reverse this disparate course. We would take less debt than this government will. Congressman Vehkäperä listed just fine the things you do well. I think it was fair for solidarity to be increased at the top of the distribution of income, as you do. It's just that I'm sorry I didn't finish my solidarity. We propose stronger solidarity with the high incomes of society because it is not fair for Finns who depended on benefits, i.e. on basic security in practice, not to be able to understand from the government that they received index increases in benefits, but those who were subject to labour taxation received index increases, and especially those with high incomes in society received significantly more tax reductions when the way in which they were implemented by the government favours high incomes. And although these good things that you mentioned clearly bring purchasing power to the lower deciles, unfortunately the purchasing power will disappear with these other decisions that will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u371	Mr President! The problem with the government's income-sharing policy is that the result seems to be different if you look at income tax, for example, as if you look at the point taxes that have been allocated to those who have capital income with entrepreneurship, through which corporate tax reforms within companies favour the tenth that is in the best position. That is why taxation must be considered as a whole, and as far as these transfers are concerned, the increases and corrections made are in the right direction, but, at the same time, when the other hand is cut from the same group, the result is not as positive as it might be from the point of view of individual benefits. But I asked to speak because I wanted to say a few more words about education and remind you that the knowledge-based debt is in fact much more dangerous than the money debt. Monetary debt can be corrected in one budget, but the knowledge-based debt is on our human side and on the employment side for a very long time. When it comes to money, it is important to remember in the debate on debt to separate investment debt from eating debt, and when investing in education from investing in growth in the future. Finland is threatened with a sustainability gap of expertise, which is even more dangerous than the economic sustainability gap from the age structure, which is talked about a lot in this house. It is worth investing in training, because the return on investment in education is the best future policy. In fact, even in early childhood education — if you think of the OECD estimates — one euro produces seven times as much, and the same logic also works in other education. Lowering early childhood education fees is a good thing, and here I can say that it is a good thing that the government turned its coat around and the increases turned into discounts. It also has a long-term impact on employment. But we must make sure that this reduction in payment does not lead to a deterioration in the quality of early childhood education in the municipalities, because somewhere there the money will be built. Even if it is much better for a master in a global top business to focus on his work and its results when he knows that his children or aged elderly people are well cared for. Education expenditure accounts for more than 10% of all public expenditure, and we are in fact below the OECD average, which is a worrying feature, because everywhere on this planet we are competing for high productivity and high skill levels, and if we lose in this competition, then we will only face price competition, and we know what is at the end of it. There are only trampled and once again trampled and trampled down, and then we are no longer a welfare state. It is therefore necessary to focus on raising productivity in employment and workplaces rather than on price competitiveness, although this should be the case, but it also comes from the whole, not just from wages. It is about knowledge, it is about the organisation of work, it is about the investments that are being made and how smart things are being done. The Finnish education system is based on far-reaching public funding more than anywhere else, and that is why public funding is so important in education and in our knowledge. It is greater than in countries where, for example, companies are building more intensively, and this must not be forgotten, and then public investment, for example, will have an important role to play in ensuring the quality of early childhood education up to the highest level of research and product development. There has been talk here of extending compulsory education and of this being a somewhat irresponsible policy. In fact, it is the most responsible policy. The social exclusion of young people is costly in a human and economic way, and in the long term it also jeopardises the availability of our skilled workforce and thus the sustainability of the national economy as a whole. Secondary compulsory education is a necessary investment. By the way, this idea is shared by many, many, many economists and economists because they see it as an investment in the future and know how to secure the workforce, but also as a human factor that protects the lives of young people in one piece. We are used to saying that a skilled Finland will succeed, and our success has been built on the competitive benefits of a high level of education. But things change. In fact, the training structure of our workforce is changing. In the long term, we have fewer highly trained workers than before, and this is where the alarm bells should ring. We cannot think that in the future we narrowly believe that a person has the right to only one degree or one professional qualification when the whole world of innovation is crying out for multidisciplinary skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u372	Mr President! Mr Nylund has explained in detail today in our group speech how the alternative budget of the Swedish parliamentary group differs from the government's budget proposal and, of course, has also set out certain aspects of the budget report. One thing I would like to draw attention to myself relates to taxation. Our tax policy model for next year assumes that taxes on earned income will be reduced more in all income categories than the government is prepared to do. We finance this by modestly raising VAT by 0.5 percentage points, but so that this does not apply to these deciles 1 and 2, at the same time we increase the financial aid to the level at which it was, when the government began its work, we increase the guarantee pension more than the government does, we increase the single parent increase more than the government does, and we also abolish the freeze on the index of national pensions. In this way we will receive such a compensatory package, which will also guarantee the purchasing power of deciles 1 and 2. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the recent OECD tax survey and comparison, which shows that tax progress is very difficult in Finland, especially for middle-class income recipients. If you earn 3500 euros a month, you pay 5.1 percentage points more tax than in Sweden. This has to change. Mr President! Finally, I would like to support the motion of censure tabled earlier today by Mr Mats Nylund.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u373	Mr President! Mr Vehkaperä said that this government is investing heavily in basic security, among other things. But some of the truth was not said, for it is the basic security that this government is cutting. This government cuts basic security, student aid — up to one third — unemployment security, pensions, services and medicines, and these continue every year. The government cuts employment management and training, and the government has also cut holiday money. Representative Vehkaperä also praised the Government's transport efforts. It is good, therefore, that there is an investment in basic infrastructure management, but those investments are not sensational, although historical, to the extent that there has never been as little investment in new road projects as is done during this government term. This government invests only 0.7 billion in new road projects, compared with 1.8 to 2.5 billion in previous periods. [Department :Municipal funds! ] We in our alternative budget would take less debt. Mr Vehkaperä wondered where the opposition or the SDP would take funds for these new large fair contributions. But yes, we have presented it in our alternative budget. We would like to see an extension of compulsory education that would guarantee free secondary education for every young person. We would withdraw the restriction of subjective care rights — which this government brought about — so that every child would have equal access to comprehensive school. We would also reduce the size of groups again, as we did during the last term of government. That is what this government has changed and increased group sizes. Mr Kopra said that the gloomy recession is over, that the economy is growing and that employment is increasing. These are good things, and the government deserves to be commended, of course. But economic growth in the world has also, of course, accelerated this issue, and perhaps those solutions made during the last term of government have contributed to this. But when the gloomy recession is over, its division must be guided fairly and equitably, and, above all, it must be made easier for those who have the least of all. According to that yellow budget book, the government takes over EUR 30 from the unemployed and gives over EUR 400 to the well-earned. This is not the SDP's view of fairness or the elimination of inequality, and we will be raising that issue. Much can be fixed, but there are things that are difficult to forgive or which are also difficult to repair afterwards. The fact that the government cuts off all levels of education cuts where the benefits for the future... It’s like putting money into a bank when you invest in education, investing in children and young people. But no, this government will cut from there. Finland invests the least in basic education in the Nordic countries. That is what the OAJ has said. It's unforgivable, and we'd do it differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u374	Mr President! With some comments on the recent pecking: When we talk about cutting holiday money, let’s be honest, the holiday money was also cut by the SDP, if you refer to the adoption of the kiky agreement. You were involved in accepting it. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude] But as much as we talk about the budget, there are two key issues that do not really include contributions from people other than the Finns. The first of these issues, which was the subject of the motion of censure tabled by Mr Meri, to the government, and by Mr Kangasniemi, is what the risks to the economy and to our sovereignty in general are for the development of the EU. The hard talk is that the Emu can take it now. Yet, basically, nothing there has changed. Greece and its debts are printed with wool, dammed with common funds, yet the system is on the verge of collapse in the event of a crisis in a larger country. It's exactly the same as it was before. Where is the responsibility of the government and the red-greening position when they refuse to even discuss a contingency plan to withdraw from the euro? What about preparedness for other crisis scenarios, which may and may be true in the coming years? The second issue that some people seem to think should not even be discussed here is immigration and its costs. However, the crisis of immigration in 2015 with its aftercare and other immigration is already causing a billion-dollar bill for us, with multiples, up to half of our net debt. Immigration is now in order, says the government. A more loose immigration policy, screaming the red-green opposition. In particular, these latter speeches are completely irresponsible. Where's the money from? But the government's policy is not responsible either. We are now confident that others will guard our borders for us. Where are the concrete measures already agreed long ago to prevent the new immigration crises that are taking away our attraction? On the contrary, the government is running away from its responsibility, even by granting more money to illegal residents and offering more money for those in illegal countries to agree to leave our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u375	Mr President! Indeed, we could have made it a little faster in the debatable round when Mr Vehkaperä was still in the Chamber. But briefly: Representative Filatov spoke of the education debt and the knowledge debt, the lack of sustainability of skills, with the expertise of a highly experienced representative. Yes, we really must emphasise this role of education policy as an element of growth policy. Education increases productivity and actually also provides insurance in these very varied labour market situations. That is why we in the SDP have really considered it justified that the biggest investments should be made specifically in education, research and product development, investing in all levels of education. That is why, when Mr Vehkäperä wonders that more money would now be spent on this compulsory education, I thought that, first of all, when we look at these analyses of the employment rate, we would simply assume that the employment rate of those who have completed primary education would be at the same level as that of those who have completed secondary education, our employment rate would be 3 percentage points higher. So we are talking about the impact of billions when these costs are in tens of millions. Above all, this opposition from the government parties to extending compulsory education is a little unusual that it is probably a goal shared by everyone, that everyone should complete a secondary degree. Now, for the first time, we have quite strong evidence that, once the entire age group has been taken into account within the framework of the education month, efforts have been made to get everyone to start the second stage, so the starting rate has actually risen. We and Mr Törmälä looked back for ten years and said this. It is, of course, logical to say that, with this whole age group solution, we are also seeking to complete secondary qualifications for the majority of the age group and therefore to reach a situation in which so many OECD countries already are, that is to say, the second stage is part of compulsory education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u376	Mr President! I would also like to address this issue of income differentials, which has sometimes burst in here and which Mr Vehkaperä has also drawn attention to. It has to be said now that income differences in Finland have not increased, neither now nor in recent years. When you look at the Gini curve, it runs a perfectly flat line when you put it on a fair scale and so on. The tax reductions that the government has made are mainly aimed at people with low and middle incomes. Their tax burden, especially for middle-income, working Finns, is already very high. They are basically the group of people who pay for this fun, all these current transfers or a particularly large part of them. This tax progression of the average income of ordinary Finns must be reduced. Taxation needs to be reduced, it promotes growth, and it also rains on low incomes. This must continue to be the guiding principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u377	Mr President! I asked to speak at that point when Mr Vehkaperä spoke about the reform of social welfare and health care. I have to say that this social confusion has taken quite a turn in our region, for example in the West-North region, where this joint venture is now being set up. Yes, in this social reform, all the objectives that were originally the cornerstones of this reform will disappear. It had to reduce health inequalities, it had to achieve integration, it had to bring about a smoothing of costs, and it had to curb these transnational companies. And what's gonna happen? Quite the opposite, now these supranational companies stormed into our health markets, doing business with people's health. This is unacceptable. And I certainly hope that there will still be a sensible solution in the West North. It is an exceptional solution for the whole kingdom to privatise both basic and special care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u378	Mr President! Mr Vehkaperä has already left the Chamber, but I myself asked for the floor after his speech, and the thick text of his blood came from there. It is true that when you have had a hard hand cut from basic safety and then put a little more in it, it can be said that it has now been raised. And this is a good thing that a little more has now been put in there, but it does not remove the fact that there was a heavy hand cut at the beginning of the reign. At a time when the government adapted, it sought the adjustment money from the lowest incomes, but now that it has been able to afford to reduce taxation, tax reductions have not been applied to this most vulnerable group. If it were to be allocated there, then the government would have increased the percentage of the basic municipal tax deduction, because the municipal tax is the tax paid by everyone, even the most low-income benefits, those who do not have earned income. The Greens would have liked to make this tax reduction precisely because it would have targeted the most vulnerable. At the same time, we know that poverty and poverty and ill-being and ill-health often accumulate in the same people, and because of the cuts that the government has made — the increases in the amount of the allowance for medical and medical expenses, the removal of the allowance for celiac disease, the cuts in housing allowance are now coming, the contributions to social and health services have been increased — all have gone to the same people, so we have more and more people among us who are struggling to get through everyday life, the people who have to wonder whether to buy food or medicine, the people who regularly pick up their food from bread lines. Mr Laukkanen spoke here earlier about the fact that this government has now cut the allowance for food queues, cut off the activity that more and more Finns unfortunately depend on, and when we were talking in this Chamber last week about inequality or even today about whether we have poor people and who is low incomes, I have a strong feeling that quite a few of us do not know or recognize or even recognize the everyday life that is true to too many Finns, the everyday life of the poor and uninvolved low income, the everyday struggle for survival. I think we should have some sensitivity in this room. If we do not personally know such people, we should get to know those stories or at least be able to read the statistics so that this 100-year-old civilised country called Finland will take care of everyone, that no one gets lost here, that everyone can survive their lives even at a reasonable or bearable level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u379	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen has already tabled a motion of censure, in line with the protest of the Social Democrats, and this motion is very much to be welcomed and is telling us very well why the Social Democrats have had to leave this government with a deep breath of mistrust, and I support that motion of censure made by Mrs Kymäläinen to vote against the government's mistrust. Mr President! The main messages of the SDP in this debate today have been threefold: First of all, the main message is that it is strange that when there was no economic growth and exports did not yet pull out, the government could afford to make a decision when the 2015 Government Programme was decided that people with purchasing power need special support and recovery, and that people with high incomes in society in particular wanted support. And this decision cost the economy a balance by going through the purses of people who, however, are particularly little in society getting daily bread. A rather cold policy is that the alternative to the government was that, in practice, the top four deciles received positive, plus revenue, and those who did not and do not have, for these most vulnerable people in society, were decided to pay for economic adjustment. This choice of values is the choice that has increased inequality in Finland. According to the latest studies, two thirds of Finns believe that income inequality has increased in Finnish society. And if that is the case, the central question is that it is not pointless here to be concerned about Finland's inequality, and these political choices that have been made will be costly for Finland. It has to be said that Finnish society is not so much faced with this economic sustainability gap, which is, of course, taken seriously by the Social Democrats, but with the social sustainability gap that arises from inequality and non-participation. One might say that the sustainability gap in participation and exclusion can be one of the biggest reductions in this society that will have to be paid after this reign. And that's a great pity. We Social Democrats assume that, once again, when there are fruits of economic growth, we will act differently from what the government proposes. The government is suggesting that the line does not change. What was agreed in 2015 has been betonised and the top four deciles will lose the fruits of the economic growth of this society. It does seem wrong that the six lowest deciles that paid this bill when it was difficult would not regain the justice that is being asked. And in this regard, we are calling for justice to be restored now: what has then been cut will be restored now that it is the fruit of economic growth again. Mr President! Our second point today has been to make the reforms now, for God's sake. This is a serious social issue where room for manoeuvre is to be built. And I agree with some of the other speakers here, those who are starting to think that raising the employment rate is one of the most important objectives of a welfare society for the next decades. And that employment rate should not only be raised to 72, which is the government's objective, but much higher, and that is why we have today challenged this sitting government to make these reforms which will increase the employment rate. We have tabled five different reforms today, such as extending compulsory education. As a single measure, it alone would have brought this government’s objective into play, since even in the lowest scale comparisons it would be possible to increase the employment rate by 3 percentage points by extending compulsory education alone,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u380	Mr President! After many difficult years, the Finnish economy has finally started to rise, and I agree with the representatives of the government parties that the income tax reductions implemented during the first half of the parliamentary term have had a positive impact on the development of employment. These moderate reductions in income tax have been the best contribution to the government's economic policy, but unfortunately the government's budget package for next year cannot be praised very much. It contains a few good details, but since it is cutting off the most disadvantaged and low-income citizens, even though the Finnish economy finally has light, the whole is a disappointment for us Finns. Mr President! Among other things, the government has decided to freeze the National Pensions Index, which makes it very difficult for many low-income pensioners to cope with their daily lives. In addition, the government will abolish the tax deduction on children, which this year has brought many families EUR 400 more money to the purse. So next year the taxation of families with children will increase with this government decision. A particularly harsh measure is the so-called active model of unemployment security designed by the government, which punishes unemployed people for their failure to seek employment by cutting unemployment benefit by just under 5%. Even the comments of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the constitutional problems contained in this motion have not been taken seriously in the ranks of the government parties. Mr President! With such a punishment policy, the government will eventually drive the unemployed, humiliated to the livelihood hatch. There must be better and more humane ways of improving employment. The Finns have put forward measures to improve the operating conditions of the smallest companies. These include piloting the Estonian business tax model in SMEs employing additional staff. In addition, the conditions for employment of the unemployed must be improved not only by further reducing income tax but also by providing advice and additional training aimed at employment. The regional employment trials currently under way have shown that personal contact with the unemployed is very important. Of course, the work must be paid decently. In spite of this, the Finance Minister, Orpo, said last week that the wages of less skilled workers should in future be flexible downwards. In practice, Minister Orpo's statement suggests that the government is planning to take action to break general ties. That is something that we Finns cannot accept under any circumstances. Mr President! Something about the changed value base of the current government also tells us that last year, when the Finns were the Finnish Government Party, the Committee on Finance granted additional funding to organisations providing food aid. Mr Laukkanen has just raised this issue here and I fully agree with him that this tens of thousands of people with disabilities should definitely have been supported this year. Of course, bread queues are not part of a civilised state, but society should be able to provide adequate livelihoods for its most vulnerable citizens. However, the work carried out by aid organisations is very respectable and should be supported by society if it is not otherwise able to take care of the disadvantaged. Mr President! Unfortunately, there is no sign of such assistance to the most vulnerable citizens in this year's budget or in the report of the Committee on Finance. Mr Laukkanen rightly called for a parliamentary debate on humane decision-making, and I fully agree with him. Yes, every representative should at times look in the mirror and wonder whether we have made fair decisions here in Parliament, and that also applies to this budget. I am afraid, however, that it may be difficult for many representatives of the government to get an eye on these decisions tonight, if they honestly dare to reflect on them, then the government has failed in its task of acting in behalf of the poorest citizens. On the basis of the arguments put forward, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Mere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u381	Mr President! There has been a lot of good discussion today about Finland's economy, the situation in Finland and, of course, next year's estimates of revenue and expenditure. However, I myself would perhaps like to put a little more into a bigger picture of what Finland now looks like today and next year and perhaps a little later, actually from three perspectives. The first aspect is education, the second is well-being and the third is vitality — that is, the three elements that make up the Nordic welfare state and how we are known. The fact is that Finland has fallen in the OECD statistics, for example, in research and development efforts against our competitors. Finland goes down and other countries go up. The same applies to education, in other words, to the very essence of civilisation that many Members have spoken about here today. The cuts in vocational education — 190 million, 18,000 starting places — are things that may not be visible now, but they will be visible years later. Another big entity is well-being. Today, my colleague, Mrs Rinne, asked me whether it was medicine or food. Unfortunately, the government is not an invention of the SDP, but it is a matter of ordinary people asking me which one I would get today or tomorrow. So the choice is not about the SDP, it is about government policy. The social welfare and health care sector appears rather strange if you look at Finland from an international perspective. Nowhere else in Europe is as much incorporated as at present in Finland. The fact that it is not on people's terms but on the terms of large health care companies is something that is difficult to understand elsewhere in Europe. After all, the real cost of the wars depends on how we get access to the services of the elderly, the people with many problems and the people who are seriously ill. They make up to 90% of the cost. Now, however, the government is not focusing on these people, i.e. those potential savings, but on how to make public social and health care as private and business as possible. Thirdly, a few words about vitality, that is, how Finland makes revenue, what the revenue side is in the statement of revenue and expenditure. International growth is now drawing Finland, but for how long? What happens to competitiveness when Finland’s expertise collapses? There has been much talk here that Finland is now investing in transport routes, Finland is creating new connections. In fact, Finland is falling once again from the European Union's TEN-T funding, that is, from the core network that we have wanted. Mr President! Even Sweden is not supporting Finnish projects. Why, good government? Tell me that. When, for example, would the current government get the Turku-Helsinki train, an hourly connection from Helsinki to Tampere? When would Finland be at the level where Sweden, Norway and Denmark are already at? According to the current calculations, the Sipilä Government would have made the Turku-Helsinki train in 2038 — but that is also the timetable. The Coalition Party has also argued here that the SDP is not a party of entrepreneurs, the SDP does not understand entrepreneurship. I would just like to say that there is no such thing as a small-time entrepreneur's party in the government. In our alternative budget, we invested in paying the first employee and raising the VAT threshold to 30,000. These are concrete things for an ordinary worker. The second thing is, of course, if you earn hundreds of thousands of dollars and are a large net asset, but it is not a small entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u382	Mr President! If we lighten up a little, we might wonder whether these social democrats' speeches are due to income differentials because of the fact that your last season's activity produced 100,000 unemployed and, as a result, income levelled slightly when people were on the unemployment card. Is that what you think is desirable? Well, of course, it also employs a few bureaucrats in the labour administration. Seriously, it's just that working makes more money than not working. That is why it is important to increase employment. But apart from the two things I mentioned in my previous speech, which the government never talks about, there is also the third thing that is being silenced, namely the non-realism behind the billions of dollars that are expected of the war. I could take my example of the homeland and its hospital district, Eksote. It is also quite advanced in the integration of services in terms of savings. I heard that calculatedly, there would have been a relative saving of up to half of what is currently the goal of the war even before there has been such a thing. However, all these proposed social models, including those now before us, would in fact take back our medical districts and decentralise the integration that has already been achieved, not to mention what such confusion with health districts would do to the services of citizens, to their equality, to their accessibility, that is to say, to the detriment. In my view, this dismantling of a functioning public model would also lead to an increase in costs from the mid-term point of view of the cost savings achieved compared with the objectives of social protection. It must be clear that such social solutions, which break up already-completed models, will not achieve the savings of billions of dollars that the government has undoubtedly lowered in its budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u383	Madam President! Representative Skinner woke up from that toilet to criticise the government for not having a small business perspective. Listen, Mr Skinner: the repeal of the Act on Business Time, the introduction of a payment-based VAT account, the increase in the household allowance, the increase in the reduction in the tax on entrepreneurship, the reduction in the taxation of generational changes, the reduction in the taxation of labour by hundreds of millions of years, the extension of the deductible of the loss of disposal to other capital income, the gradual reduction of the car tax, the total reform of the Act on Procurement, the extension of the probation period for a new employee, the reduction of the obligation to take back a former employee, more flexible fixed-term contracts, the reimbursement of employee's responsibilities in the event of annual leave. Mr Skinner, are you saying that these reforms have not been greeted in the entrepreneurial field by a positive reception? I say that entrepreneurs consider these to be very good reforms, and I also say that this list is by no means exhaustive. The government has done much more for entrepreneurs. But let me also say that you are not all bad in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u390	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Copra. You're partly right. There's a lot of good in there, and thank you for that. But let's go to those weak points. The Procurement Act. I was doing it myself in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It didn't turn out as good as it could have been for small entrepreneurs. It is a fact, and it is also acknowledged by the government. Even today, it favours big, big players. Secondly, entrepreneurship in general: you still do not understand the difference between a single entrepreneur, a little bigger and medium-sized or something in between. When you talk about entrepreneurship, please understand for a moment who is the sole entrepreneur and what is the bigger company and so on. I suggested to the previous Finance Minister, Mr Stubb, that you at last change the taxation of entrepreneurs in such a way that, for example, personal entrepreneurs, like employees, can look retrospectively at the tax situation, and do not tax them ex ante. Nothing's happened here either. So we're just gonna start with a preliminary list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u391	Mr President! As background information, I myself am a former sole entrepreneur and at the moment employ about 15 people in my IT company in Lappeenranta, which is why I claim, on this basis, that there is an understanding of small and self-employed people in the parliamentary group and also by other entrepreneurs. And yes, in the list I have just listed, they are all reforms and changes which specifically improve the conditions and competitiveness of the self-employed and small entrepreneurs. Consider, for example, an extended probation period and an employee’s illness: The biggest obstacle to employment for a small and single entrepreneur or a two-person company is the fear that what if a new employee gets sick or what if he doesn't know how and has to get rid of the employee? In the old days, it was not easy to resolve, but these reforms will also help to resolve this issue. Competitiveness in this respect has improved and, at a lighter and smaller threshold, new people can be employed and it will improve employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u392	Madam President! Sitat: "My mother is a single parent who suddenly became ill in 2011, and then she was unable to return to work. Living three people on disability pension is a time of art, and it is difficult to pay for the expenses of my upper secondary school studies." This is what today's youth says. I can only imagine what goes through that young person’s mind when he wonders how a mother receiving a small disability pension can take care of the family’s life. Here's two points. The second is that it is precisely because of these examples that we need an extension of compulsory education in order to make secondary education genuinely free of charge. Today's high school studies with their equipment are already costing families several thousand euros. There is another aspect here, which is why we need to pay attention to basic income and small pensions or index cuts. Last week, we left the opposition with the issue of inequality, and the government did not fall, as we know, but that issue did not go to waste, because some of the representatives of the government parties understood and remained behind the debate that was taking place to think that Finland was not ready either. Mr Kaikonen said in the paper that he hoped that the government would come up with some more solutions to help the most vulnerable. He acknowledges that there are many low - income pensioners and poor families with children who need help. That is exactly the way, good — more of this thinking and more measures to reduce these problems. So it is good that at least someone in the government has heard and understood why we are making such a fuss here. We bring the sound of the field, the quiet one. A lot of Finns are doing well, and that is a good thing. But that is not enough when the life expectancy of a rich and poor man is almost 11 years apart.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u393	Mr President! Today we have discussed the option of the Social Democrats, and it has to be said that, where we are doing these major reforms — which Mr Kopra also thanked for in terms of compulsory education — we would also be prepared to invest in growth. Here too, Mr Kopra and I share similar ideas, and I thank you for your progress in thinking that compulsory education should also be brought to the present day. I think it tells us that you are on the line of reform. That's what you'd wish for other people. We are concerned about where growth can be achieved in the future, but instead of reducing these taxes, we are prepared to invest more in education and research and in the management of employment, because we believe that it is the best medicine that Finland now needs. Education would increase productivity and would also be the best insurance against unemployment and risks to the labour market. In this way, education would also be an effective means of reducing inequalities and keeping everyone involved in society. In this respect, the main contributions we make in this alternative budget and in the Socialist protest No 1 are, in fact, precisely investments in education. And when the government cuts a billion euros per year from education — which is more than cumulatively calculated during the last term of government — in this regard we would invest in combating these cuts and make sure that education in Finland is genuinely increased from the point of view that education is the best historical proof that we have had in our time to make the right decisions. Education increases people's chances of employment, and this is how we would invest in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u394	Mr President! In that worthy list of Mr Copra, I noticed one thing. All the government reforms listed combine the fact that they are, in one way or another, away from the workers, in some way undermine the status of the worker or the conditions of his work. I would therefore like to ask how we could develop measures that would be fair to workers and would not undermine the conditions of employment and, at the same time, improve the opportunities for entrepreneurship and employment. Could you think of taking a risk to society in these matters? Of course it will cost money, but so will people who are regarded as unemployed. Would it be better to give people the opportunity to work and to try a little bit at the risk of society than to patronize them and to employ the bureaucracy of the employment office that has just been mentioned, which is ultimately of no benefit to anyone? As far as education is concerned, especially vocational training, I have heard from entrepreneurs that there are no professionals today who would have the courage to pay a professional salary. There is no know-how, there is no basic skills in working life. What should we do about this? In my opinion, at least the solution is not a mechanical increase in compulsory education. The solution is rather that in vocational schools local education is raised in such a way that the hours actually correspond to the rhythm that must be used to in working life, and that it teaches the real hard skills with which the work should be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u395	Madam President! While I support the Christian Democrats and the representative The motion of censure put forward by Mr Östman, which relates to our alternative budget, particularly concerns family policy, children and young people. Our most important capital for the future of society is children and young people, and this whole also has my greatest concern in view of this budget for the coming year. Large groups of children in schools and day-care centres undermine the ability of our highly skilled and world-class trained staff to take account of the child and support development and learning, and we therefore propose reducing the maximum group sizes for children over 3 years of age, as well as special support for basic education to reduce teaching groups. At the same time, I would like to highlight the fact that secondary education has become increasingly expensive for students due to growing material and book costs, and these costs need to be moderated. The low birth rate is partly linked to the fact that it is difficult in practice to combine study and family. Many families who study live below the poverty line. The EUR 75 increase in the government budget proposal is a step in the right direction and a positive reform, but it is very small compared to the need and the financial situation of students. Our parliamentary group is proposing a doubling of the custody race. The well-being of families with children is the basis for the well-being of society as a whole. We need a child-friendly atmosphere, we need a long-term family policy, and the solutions that strengthen the position of families with children can increase the faith of families in their own survival and also encourage a larger number of children. Child benefit is the most important family policy benefit. It equals the distribution of income between childless families and families with children, but its real value has fallen by as much as 30 per cent since 94 and will continue to weaken the purchasing power of child supplements next year. That is why we propose a compensatory level increase in child allowances. There has been a lot of debate in this Chamber on the issue of family leave reform. I think it is important that, when and if reform is carried out, the freedom of choice of families should not be restricted. On the contrary, reform can, if desired, be carried out in a way that increases freedom of choice for families and brings flexibility to urgent family needs. Perhaps the main concern at the moment, this evening, relates to the debate on alcohol policy under way in the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health. We know that in practice we have 70,000 children living in a family where the ability of both or one parent to parent and care for children to limit the parent’s alcohol problem is very fatal, and I think it is now very fatal if decisions are made to increase alcohol problems. That is why I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will be wise and long-term in reforming alcohol policy so as not to increase the availability of alcohol or to bring down the price of alcohol, which, unfortunately, would result in a change in the percentage for alcohol in retail sales. At the same time, it must also be said that it is very important for us to be able to ensure that we continue to have a responsible alcohol policy, which specifically takes into account public health, and that, therefore, we also have a monopoly on alcohol policy, is an important cornerstone and basis for alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u396	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kopra for his honest and good answers and wish you every success in the name of the future of the National Coalition, because you clearly understand what is a small entrepreneur's business and what the problems are. I hope the government, the whole government, and the government program would feel the same way. But the facts are facts, and I'll add one more thing to your list, so why don't you just take the entrepreneur's pension reform? It's from 1962, as I recall, so that's where the government could get to work. But just a few more words about the fairway projects. That's what we talked about. It is a great thing that the government is making the Hailuoto bridge and getting a little deeper ports. But that big picture is still missing, so hopefully now you have a vision because the clock is ticking in Brussels, the clock is ticking in Helsinki and the clock is ticking all over. But, Mr President, in general terms, I would like to address the situation and indeed the debate which was held here yesterday on the role of the Constitutional Committee and the Constitutional Committee in general. So I am speaking as a member of the committee. It is unfortunate that the Constitutional Committee is beginning to become politicised. It is unfortunate that the Constitutional Committee is making a policy because it is not in the interests of Finland, it is not in the interests of Parliament and it is not in the interests of anyone. Until now, we have been able to do a good job in court, as we should, and hopefully this will continue, because otherwise this year and the next year and the next one will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u397	Mr President! Mrs Mäkelä rightly drew attention to the fact that, in her very good speech just now, improving the position of entrepreneurs — and it should be improved — should not undermine the position of workers. The options put forward by the Finns in their alternative budget, such as the piloting of the Estonian business tax model in employment-based SMEs, are therefore aimed at making both the employer and the employee benefit from these reforms. Parliament's decisions last year are a good example of a change in the law which allowed the transition to a payment-based VAT account in the smallest companies. This reform delayed government tax revenues by only a few months, while at the same time helping a large number of small businesses and small businesses to continue their business without a bank loan and offering new entrepreneurs a good opportunity to start up a business with a very small initial capital. The business associations have therefore commended this decision last year. There will continue to be a need for more simple but effective reforms of this kind that are beneficial to all parties, promoting business activity. On the other hand, we do not need any reform that would contrast the interests of the entrepreneur with those of the worker. By working together, we must move forward, not by confrontation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u398	Madam Speaker! The representative, Mäkelä, pointed out that these government reforms to promote small entrepreneurship had somehow resulted in a worker's loss. I do not think that is the case at all. For example, this extension of the probation period and the weakening of the obligation to take back means that people get better jobs when the threshold gets lowered. So the alternative is that a person is either unemployed or at work, and if this threshold is higher, it does not apply to those people who are already at work, but to those who might get a job now, when it is not as high a risk to an entrepreneur as before or this risk is better controlled. As far as taxation is concerned, we must remember that the middle-income earners pay most of the taxes that finance this welfare society and income transfers. This tax and tax progress must be reduced, the amount of money they are forced to take must be reduced. We must remember that taxation must be reduced. It promotes growth and therefore it also rains on low incomes. As the economy grows, you can afford to pay income transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u399	Mr President! In that regard, Mr Kopra is right that it is always better to work than to be unemployed. We can agree on that. But I have to say that, unfortunately, there are not as easy solutions to this family policy debate as we often want to. In other words, whether people start a family is an issue of atmosphere and attitude, first and foremost, before anything else. No circumstances in themselves form anyone’s family, and no circumstances prevent it from being formed. This is best proved by the fact that in countries where it is the worst in the world, the family size is the largest. It is not the misery or lack of prospects that has prevented the establishment of a family; it is about other things. After the attitude, it is a matter of other basics of human life. Above all, the job is: young adults need to get to work to build their lives, especially for some kind of permanent employment rather than for short-term and shredded jobs. Talking about family leave reform is completely empty, unless young people, including women, have the jobs to be employed in, and families themselves have to choose which family leave model is best for them. It should not be dictated from above by society. After that, it is about living, the space that the family needs around them, the price of living here in the capital region and in the growth centers quite high. On the other hand, there are no jobs in the same way. Equal payments are a problem, real estate taxes, electricity transfers, other things. Driving is needed in the lives and everyday lives of families with children now that the service network has been cut down — driving costs. Mr President! In all these problems, the Finns have good solutions in their alternative budget. Maintaining child allowance, among other things, would greatly help the current situation of families with children, and many more things are available and more are being developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u400	Madam President! It's late, but it's important. Today there has been a feedback debate in this House on the budget for next year, and I must say that, in the words of Mr Viitanen, I have been amazed at the way in which our Green Left has reacted to this economic situation, which means that there has been a complete change at the time when the Minister for Finance was in the hands of the Social Democrats, even though the coalition was also involved in that government. At the moment, there is at least one person present in this Chamber who has been involved in the government negotiations at the time of the decision to take that big line of economic policy in the previous period. It is no secret that, at the request of the Social Democrats, it was then wanted to record that if savings are made, tax evasion must be done in the same way, that is to say, the so-called 'fifty-fifty' thinking. And what did that mean for the economy? This meant that we were left in a daunting situation, even in a recession, and we were not able to get involved with other European countries when they were already on a growth path. For us, this tightening tax policy, which the Social Democrats still admired, drove us into a situation where we did not make the economy grow, we did not make employment rise, we did not make unemployment fall. And even today, when Mrs Kiuru, for example, has spoken, she talked about deciles and the Gini coefficients, forgetting that when they felt that their Gini coefficients and deciles were there, there were 100,000 new unemployed in this country. If there is now a slight change in the Gini coefficient to these income differences — whether it is EUR 3 which actually comes from an increase in the price of the pack of tobacco — as Mr Copra has just pointed out in his own good speech, then, in fact, if it is put honestly on the right scale, our income differentials have not increased, not during the last government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u411	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u412	Madam President! I would like to raise a point that has not now been in the debate, but there was a debate here last spring on a citizens' initiative calling for the legalisation of euthanasia. Together, many parliamentary groups expressed strong support for the development of hospice care, both legislation and resources. Hospice treatment is indeed more technologically advanced than ever in the history of Finland or of all mankind. Despite guidance, improved recommendations and these technical capabilities, access to skilled hospice care is still too random. In order for people who die, not only to be born but also to die, to have equal rights to a good life before death, hospice treatment must be available to all those who need it. Currently, there are too large differences between municipalities in quality and availability. It is quite clear that what the government is now doing for the coming year will not be enough to satisfy this need. We therefore propose an increase of EUR 20 million in our option for the coming year's budget in order to secure this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u413	Mr President! I stayed to think about that logic of Mr Heinonen. It would have been great if you had been involved in this major debate on the budget, because there was actually quite a similar debate on that point of view. I therefore ask you whether you consider it right, when you said this almost verbatim, that when there was no growth in the world economy and Finland did not receive any traction from the world, it was the fault of the last government, it was therefore the fault of the Katainen Government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u416	Mr President! Congressman Kiuru, although it is late, I would like you to quote correctly. I did not say in my own speech that the economy did not grow elsewhere and that is why it did not grow in Finland either. The economy grew in Europe in other countries, but Finland did not catch up with it, and that was the reason why we were just blackmailed. That was the reason, and that is why I wanted to bring it up, because it is so clear that this difference is being seen, which was precisely because the idea of taxation was being translated into giving room for the good economic growth food that has now been achieved. Now that it has been done correctly, moderately, for example, the green left was opposed to a reduction in the car tax. It was said that this is absurd that, in this situation, when the economy does not grow and we take debt, tax is to be calculated. There has now been no criticism since, in fact, the tax revenue has increased by calculating the tax rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u421	Mr President! Just a few more words for that tax debate: It is important to note that taxation is not an end in itself; it is a means of raising funds for the state so that society can be run around so that transfers to the poor can be made. There's got to be some balance. You don't get to die by taxing anything. Raising taxes across a certain limit will no longer produce income, but will only dwindle.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u424	Mr President! I would like to use the two-minute response to Mr Heinonen's logic here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u429	Mr President! As the evening passes, Mrs Kiuru now misquotes previous speeches in each speech. I have never said anywhere that the Coalition Party would never be prepared to increase taxes. I have not spoken in this way; it can be checked in the parliamentary minutes. This is why, for example, the government program recorded that there is a possibility, if the situation so requires, that the property tax will be tightened. Fortunately, however, economic policy works, and that is why the objectives set for that increase in the lower limit of real estate tax were met without an increase in tax. If the Social Democrats were in power, they would have loved that tax so much too,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u434	Mr President! Mr Heinonen mentioned the role of families with children in the past, and he particularly promoted this reduction in early childhood education fees, which, admittedly, is a good and positive decision for families with children, but not entirely without problems, as has just been the case here. First of all, it actually reduces the revenue from the municipalities' contributions. The Government Programme states that the municipalities will be fully compensated by the government for all additional obligations imposed on them, and I believe that this is also the case, i.e. when the payment producer is now reduced by the decision of the state and parliament, they should also be replaced. Well, the government originally suggested using three ways to compensate for these revenues, i.e. to increase the central government share of basic services, to increase the share of municipalities in corporate tax revenue, and this famous increase in real estate tax thresholds, which was, in fact, notorious. Fortunately, the government decided to abandon this, the latter, under great pressure from the opposition, but the problem remains that this 25 million which it had to bring to the municipalities is now still uncompensated and seems to be uncompensated in this government budget proposal. I do find this extremely problematic. Even in accordance with the Government Programme, or at least in the spirit that is included in it, municipalities should receive these revenues from somewhere else, such as an additional increase in the central government share of basic services or an increase in the share of corporate taxes in municipalities. In addition, of course, this abolition of the tax on children is still its own chapter, which has also been discussed a great deal today. It will generate income losses of up to EUR 400 per year for families, and even if these reductions in early childhood education contributions come into effect, they will not help, especially in those families,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u435	Mr President! Mr Heinonen pointed out that, on one point, you were prepared to increase taxation and said that it would have been a property tax. Then you were able to give up because the opposition pushed you very hard on this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u438	Mr President! In the Minutes, everyone can see that this government has not stopped child-reduction, but that it has actually been decided by the Social Democratic Minister for Finance, Antti Rinne. His presentation has been made so that it ends.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u445	Mr President! The representative Mäkelä mentioned the tax policies and the main principles of the Finns, and quite rightly, as he said, the Finns of Peru want to reduce taxes on earnings, especially on small and medium-income earners, and at the same time, in our alternative budget, we have also proposed bringing the taxation of pensioners on the same line as employees. We have not only the draft budget but also, in due course, in the Committee on Budgets, we have proposed legislative amendments to it. But Mr Heinonen said recently that the previous government decided to make this child allowance temporary. It is, in principle, true, indeed, it did happen, it is read in the history books.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u450	Mr President! It is good that the representative: Savio went through this history and I'll get right to the point. Here a representative of the Government Party states that the child reduction was abolished and explains that, however, a reduction in early childhood education fees is being implemented — which the government did not support in the first place, because you brought a proposal to Parliament to increase early childhood education fees. Now that, on the basis of the enormous pressure from the opposition, the government finally gave up, in the name of employment, the increase in early childhood education fees and now that you are calculating these contributions, as was hoped for as part of the path to free early childhood education, this reduction in early childhood education fees applies to 113,000 families, but the child allowance actually affects 425,000 families, 770,000 people. These things don't go together, do they? It should also be noted that two thirds of these beneficiaries were schoolchildren or families with children aged 16 to 17. In this regard, I find it unreasonable to claim that the reduction in early childhood education fees would compensate for the child reduction voted on in Parliament and the continuation of which was no longer supported by the government parties. There's no point squeezing about whether or not there's a law that's fixed-term. This is all about the fact that during the last term of the government it was not a permanent one, because the Coalition Party was involved. Now you have brought this to an end, because your ideological family is closer to your thinking. But it brings a gap especially for low-income Finnish families, and it is pointless to talk about the fact that no one's taxation is tightening, because for these families, for these families, taxation is tightening. That's not the government's concern, because it's not the government's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u451	Mr President! It has to be said that Mr Kiuru was quite right in that figure of child reduction and the effectiveness of early childhood education fees, how many people they are targeting. As far as I am concerned, there is also the ideological problem here — if we consider that the reduction in early childhood education contributions would compensate for the abolition of child-reduction — that it would actually put pressure on families not on home care but on day care, which, in my opinion, is a completely wrong ideological approach in the sense that the family must have the freedom to choose the appropriate form of care for its own life. It is also important to note that this child allowance also affects those families with older children, perhaps teen-age children, who may cause more spending on families than smaller children, so I do not think that this compensation is going to work either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u452	Mr President! It is true that, in terms of the number of families, the child allowance was targeted at more families than this solution, which is now being made, but this solution, which is now being made, is much more effective and significant in its size. Early childhood education fees will be reduced by 70 million in two, in fact three weeks, on 1 January 2018. In three weeks, 6,700 Finnish families will be included in free early childhood education and every single middle-income family will have their contributions calculated. The early childhood education fees of an average-income family fall by over EUR 1200 per year. It's a big investment where it's most needed, and it's a big help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u457	Mr President! I drew attention to this at the end of Heinonen’s speech
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u462	Mr President! Now that you described your own ministerial career and said that you were working to improve employment, you failed to tell us what the results were. Do you want me to tell you? 100,000 new unemployed. But now the taxation of labour has been reduced. It has contributed significantly to the creation of new jobs in this country. The cost of parenting has been adjusted for the first time. This government did so by giving women - dominated sectors a share of what burden they bear in the situation of families with children. The cost of parenting has been balanced so that new jobs have been created. Significant deregulation has taken place. The opening hours of shops have been liberalised, which has given rise to significant new vitality and growth in this country. And now, hopefully, alcohol legislation will also be moderately reformed and opened up, creating new space for Finnish barley production, Finnish small breweries, Finnish tourism, the restaurant industry, where in fact there would be easily thousands of more jobs available, as we would only remember to give room for that growth. And I can promise you that this reform will not be caught up in the assembly either. We have gladly been Finland's leading reformer party. We have seen that if we are satisfied, we will clot, and we must look to the future and move on. It is now apparent that we are seeing an increase in the economy, an increase in employment, a reduction in unemployment. Mr Kaikonen said that this economic policy is now working. That was well said, and it's true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u463	We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u464	Presentation of Section 22 on the President of the Republic
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u465	Mr President! When the presidential election is near here, the President will certainly be interested and in the way in which this important task has been carried out. One question about an election machine when I looked at it — whether you would be prepared to reduce your fee or raise it, asked the presidential candidates — was so said President Niinistö of the Republic that this is what he has done. Indeed, this budget book tells us that during Niinistö the premium has not been increased. From his own performance it was calculated from EUR 160,000 to a fifth, 20 percent he wanted to reduce his own commission to 126,000. And now it looks like we're going in the same century. In fact, next year it would have risen to EUR 155,000, but what did the President of the Republic do? He said no, he would be happy to continue with the same compensation of EUR 126,000 that will come to him. In fact, one correction would be necessary here. That kind of surgery has not been made to compensate retired presidents. Of course, that might be proportionate. Is it true that at the moment... At least very close to each other are those allowances for the working president, the president in office, and the retired presidents. Hopefully, at some point, it will be fixed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u466	Mr President! This was a rather interesting opening of the debate, and I would like to say that we have already gone a long way in the populism of the coalition. It is worth recalling the situation in which the new president began. He had been presented with an increase in his salary. Do not point out that he, as if consciously had cut his own salary significantly compared with his predecessors. It was a raise and a plan to bring the President's salary to the present day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u469	President! That decision had been made and he wanted to drop his own fee when he became president in 2012, at the 2006 level, i.e. EUR 126,000, where it has now been for six years, and it seems that it will continue to be, and that is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u471	Mr President! Now that these pensions of former Presidents have been mentioned, perhaps so much can be said that, now that the debate is taking place in this Parliament on a rather disproportionate retirement pension for former parliamentarians and former ministers, I would welcome a debate on whether the pensions of former Presidents are reasonable and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-13-ps-137.u472	Presentation of Section 23 on the Prime Minister’s Office
