ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision is now made by Ville Niinistö and others. on the intermediate issue of the consequences of cuts in vocational education and training and the inequalities in education. The debate on the interim issue ended at the session on 15 March 2017. With the support of Mr Sanna Marin, Ville Niinistö has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u3	Mr President! The government's proposal concerns the adoption of national provisions supplementing the Europol Regulation of the European Union by the European Parliament and the Council. The EU Regulation is currently in force as it stands and cannot be explained or clarified by national regulation. The EU Member State is already in a position to allow direct contacts between the competent authorities and Europol, and this should be the case. In this Government proposal, it is proposed that such direct connections be allowed in Finland. According to the survey, this is already possible in Finland and the procedure has proven to be effective. So nothing needs to be changed functionally. The committee noted that Europol's funding had already been transferred from national funding to the European Union budget, so the draft law has no significant financial implications. The assessment also shows that the impact on the activities of the authorities is limited. The Central Criminal Police will continue to act as Europol’s national unit and the Data Protection Supervisor as a national supervisory authority. Although the changes in activity and other things are limited, I consider the proposal necessary and appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u4	Mr President! This proposal has been discussed unanimously and I think it is also necessary. But I just want to draw attention to the future of Europol in this context. Knowing the threats we have in terms of security throughout Europe, for example with regard to terrorism, it is very important that Europol should continue to be operational, because it is very important for a small country, such as Finland, that we receive information and that we can share information. In this regard, there has been some concern that the large Member States have not been quite as eager to share this information, and now Britain's resignation from the European Union will be a particular concern. It is still unclear how British cooperation on security issues will be organised in the future. It is highly desirable that they continue to work very closely with Europol in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u5	Mr President! There is a very active debate on the future of the European Union, and certainly the EU is at a crossroads in many ways. But it is true that the cooperation between these law enforcement authorities, the police and other criminal law enforcement authorities is certainly the sensible and necessary cooperation of the Union, the fact that really hard crime, cross-border crime, repulsive things, drugs, trafficking in human beings, serious economic crimes, and sensible proposals in this sector are certainly to be welcomed. It is good that we have made progress on this project here in Finland. Of course, we must hope that these cooperation projects, including here in the area of internal security and police crime prevention, will always be such concrete and sensible projects. This European Public Prosecutor's Office, the EPPO, has also been before our committees, and there is, of course, little doubt as to whether it will bring anything new or if it is just bureaucracy. There is no point in bringing bureaucracy, but there is only more sensible cooperation on internal security. It is certainly something that the EU should focus on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u7	Mr President! This proposal is justifiable in itself and I have no comment or departure from what the committee has said. But when it comes to financial supervision and then funds, attention should be paid to what is happening at a time. The Financial Supervisory Authority recently made quite a comment to Nordea that Nordea had not acted in an acceptable and correct way in its own investment operations. In particular, investment advice for older age groups had not sufficiently ensured that the risk level of investments was understood. What is positive is that the nation in the long run is prospering, even though the last few years have been difficult, and households are also becoming wealthy. It may not be too big, but it is justified in terms of the functioning of the investor and the economy, so that investment is very positive in terms of capital management. Then the question arises as to which rules of the game are to be applied in this matter. The fact is, after all, we have had a very high appreciation of the banks. They trust banks, the customer when he goes to the bank assumes that he will receive proper advice from the bank on his own investment activities. Well, now you can ask whether these guidelines are correct and adequate in this area of investment advice, i.e. whether the bank should take into account not only its own interests, which are sold, but also the interests of the customer and give advice in the best interests of the customer. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the United States, which has often been regarded as an example of a free market economy, there is legislation which obliges banks in their investment advice to tell matters from the point of view of the customer. I think it would be justified for Finnish legislation to be reinstated in this regard as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u8	Mr President! I think that this speech was important and raised one specific question which also puzzled me when I looked at and read the news. It is indeed the case that we are not necessarily all experts in the portfolio, but if there is such an asset as to be able to invest it in a reasonable way, it is of course very important that the customer can rely on the bank to provide the necessary information, provide appropriate advice, and that the customer understands the risks he is taking with his investment and so on. So this awareness of the level of risk is a very important issue for me too. This idea that there would become more and more of a certain obligation for the bank to think not only of its own interest but also of the customer's interest, seems to me to be a good idea and should be considered, because it is, however, a question of the investment wealth of ordinary people and a proper awareness of what it is doing. That is why I think that this subject, which has now been raised by Mr Heinäluoma, is quite right. It is very important that Finnish people continue to be able to rely on banks, banks, and that is why it is good to consider and take note of this correction and feedback from the Financial Supervisory Authority to Nordea about their activities. I hope that this will continue to be the subject of a return and further development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u9	Mr President! In my own experience, there has been a worrying increase in practical information where banks have not acted in the best interests of the customer when providing investment advice. These are here in the older age group, not always told about the risks involved in investing, and then even small deposits or investments, a few ten thousand euros in investment, have led the citizen to realise that suddenly these risks have come to pass and that there is not necessarily the nest egg left to protect the old day, for example, for unexpected health care expenditure. After all, the financial crisis highlighted this problem once again, when world development was something quite different from what had been foreseen. I also know a great deal about veterans of our wars who have been the subject of such poor advice and who have lost such wealth over the decades in this regard for a bad day, and were much disappointed. When the financial crisis hit, we did not have much of this debate, but now these problems come from other sources, too, come from the younger generation: the bank is calling for the exchange of existing, inherited small investments into new ones and does not tell us what the motive is — the motive is that the bank sells its own products, its own funds, which, of course, receive considerable benefits both in terms of sales commission and then in terms of annual management fees. When we have this old image of the bank doing my business, the bank is less seen as a marketing, self-interesting community because of our old tradition of good banking — I am talking about the time before the end of the 1980s —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u10	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy held a careful debate on this matter and consulted experts. Mr Heinäluoma is quite right in saying that the risks of various investment products have grown to an excessive degree as a result of the liberalisation of the money market. After all, back in the day, you can count on that investment in the bank, the money there, to survive. Of course, inflation ate it, but now we have new risks that come precisely from international investment to open financial markets. Here comes the risk, which unfortunately is not controlled in any way by us Finns. A good example of this could be explained even if the financial situation of Deutsche Bank today: it is more or less on its stomach recently and, without the German Federal aid, the result would probably have been even worse, even bankruptcy. This describes the situation in which the current financial markets have gone and these packaged investment products that are sold to different customers — precisely the case in which the Financial Supervisory Authority intervened — were related to such cases where the customer was not informed and the customer could not understand what the packaged investment product was about. This is the core in which the Finnish State should intervene more hard with regard to its own banks. As far as the rest of the world is concerned, there's nothing we can do. In any case, more attention needs to be paid to this issue in the European Union, so that the supervision of large banks is genuine and different when packages are made, and indeed there must be good guarantees in the back. Now we have a situation in which no one is responsible for anything and then, in the end, everything falls on the taxpayer, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u11	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma raised an important issue. There are not necessarily quite the same features here as when the currency was released and companies were making and often taking foreign exchange credits. It can certainly be seen afterwards that companies were then unaware of what would happen in the banking sector and what would be the end of the credit line if things were to end badly. It would now be particularly important that, in this situation raised by supervision, the customer should be aware of the risks involved, and this is the responsibility of the bank, because, as Mr Hoskonen said, citizens are given a variety of complex products to buy, but there is also the self-interest of the banks — products which are purely commercial, of course. It would be vital for each of us who receives advice from the bank to be given the advice so that everyone is aware of the risks involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u12	Mr President! As I have just said, this debate is very important, and if I have understood Mrs Hoskonen's speech correctly, then you in the committee have covered this problem and it is a very positive, good and important issue. Now we have to think about this from the big angle, the fulfillment of customer expectations, and also the fact that you can rely on the advice that the customer receives overall. If this is the case, however, that all the speakers here seem to agree with this problem and its need for a certain solution, then it could certainly be thought in the future that we will also come back to this matter by reviewing these practices, reviewing the rules of play and the rules of conduct and also the need to revise the legislation in this direction. Indeed, it certainly does not confirm today’s man’s sort of legal concept if you find that suddenly you have not received sufficient information and then investments have gone and property has gone. As Mr Heinäluoma said here, quite often many elderly people may have saved up, and it is certainly not very human that this should happen. It is good that: The Financial Supervisory Authority itself has intervened in this respect. With this very speech, however, I would have the courage to follow up on the fact that this issue would be considered and that the government could also, for its part, be able to launch some sort of investigation into the future of regulatory needs, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u13	Mr President! The problem is that this is obviously not resolved without something that obliges investment advisors, including banks, to take account of the interests of the customer. There will be more and more of these cases, and I am now going to ask whether we should not act now before we have the next economic crisis, in which an unpredictable development will take place. We have thousands of people who feel that they have received false advice, and on that basis, when they act with good trust, they have made unsuccessful investments. This is particularly regrettable when it comes to money that is necessary for people to be cared for and cared for, as is often the case with older people. So it has been saved for decades and then placed in accordance with the instructions of banks or other investment advisors, and it is thought that the money will be available if there are unexpected diseases and health care needs. This is also important because, in fact, we are gradually transferring this funding for care, care and care for the elderly to the people themselves. In other words, access to public services for the elderly is becoming increasingly difficult and, in order to get to the service sectors, quite a lot of money has to be paid. They are often between EUR 1500 and EUR 2000 easily, even more, per month. And if we are in a situation where people have no own wealth to ensure this good service or even reasonable service as an elderly person, then we are in a rather difficult situation. So let me come back to this question: should we not now take this legal route to work out? This example of a free market economy in the United States of America, an example of a so-called model country, seems to me to be worth exploring, to find out that investment advisors should give
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u14	Mr President! Citizens' confidence in society's anchor institutions is very important, and banks have been perceived as reliable anchor institutions in this way. The debate initiated by Mr Heinäluoma is very important for the citizens and for equality, and the question then, in most cases, also relates to the trust and conditions of older people in this issue of investment advice. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, attention has already been paid to this issue, as Mr Hoskonen said, particularly in the context of these packaging solutions, which leave very little clarity as to what products have in some way been embedded in it. This idea of returning to this issue in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, among other things, by raising it again and discussing it and considering it, would be very welcome. What solutions it will take — it might be important for us to return to the matter at the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and ask for the necessary opinions and expert consultations. I'd like to think it's nice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u15	Mr. Speaker! I must say that I was surprised myself when I saw the news that older people were not being misled, but they had not been made clear what the risks involved in their banking activities were. This is extremely worrying if confidence in banking is to be undermined. There are other cases here that raise questions: the activities of banks in connection with Panama papers, and some years ago there were some cases where people charged banks with practically all their assets going to certain types of papers. In other words, this is a matter that is worth considering and asking whether we have the arrangements and the regulations in place. It is a good thing that the banking supervision is investigating and investigating, but the question of whether the regulations are actually sufficient must be given serious consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u16	Mr President! In my view, even in the light of the debate on this point, the Financial Supervisory Authority should definitely take immediate action to propose an obligation for investment advisors to guarantee the customer's knowledge of the risks. I really would like it to be perhaps the next step, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy can take this matter on its own and become even more familiar with this problem, that what can be done quickly: I believe that the Financial Supervisory Authority is urged to require that banks be self-supervised by elements that ensure that the customer has all the knowledge. It is clear that the individual investment advisor also has his own interest in making these investments. That way his own salary is also based on their investment activities, but these things should not be inside the bank, but bank self-monitoring should guarantee that such things, say ugly, self-interesting, could not be tolerated but that banks themselves, within the framework of their self-monitoring, ensure that such elements should not be in this investment advice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u17	Mr President! Indeed, there are such cases, and there are also other people than the elderly. Let me take one example that has come to my own attention: It was a young person, a student. He had received a small number of shares as a legacy, and then, after they had been with him for some time, the bank gave an investment advice that it would be worth selling these shares and then investing them in new products. Well, anyway, these new products were, of course, bank funds. This person did so in accordance with the advice given, but before asking whether it is now certain that there will then be no harmful consequences for other matters, that he will receive proper study allowance and that he will not be punished in this way. And that's what they told him. Well, then it turned out that when these sales profits, the so-called sales profits, were realised — they were not, of course, real sales gains, because he had not bought himself, he had inherited — they actually began to influence student support. He lost his student allowance in this connection. In these cases — more and more of them — what happened here was that the bank’s first starting point was that it washes their hands on this matter, that is, that they have no responsibility for what is happening with regard to study aid, even though the customer had clearly asked whether there were any harmful consequences if it sold these shares as a legacy, a very small amount, and he had received the answer that there were no effects that it was worth selling. He then continued to discuss my advice with the bank and received compensation for this. But how many people in these matters even know how to turn to anyone? How many people accept this precisely because of what has been referred to here, including Mr Ihalainen, that the banks in particular have a good appreciation and a high level of confidence? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u18	Mr President! I should also like to thank Mr Heinäluomaa for raising this issue here. In fact, this debate immediately produced an important result in this, and I also appreciate the fact that Mr Ihalainen has spoken here, as did Mr Salolainen, and has suggested that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy should deal with this issue, and this certainly shows that it will return to this issue. Those examples are quite illustrative, as we have just heard, among other things. I am sure that this debate will also go to the Financial Supervisory Authority for information, and greetings there on what can still be steeled in this regard. But I also hope that, in the future, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy takes this matter up and deals with it, then the government will also receive greetings, that if it does, and when it is certain that there are needs, then the government will intervene as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-17-ps-25.u19	Mr President! While there is still time, I will take this opportunity to refine this idea. When this is a matter of interest to the general public, I would think that if the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs were prepared to hold a public hearing here, it would be an excellent form of work. This is of interest to people, and it would at the same time serve as positive advice and would pay attention to this issue. I believe that the Audit Committee would be interested, if necessary, in acting as a partner in this, in organising such a public consultation. This could involve public consultation of institutions providing both financial supervision and investment advice, but also, for example, the Consumer Union, which has also received these complaints. I hope that we can still have this on this spring's agenda.
