ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion. A referral debate on this subject will take place until 5 p.m. If the list of speakers is not completed within the given time, the item will be suspended and the debate will continue if necessary after the other items of the agenda have been discussed. If the debate ends before 5 p.m., move on to the next order of business, 4. the subject matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u2	Mr President! As one of his many innovations The Sipilä government has brought to Parliament a comprehensive reform of the alcohol law, something which, as many people in this Chamber well know, has in fact already been done by several governments. There are no parties in this Parliament who would not have been in the ranks of the government trying to push this reform forward. To begin with, a little bit of the current state of affairs, why there is now a desire to implement the overall reform of the alcohol law: The current legislation on alcohol in Finland consists of 13 regulations on the alcohol law of 1994 and on the basis of it. The law and the regulations adopted under it are now being brought together as comprehensively as possible in the reform into a single law, as is actually required by our Constitution, which was reformed in 2000. The old regulation has been fragmented in law and regulations. It should also be noted that the current alcohol legislation still contains some outdated and rigid provisions from the previous 1932 spirits and 1969 alcoholics. The spirit of the law is now written to this day. In this way I describe the essence of this law: the law is written to this day, the world of bans on the world, where, without forgetting the prevention of health damage, the spirit is that the needs of the industry are identified, people are trusted and unnecessary bureaucracy is dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u15	Thank you. — My assessment is that the Minister's speech gave some substance, perhaps, to a debatation of some length, and in the event that this is the case, I would now ask those Members who wish to speak in this debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u16	Mr President! This reform of the alcohol legislation — quite rightly, as the Minister said — is now the key issue of this increase in the percentage of alcohol in retail trade. There would now be stronger beer, 5.5 per cent, and so would these so-called soda wines, which have just been regarded as the most important health policy issue. According to THL data, and according to statistics, the Finns receive 90% of the alcohol they consume through beer, and now the fear is that retail shelves will start to fill up precisely from this stronger beer and medium beer, which is milder, will become a marginal group, and then they will also become throw-in products, they will be sold for sale, and the alcohol intake of the average ordinary citizens will gradually increase, and this is linked to the fact that cancer diseases
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u17	Mr President! The law is generally good and necessary. The draft law contains a great deal of necessary deregulation, for example, the reduction of the rigid liquor rights of the restaurant mentioned by Minister Saariko and, in particular, the facilitation of direct sales of small breweries. The Sipilä government is committed to dismantling unnecessary bureaucracy. Mr President! Experts have pointed out that increasing the percentage of alcohol sold in the store is a hot stone in this government’s proposal. I am very pleased that the government parties have come to an agreement that we have a free hand in voting on this issue. Everyone will decide with their own faces on this issue, and I am pleased about that. As Minister Saarikko said, alcohol is not a common commodity, and I therefore believe that it should be allowed to include the broad knowledge of the adverse effects of alcohol in our various sectors of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, at least at this early stage, we are trying to keep quite a close eye on the one-minute speeches. If there is any reason to do so, I will then give the floor for perhaps two minutes later. We shall now stick to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u19	Mr President! A good thing about this government's expected bill of alcohol bill is a reduction in bureaucracy, as well as the fact that small breweries are easier to sell out. On the other hand, I agree with Minister Saariko's wish that research data should also be taken into account when deciding on this bill. And yes, Finnish researchers have widely pointed out that this proposal will increase alcohol consumption, and when alcohol consumption is increased, it also means that the harmful effects of alcohol, alcohol problems and their cost to society will increase. More jobs are likely to be created only in the social and health sector, and also because alcohol consumption and harms are indeed increasing. In this context, I would have asked the Minister whether this draft law is in the process of:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u20	Mr President! The reform of the alcohol law, which has been distilled for years, makes sense now to move forward, and I would like to underline that this bill has sought to balance the public health aspect with those reforms: dismantling the norm and promoting the Finnish food and drink culture. With regard to this percentage debate, I would like to say that the government has on many occasions agreed on this 5.5 % volume, and I support it. It is important that we look at the impact of this in committee. The Legislative Evaluation Council pointed out that the government had not properly reviewed the impact on consumers. But I do not want us to get caught up in this percentage debate, but I would like to say that the drinking culture of Finnish young people has changed. In Europe, we are absolutely at the forefront of how we have young people who are completely sober: one in four people between the ages of 15 and 16 is sober. Do we not believe that the drinking culture of adults can be changed? I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will focus on this and consider how, through positiveness, we can get Finnish adults to drink less. Promotion of beer culture,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u21	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good introduction to this bill. Hardly any of us deny that alcohol is harmful and that alcohol is a major problem in many families and for many people. There is a lot of good in this bill, and, as you said, Minister, this percentage is what certainly inspires debate. This bill is justified, among other things, by the fact that Finnish small breweries have access to the market and to the shelf. But now it has also been said that foreign small breweries could actually be those who, at lower prices, would also enter the store, and that would be the case if the Finnish product were not sold. However, Finland is a large country and we have agglomerations and regions where getting beer and alcohol is not necessarily that easy. Would it be possible, for example, to have a special permit alongside the law to sell this stronger beer in areas where, for example, there is no Alko?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u22	Mr President! Alcohol evokes very strong feelings in most citizens. What is confusing, however, is how much emotion this reform has given rise to in advance, even though this law does not provide any tightening up to this current state of affairs. If the Parliament remains very strict, the availability of alcohol will not be made easier, but it will not become more difficult than it is at present, but will remain the same. I think the stronger one can handle what the weaker one demands. That is, those who do not have problems with alcohol can continue to apply for stronger alcohol at Alko. All studies show that making access easier increases alcohol harm and alcohol death. Minister, we cannot legislate in this civilized country to increase deaths, can we?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u23	Mr President! I personally do not support the release of 5,5 % alcohol products into the grocery trade. But it must be said in favour of this government's proposal that this proposal, just as Minister Saarikko said there, will safeguard Alko's monopoly, which is a very important factor in curbing alcohol harm in our country. For example, if the wines were to be liberalised, it would have meant that the existing Alko store network, which covers some 350 shops, would have had to be significantly reduced as a result of the loss of profitability, and then the debate would have started that no more strong ones could be obtained now than before, and it would have been easy for the whole monopoly to drive down. So this is some sort of compromise, although I am not in favour of this percentage increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u24	Mr President! There are many good and welcome changes in the Government's proposal: the abolition of the rules on the opening of restaurants, the facilitation of licensing bureaucracy and the possibility of direct sales of small breweries are reforms that improve the productivity of alcohol-related companies. But what has the government thought about raising the percentage of drinks sold in grocery stores? [Department : Estonian wine rally! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u25	Mr President! This government proposal is a very balanced one, a good one. It dismantles red tape, which is very important because alcohol legislation is very outdated. I also draw attention to the fact that we support drinking alcohol on recreational ships in the direction of Stockholm and Tallinn. It has both maritime support and tax exemption, and even with the Tallinn wine, you can kill yourself if you want to drink. Here too: When you walk five kilometers [5 km] from Parliament to Kallio, there are five Alkos along the way. That this availability of alcohol must also be in relation to the place where people live.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u26	Mr President! In many ways, the government's proposal is highly contradictory and, in some cases, inconsistent in its efforts to promote the well-being and health of citizens — to increase the prevention of alcohol policy — and, on the other hand, to increase people's drinking and, as a result, to reduce people's health and to increase nausea in families, as well as in society. Now there is a great deal of concern for the various experts about this, which has already been discussed here: the arrival of these mussels and rumichola and others in R-kioskeos, service stations and K-stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u27	Mr President! Last autumn, the KD Parliamentary Group drew the attention of STM to a number of negative effects that the implementation of government policies to liberalise sales of stronger alcoholic beverages to grocery stores should have. In Finland, Sweden and Norway, public health has long been one of the cornerstones of alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u28	Mr President! In the Government Programme, it is stated that the government is seeking to reduce unnecessary regulation and red tape, and against that background the government's proposal is well aligned and broadly well supported. On the other hand, the Government Programme also states that the aim is to make use of experiments and the cross-border use of administrative information. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would have been possible, as if from a theoretical point of view at this stage, to think that this percentage would have been triggered, for example, from the point of view of Lapland, to see what effects will be on tourism, entrepreneurship, consumption habits, tax revenue and so on, and whether the results would have been derived from data and whether there would have been further expansion, increase percentages or return to the old one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u30	Mr. Speaker! Good in this law is the resale right of small breweries in particular. I greet it with great joy. There are many people in the Parliament who have taken this bill forward in the past. I do not see that this is in any way an obstacle to the tourism industry and, let us say now, to our entire growth in employment. Foreign small breweries or breweries are already here to sell their products on store shelves. There was one thing I especially missed, it would have been the VAT bill for restaurants. This is incomplete in that respect. It would have been better for us to have had the price of alcohol in our restaurants to guide service jobs and perhaps restaurant culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u31	President! At this point, I think more Members of Parliament are like that voting table: 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no'. It may be extremely difficult for many people to come up with a position, and that is certainly also the case because each of us in our electorate has both rags and rap drunks, and that is why it is difficult to form a position. As the Minister said, the changes have been very slow in Finland. Two significant years can be mentioned: 1932 and 1969. In particular, I see in this law that Alko's monopoly, the responsible alcohol policy under Alko's leadership, continues. And I am absolutely sure that no one will cry after them when the milk shops lose artificial fermented tentacles. No one's going to miss them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u32	One last reply to Mr Niiko, and then I will give the floor to all the Members of Parliament for another two minutes, so many speeches have gone over that minute. — Now again, Mr Niikko, you have 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u34	All right, and two minutes would just start now. — Mr Buska, you have two minutes maximum.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u35	Mr President! I would have thanked the Minister for his very balanced and good speech. Our alcohol legislation is really good for new and modernising and cutting red tape. I believe that the legislative package has been very well prepared by the ministry's officials, with the exception of the section on the increase in the percentage of alcohol and sodas, which was passed as a result of the political direction of the preparation. This percentage, which is probably the most debated now, is, as the Minister said, by far the most important and harmful thing in terms of health and social policy, as the very broad consultation showed, and should be rejected in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u36	Mr President! The overall reform of the alcohol law is very necessary, because in many places the law is obsolete, as we heard here. Every time this law is amended, we have a debate on industrial policy, employment policy and health policy, and there should be a balance between these issues. Unfortunately, the government has now chosen its side in this matter, and unfortunately public health will be the loser. I would like to ask you, Minister Saarikko, why the expert opinions on health effects have been so neglected in your proposal. President! A lot has been said about passenger imports in connection with this legislative reform, but it is only one part of alcohol policy, and it seems a little strange to put it at the heart of the argument when we know that many tax increases have been made and are being made in Estonia. Would it not have been appropriate, Minister, to wait for the effects of these tax increases before rushing into this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u39	Mr President! The Coalition Party is a moderate reformer with confidence in man — listening to the debate in the Chamber, even a courageous reformer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u46	Mr President! I think there is a great contradiction when the government talks about the sustainability gap — about the need to make painful cuts, and looking for ways to change our social and health care system so that it can cope with lower costs — and then, with the other hand, reform is being carried out, from which all the experts who are not representatives of any industry say that it will increase the public health costs enormously and will increase the harm of alcohol on the lives of individuals and the costs of our health care and social security. And, in particular, the percentage increase in alcoholic beverages sold in the grocery trade and the so-called sodas: if the key point is how far away or close is the nearest Alko, could not this experiment, as suggested by Mr Kiuru, be started by experimenting with this issue in those grocery stores that are indeed the nearest Alko far away, and not in the whole kingdom?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u49	Mr President! This debate has gone a bit the way it has been expected that we will be talking here about these percentage tithes. And although this two speeches have wanted a little bit of this bigger picture to be taken up, no one has taken it here. I have pointed out that when the alcohol law is reformed, this could also be a big opportunity for the Finnish export industry. When we have talked about this norm, we should then also break down the standards that prevent alcohol from being exported. At present, however, alcohol is the largest food item exported from Finland. That would be EUR 150 million, and there is much more for the Finns to do. When we have talked about whether alcohol is a normal commodity, from the point of view of exports and imports, it is indeed an ordinary commodity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u52	Mr President! It's a good conversation. Of course, there's a side and a side. At the time of the parliamentary elections, this was one of the topics that appeared in all the election machines, among other things. The candidates were asked how you feel about whether alcohol policy is more liberal or not, and I myself said that I am on the side of not being so supportive of people. Now, of course, it is good for everyone to remember what the election machines responded to. At least I'm always trying to be on the same page. Many citizens hope that they will have the opportunity to choose more freely the products they want. It is these large consumers who are the problem. In the government’s proposal, I considered that 10% of the population currently drink half of alcohol, which is about 1,000 litres of beer, or 3,000 cans. So the idea is precisely that this is the problem group, because if I think that an ordinary person takes a few more beers a year, it is hardly if there are no risk limits that are exceeded, but that these large consumers would significantly increase their consumption of alcohol. In fact, then I would like to ask what we could do about those reasons. After all, alcoholism is often the result of a variety of problems that have fallen into false associations. In my opinion, if a person feels unwell, whatever he suppresses it and numbs himself, it is not the solution that we remove or limit the sale of alcohol, for example, but that we go there to the root causes, that why you drink too much. Why do we not discuss it at all, but imagine that if we limit something, these problems will be eliminated from the life of this person? I think that excessive alcohol consumption is more a result than a cause. I'd like to ask the minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u53	Mr President! I support the Government's proposal almost as it stands, and I hope that my support will not lead to the government's proposal going down. [Laughter] It seems to me that we want to create a picture that the end of the world is between 4.7% and 5.5%, and I do not like the fact that the debate has been reduced to soda, which in fact does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u54	Herr Talman! Det är så att alkoholfrågor alltid väcker känslor, och det är förståeligt. Vi har en tradition av att ha problemm med alkoholen i vårt land, och alltid när det blir fråga om alkohol så får vi också vara beredda på att vi har olika syn på det. Jag resonerar som så att vi i Finland nog är ett land som har bekymmer med alkoholen. Det är ett folkhälsoproblem hos oss, och då är frågan vad vi behöver göra och vad vi inte behöver göra.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u55	Mr President! This 200-page bill is a strange package. It contains 60 pages of justification for why, even in the government's proposal, this most important or most significant proposal for a change in the percentage limit is harmful and works against the purpose of the alcohol law itself when it increases consumption, increases the harm, 150 alcohol dead on an annual basis, requires, for example, an increase of 170 policemen, as it says, the employment impact is plus minus zero, i.e. the government's own proposal, and the cost to society is increasing and the sustainability gap is becoming more difficult. I wonder if, ladies and gentlemen, you have read this motion on the basis of which you are defending this particular detail. This introductory paragraph of the Government proposal states that since the reform increases the total consumption of alcohol, the impact of the reform on people's well-being and health is negative. Yes, this is in sharp contrast to the whole meaning of the alcohol law. It is also in conflict with the Government Programme and it is in conflict with the Constitution. Mr Sarkomaa referred here to the good development we have in recent years with regard to alcohol consumption, especially for young people. That is precisely because we have had five tax increases and a restriction on advertising since 2008. Now this good development should not be jeopardised but rather move in the direction stated in the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, this two-minute service now ends and we move on to the usual one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u57	Mr President! Thank you for serving me. We'll be fine for a minute. Mr President! I believe that everyone in this Chamber will agree that the aim would be to move towards a more European culture. I agree with this objective, and it is good to assess how the government itself sees the direction in which consumption is going to go. One meter to assess this is whether consumption will move from homes and streets to restaurants. If that happens, I think it is a good objective. But the government itself estimates that the opposite is actually happening: consumption will move away from restaurants, and in fact this may even lead to a reduction in employment at that time. Another assessment is the benefits and disadvantages. The government itself estimates that the harm is greater. The third is this import of Estonia, which was referred to here. It is stated here that the introduction of Estonia with these presentations is not exactly confusing. Mr President! That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u59	Mr President! Yes, the overall benefits of this presentation are clear: to dismantle the ancient restaurant bureaucracy, to facilitate the operating conditions of small breweries. I hope there is broad support for these issues here in Parliament. But I'm sure the torque will come from this 5.5 percent. There are, of course, different things about the scale cup. On the other side, at least I see it for myself, Estonia's liquor rally is decreasing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u62	So we returned to the 1-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u63	Mr President! I am well aware that there are many of them in this Chamber, as I am, who have received alcohol education in the form of Turmiola Tomm and the forbidden fruit when they were young, and that is the point of income which is still apparently being assessed in this country. However, it is worth looking at our young people, for example, at the relationship they currently have with alcohol and alcohol consumption and its behaviour. Yes, we must believe that this people will become wise. And this people must be trusted, and it is not by ban and restriction that we should go forward and strengthen the taste of the forbidden fruit that has been displayed here in these speeches. There are still shortcomings in these assessments as to what will happen. For example, THL has stated that imports of brewery beverages by travellers have increased sharply, but, on the other hand, THL does not make an assessment of how these different distribution channels shape this consumption. I would like to ask the Minister about this: is there any precise information on how this consumption will be directed in relation to the various distribution channels?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u64	Mr President! In that sense, we are in a fortunate situation as decision-makers that alcohol is something that has been studied very much in Finland. So we can leave such vague arguments of which party trusts and which party does not, to its own dignity and, instead, mirror this government proposal to the investigated information on the effects of alcohol policy. And when you do it, it's not hard to make a stock. As has been said on several occasions, many of these proposals relating to deregulation are fully justified and supported from a business policy point of view. But, instead, transferring stronger drinks to grocery stores is not. It increases total consumption due to lower prices and better availability, and the increase in total consumption also increases the social, social and health problems caused by alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u65	Mr President! I personally see that there is a lot of good in this proposal: it is precisely this dismantling of bureaucracy and selling out small breweries and the idea that we could strengthen the beer culture in Finland that makes it easier to sell restaurants. Personally, I would have seen it as important that this should have been directed specifically to restaurants, to controlled conditions. But now that this percentage of alcohol is being raised in retail trade, at least the estimates of this government’s proposal state that it is likely, on the contrary, to divert consumption from the restaurants. I find this very regrettable. When we consider this relationship between availability and price, we know that when prices fall and availability gets easier, consumption will increase. I personally see that, as legislator,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u66	Mr President! It seems that the liberals who call themselves liberals will end with the alcohol law being discussed — with the exception of my esteemed representative, Mustajärvi, who made a fine speech. In the context of my freedom of conscience, I believe that we no longer need such a strong guardianship: the ban, liquor cards and alcohol inspectors have been abandoned. In 95 the shops accepted tentacles and cider. Well, we're still alive here, we're still twisting about the same things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u69	Mr President! Personally, I have not recognized that the problem would be that we somehow get too little alcohol in Finland. Of course, everyone on their own recognizes problems, but I personally have not seen the problem — many other flaws are found instead. After all, it becomes common ground in that way — this is not just a question of guardianship — that the cost and the bill are to be paid by all. And these things, which Mrs Kaikonen has mentioned here, are probably being weighed down. But, President-in-Office, what I would like more in the future would be to create a genuine European restaurant culture in Finland. Now it's the kind of thing that, after solid bottoms, you come to a nightclub right from home at midnight, and the service industry, the restaurant industry, often suffers from it. On this side of the restaurants, a reduction in VAT would certainly be a good instrument which I would like the government to continue to consider very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u70	Mr President! I feel rather liberal about alcohol, but it still does not remove my concern about the health of Finns. I do not quite understand this kind of aphrodisiac around this legislative package, for if we were to try to remove all emotional alcohol politics, what would remain? It is precisely these health-policy implications of the law, which the Minister also pointed out. I'm concerned about the link between alcohol and cancer. Cancer is a growing problem in our society, and many people are afraid of different causes of cancer, but alcohol is not the cause of cancer. I would like to ask the Minister: How do you feel, Minister, that decisions to increase alcohol consumption expose just ordinary Finns increasingly to cancer in the future? Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u72	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u73	Mr President! This joint debate certainly shows to all of us in the best possible way why it has been so difficult to regulate alcohol policy in Finland for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now this hot spot in the hands of this Chamber, in which most of your speeches have focused: that is to say, the vote on whether percentages in shops are kept at present or raised until that 5.5. A few comments and relevant and pertinent questions about the speeches of the representatives, which I can at least try to answer. In my opinion, the government has very openly assessed the impact of this proposal in terms of both the business sector and its adverse effects, including the assessment of children, which is included in the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u79	We're going to have a little more time with the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u80	Mr President! I did not pay so much attention to these percentages at the previous stages of this issue, but after familiarising myself with these expert opinions, it became quite clear — they totally reject this percentage issue. I have the impression that, now that this goes to committee and the committee listens to all these experts, there will be a position which is not in line with this government's proposal for these percentages, and then we will really have to resolve this issue here. This is unfortunate in that this proposal is good, by the way. I'm all for what's out there. It is a very good and competent presentation and required by time. But in this regard I wonder why Parliament, which generally believes in experts, does not now believe when the experts are unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u81	Mr President! After all, alcohol is historically very difficult, even traumatic, here in Finland. There is no way to deny or even minimize its adverse effects. But at the same time it is also appropriate to ask whether, over the years, over the decades, we ourselves have made this issue so difficult. We have mystified alcohol and its availability and made it such a forbidden fruit that it is so hard to reach but then so wonderful to get hold of. If, President, we want to move towards a pan-European situation, we must move slowly and responsibly but consistently, resolutely along this rocky path. In fact, we have been on that path for almost 50 years since the release of medium beer for dairy shops and the release of import quotas almost completely in 95 C.E. Or are we Finns somehow genetically incapable of having a normal attitude to alcohol or condemned to this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u82	Mr President! The current alcohol law is old and needs reform, updating. The Estonian liquor rally has brought its own challenges in terms of alcohol. Alcohol causes serious problems and disadvantages — true, they cannot be swept under the carpet. However, I am in favour of changing alcohol legislation in a slightly more liberal direction, as is the case with over 60% of our citizens. 5.5% is the right limit. Responsibility comes from allowing wines and strong ones to remain on the sale of Alko, but a little stronger beer and tentacles can still be on store shelves in the future. Small trades benefit. And this bill must also take account of employment, restaurants, small breweries, tourism, their future. But I would ask Minister Saariko: We should be doing educational work right from the start.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u83	Mr President! The Government has demonstrated its ability to act by bringing an overall bill of alcohol to this Parliament for consideration. Scientifically, however, it has been demonstrated that the total volume of alcohol consumption has a clear correlation with adverse effects such as health effects, liver diseases, as well as social adverse effects and the cost of causing disorder in society. It is estimated that the new liberalisation of alcohol would increase the total consumption of alcohol by 6% and, in fact, the alcohol sold in the retail sector could reduce the price of alcohol in the retail trade by up to 40%. In other words, both the increase in alcohol consumption, total consumption and then the fall in prices together will significantly increase our alcohol deaths by at least 150. I personally see that this kind of development is not possible, and that is why I am not in favour of an increase in the percentage of alcohol.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u84	Mr President! As in all politics, alcohol policy should also remember the disadvantaged. Anyone who does not have a problem with alcohol will certainly get his food and social drinks from Alko, but it would be responsible to try to protect risk and problem users, children and young people. Unfortunately, the government proposal does not respond to this cry. The arguments put forward by the government are, in fact, full of the reasons why this proposal should not be carried through as it is. Even with regard to these employment effects, which have been acclaimed somewhere, it has been stated here in the explanatory statement that'more opportunities than today to buy stronger alcoholic beverages at lower prices in shops do not guide the consumption of alcoholic beverages to restaurants, but to other environments of use. The reform of the law can thus even reduce sales and employment in the sector". [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, a little crystallization.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u86	Mr President! The bill contains a lot of good elements, such as the right to sell out small breweries and the transfer of beer stalls to history. However, we do not need Mr Turmiola Tomm for this debate, because we know, on the basis of expert estimates, what this increase in the percentage of alcohol sold in the store means. Experts are very much in agreement: lower prices and better access mean more consumption, more alcohol-related harm, more social costs and more social problems. Of course, we are all experts in the field of alcohol, but we must listen to researchers and make our decisions on a research basis. Mr President! It is good that Alko's monopoly remains strong, but we should consider how to facilitate access for domestic alcohol producers to Alko's selections and thus support Finnish production and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u87	Mr President! Indeed, years have been waiting for the new alcohol law. Thank you for finally having it here on our table. This legislative package is, as a general rule, absolutely excellent and, as our minister has pointed out, there are a huge number of standards there, they are being made just in the restaurant sector. And it would be our job to have the restaurant culture raised by Mr Puumala to get consumption from home sofas to restaurants. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u88	Mr President! I have talked a lot about this bill with the Social and Health Service staff, and many of them have said that they agree with the Panimoliitto, among other things, that this bill does increase the work — that is, their work. However, social welfare and health care workers do not want more work when they already have too much work. On weekdays, every fourth and weekends, almost every second patient is under the influence of alcohol, and in intensive care, as many as 18% of intensive care days are due to alcohol — I think the Minister has just mentioned this. The increase in use also adds to the disadvantages of use and also to the work of the social welfare and health services, there is nothing you can do about it, that is how it goes. I hope that the committee will also hear doctors, nurses and police officers from the point of view of their everyday work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u89	Mr President! Children cannot decide how much alcohol their parents or loved ones drink, but they are very often surrogates for intimate and domestic violence, and alcohol is very often the cause. I would also like to remind you that we have more than a thousand FAS children born a year when the mother drinks too much during pregnancy. These FAS kids suffer from their problems and injuries all their lives. That is why I cannot in any way support specifically allowing the sale of strong beers and cocktails in grocery stores. I cannot possibly accept that from the point of view of public health and child protection either. But otherwise, there are very many positive aspects of this bill, and they have been raised here, including the position of small breweries and the attempt to shift the drink to restaurants. They are good reforms, among other things. But now we should think about this most difficult part, the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u90	Mr President! Alcohol evokes great emotions — where alcohol law in conversation, there lobbying and fighting for whose truth is most true. There is a lot of good in the performance, but also a little bad, i.e. how the increase in the retail trade of the percentage of alcohol got a little watered down. The situation is that the right to direct sales by breweries is a good thing, but it is a pity that they did not get a distribution channel for all their products to retailers, because the government proposal would only increase this percentage to 5.5 and not 8.5, as could have been well done. As far as this responsibility is concerned, I would like to hear an explanation as to the difference between the sale of stronger alcohol or, perhaps, the Alko at the end of the shop. What does the responsibility actually materialize in it? Is there perhaps a baptism point in the wall?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u91	Mr President! A very good speech is made in that this reform of the alcohol law and this very increase in the percentage will certainly have the greatest impact in precisely where Alkoja does not exist. Where Alkoja is, the increase in availability is hardly so important. We know, however, that there is no change in the times when alcohol is sold or in the marketing of alcohol. As far as so-called soda wines are concerned, this should also be borne in mind, and it will continue to be prohibited to buy and supply alcohol to minors as it is today. So we are not drinking or attracting young people to alcohol either as we are today. If alcohol is passed on to them, it will continue to be the responsibility of adults. In addition, it should be noted here that the consumption of this hall — it was stated here that we are increasing consumption — is not enough for our people alone, people are doing it themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u92	Mr President! We are having a debate on the balance between alcohol-related harm and business. Last year, alcohol consumption was nearly 11 litres per person aged 15 or over and converted into 100 percent alcohol. It is unfortunate to note that there are between 300,000 and 500,000 major users in our country, or 10% of the population. We know that it makes it difficult for people to go to work and to be close to them. Finally, Mr President, I would like us all to think about whether this is the right message for young people in our country, first and foremost, when we already know, according to the THL, that alcohol consumption is rising by 6%, and as the more we drink alcoholic beverages, the different health effects are increasing enormously from the smaller to the greater. These are the things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u93	Mr President! The tip of the debate has focused on this export of stronger beverages to the retail sector. Rarely in a bill are expert opinions as clear and unanimous as in this case — and it is surprising that this proposal has not taken account of this. It has now been said that every person has his own responsibility and freedom to buy, but when that individual cannot bear that responsibility, it remains our shared responsibility, the importance of the adverse effects at national level is billions and the individual cannot bear it. Yes, this is a serious matter of how this responsibility is carried out. We have a lot of talk about the need to take a model from Sweden. Why is this not the case? Yes, we now have our own responsibility,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u94	Mr President! First, a few quick questions for the ministers. Christmas Eve liquor sale in Alko: Does Sunday Christmas Eve also mean Christmas Eve? The other one is the festival award. If this territorial boundary is extended, how will it be ensured that no alcohol is collected for minors from the drinking area?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u97	Mr President! Here some members of the government parties have defended this bill by saying that this would lead to alcohol consumption in restaurants, but this is not the case. This bill, its explanatory text, says that this bill will target alcohol consumption more in environments other than restaurants, and therefore it may be that the employment impact on restaurants is even negative or at most neutral. I would personally like to see this bill discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, at least these representatives, who sit on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, be able to familiarise themselves with this government's own proposal and also with these other impact assessments, which state that the impact on individuals and families will be negative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u98	And Mr Sarkomaa, obviously here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u99	Mr President! Alcohol is a drink of the wise. Alcoholic harm in Finland is far too great. We need new ways in which we can eradicate alcohol harm and promote responsible alcohol consumption when the old methods have not worked. Studies also show that we also need new means. That is why I support many amendments to this bill because they are an opportunity to change the Finnish alcohol culture. We succeeded with regard to young people — why not with regard to adults too? For example, the opening hours of Alko will be increased: the opening hours will be allowed until 9 a.m. Why? Because we want to promote a dinner culture, get that bottle of booze from the Alko. [Laughter from the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame to knock on the floor and to come on with the President's speech, but it has to be done to ensure that the common rules of the game are in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u101	Mr President! Most people have an opinion on what to do with alcohol problems. There are good proposals here for education, support for restaurants, addressing the underlying problems, influencing the alcohol culture. Now we have a concrete law on the table, and that has to be decided. And if, by virtue of its law, sales of stronger alcoholic beverages in shops and elsewhere are started, consumption and problems will increase. It's not guardianship. Finnish society and parliament must decide on a number of issues concerning the health, safety and social costs of citizens — and in this context too. Just as I think the Minister referred, for example, to speed limits: it is not patronising that society decides what is the highest allowed speed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u102	Mr President! Of course, the government must be acknowledged for the fact that rarely in any draft law so unambiguously states the reasons why certain parts of this should not be regulated. I'll have to give you credit for that. And I think that, in this debate, for the sake of honesty, everyone must say that, if all changes are carried through, access and thus consumption will also increase. And when consumption increases, the disadvantages increase. I would like to take a specific example from the safety point of view: at the moment, when the police are forced to drive 60,000 people each year to jail because of drunkenness, it is quite clear that this amount will increase, and somehow I would think that, in this situation of internal security, the police would have something more to do than be a drunk driver.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u103	Mr. Speaker! It is good that this long-standing law has now been brought before Parliament. The fact that bureaucracy is being dismantled around restaurant activities is a very positive thing. Similarly, small breweries are being made easier to operate in such a way that new jobs are created and, above all, Finnish handicraft can be sold on the market. It's a positive thing. Having listened to your opinions, ladies and gentlemen, on alcohol-related harms and the good writings of many experts, some of which I have read through on several occasions, where the point is, yes, the fact is that alcohol-related harm is one of the major problems of Finnish society and the threats involved must be taken seriously. I look forward to the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this matter with great interest. After my current knowledge and the contributions of the experts and colleagues I have heard, I am, of course, in favour of keeping the percentages unchanged. When this other package
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u104	Mr President! The Prohibition Act was repealed after the referendum in 1932. However, the prohibition law remained in practice in rural areas and the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages was long allowed only in towns and shops, and I believe that it is still in force in rural areas insofar as alcohol is not allowed in rural grocery stores. On the other hand, having been here in Helsinki for about six years now, there is some kind of liquor store about every 500 metres away. I would like to ask the Minister if there is a wiser people living here in Helsinki. Is it high time the Prohibition Act was finally repealed throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u105	Mr. Speaker! I'm sure there's a lot of Green voters who'll be surprised. In the election machine, the Greens Alanko-Kahiluoto said that it would be great if strong beer, which is more tasty, would come to the shelves. Also in the election machine, Touko Aalto, Johanna Karimäki, Emma Kari, Antero Vartia, Ya-nar, Parviainen and Congressman Mikkonen were even in favour of bringing wine to the grocery store, and that speech was quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u108	Mr President! As in other parliamentary groups, representatives of the Greens' Parliament have free hands on this law to judge for themselves how they vote, and there are different positions on this in our group. But I personally believe that if a Member of Parliament receives strong expert information on a matter from different perspectives
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u111	Mr President, after more than 10 seconds of time has passed, that is the end of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u112	Mr President! In this percentage debate, many are now calling for the names of individual freedom and consumer benefit to be used as a pretext for improving access to alcohol products. But, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the individual is also a freedom to feel safe at home and, for example, in transport, and surveys show that the experience of harm caused by other people's drinking is more common in Finland than in other Nordic countries. In this case, individual freedom also causes significant social harm and considerable costs, for example, for the social and health sector and for the police, as has been demonstrated in the debate. Of this individual’s freedom, the fact that the high consumer and alcoholic can no longer afford to choose: that disease has taken the ability to do so at their own discretion, and the alcoholic’s child can no longer afford to choose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u115	Mr President! This is actually a question of whether we are prepared to increase the problems, whether we are prepared to increase the cost or then increase the availability of alcohol for spirits. I think that in this debate and in the expert opinions it is very clear that this bill as a whole, as Mr Puska said, is a good one, but here is this percentage problem, which will lead to an increase in costs and problems, an increase in insecurity in society. Mr Heikkinen has just said well on this point and Mr Salolainen has also said this in the right way. In my opinion, a sensible way is now to listen to experts, to seek solutions based on the consultation and knowledge of experts, and thus to build the whole reform of this whole entity in the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u116	Mr President! The Government proposal is a balanced presentation from the point of view of industrial policy and public health. After all, it has sought a solution as to whether Alko's monopoly can be slightly demolished and transferred to a central European drinking culture, and, on the other hand, how much of us Finns can patronize, based mainly on health policy reasons. Among other things, there has been talk of alcoholism among young people. I would like to highlight, among other things, the fact that the results of the European ESPAD study on the use of young drugs are positive in many ways: 22 years ago, in 1995, 10 per cent of Finnish 16-year-olds, i.e. 9th-graders, were entirely sober. A couple of years ago, in 2015, the same figure was already 26 per cent, or more than a quarter. However, I would like to ask the Minister one thing about this legislative reform, and that is why you chose to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u117	And now for the reply, Mr Nylander — that is, Mr Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u118	Thank you, Mr President. It's so good to have a name back. Mr President! There is a lot of good in the government's proposal that I can very well support. However, I do not understand why we should be able to buy stronger beer from retailers, and here I certainly hope, as many other colleagues here do, that the committee will listen with a sensitive ear to what experts have to say on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u119	Mr President! It has now been said in a number of speeches that the proposal has sought to strike a balance between industrial policy considerations and public health considerations, but if the result of this balancing is 150 more deaths due to alcohol on an annual basis, at least for my part, I do not think that a very satisfactory solution has been found here. In addition to that, this proposal also concerns the choices and priorities made in the field of industrial policy. I do not believe that there is a disagreement in this Chamber that it is not worth trying to promote the transfer of drinking to restaurants instead of drinking at home, but this proposal does not support this type of industrial policy, on the contrary it contradicts it. So what we are actually balancing here as decision-makers is the interests of the retail trade and public health. And when you put it this way, I do not think that this is a difficult choice at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u120	Mr President! Interesting claims have been made in this Chamber that the new alcohol law would improve the drinking culture of Finns. That is absolutely not true. Ten per cent of Finns drink half of Finnish drink alcohol. And the assessments made by experts on how total alcohol consumption correlates with deaths and other adverse effects are amazingly unanimous: Finns die twice as much of the harmful effects of alcohol as Danes, who, however, clearly drink more than Finns on average. There is something in our Finnish drinking culture that exposes us to these adverse effects, it exposes us to the disadvantage of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u121	Mr President! There has been concern here about the number of policemen, and the government's proposal is that 170 more police are needed to do this, just because of this amendment to the alcohol law. This is due to timetables, to the fact that restaurants are allowed to be open until five and can be sold out, plus this percentage sales. At the moment, 70% of police alarms are due to alcohol-based reasons. In addition to what alcohol affects: there are fires, drowning deaths, child protection, violence, domestic violence, robberies, all of them mostly involve alcohol. For this reason, I cannot possibly understand that this point is not being taken into account. We would also have other uses for this money, which will be a negative, for example, for the second-degree free-of-charge. And here, like freedom of choice legislation, there is strong political guidance, so that the explanatory statement repeals all the articles that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u122	Mr President! Large consumers of alcohol, called in the vernacular, drink, brawl and fall and are forced into the emergency room, even if there is a prohibition in Finland and the sale only gets the first milk — the drunks drink anyway. They'll pick it up anywhere and then use replacements if they don't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u125	Mr President! It is good that this reform will finally be brought forward by the Sipilä Government. What is particularly good about this position for entrepreneurs is that small breweries no longer need to set up a separate outlet for small breweries just because of this legislation. This is a good thing that drinks can be sold directly from breweries. The bureaucracy associated with restaurant delivery is also being dismantled. In particular, it is good that especially in this kind of seasonal tourism areas can be hired then during holiday periods more easily employees. This bureaucracy is also being dismantled. I would refer to this earlier debate as regards the status of Alko. We therefore have a very good Alko network in small municipalities, in sparsely populated areas, at the moment. They have a very wide selection, a good expert service. I do not believe for a moment that if, for example, wines had been transferred to grocery stores, we would have the same range and similar expertise in use there, even if good service is provided. But I would have liked to ask the minister about these alcohol drawbacks and why we drink.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u126	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Lauslahti, Mr Pekonen, Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u127	Mr President! We have heard an excellent debate in this Chamber. As far as legislation is concerned, this is a whole which involves many other things than a mere 1%, and in relation to this percentage, we should first and foremost consider in the committee the way in which the introduction of four cells into retail trade changes the behaviour of consumers. Does it lead to the four cell becoming an invertebrate product, and perhaps the consumption moves from three to four that way? This is an assessment that we must make and, through it, also assess the consequences it will have for public health. I hope that we will have the best possible experts and research to go through this line of reasoning and then we will be able to draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u128	Mr President! Congressman Lehto here referred to Prohibition and spoke of risotto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u131	Mr President! I would also like to express my thanks for the good assessment of these arguments in the law. Here, among other things, the explanatory statement of the proposal states and describes that the proposal will increase alcohol consumption and both the public's nausea and violence. Among other things, it says here: "About two thirds of the abuse has been committed under the influence of alcohol. The increase in alcohol consumption has been shown to increase the number of assault offences. About 40 percent of suspects in rape offences have been under alcohol. Health care is burdened by alcohol diseases and intoxicated persons' accidents." Then it says: 'The problem of the day and the other problems involved are the most common reason for the customerism of child welfare and for taking care and investing outside the home.' Mr President! I would like to see a careful assessment of these expert views, which are also included in this proposal. Should we not, as legislators, have a specific role to play in reducing alcohol consumption and these nausea, which is also the case with these arguments?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u132	Before the Minister, I will give Mr Löfström a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u133	Mr President! The proposal for an alcohol law suggests that small breweries may sell their products directly from the brewery. That is a very good thing. The boom of the microbreweries is visible all over Finland. It is therefore good to facilitate the operation of small breweries. However, there is one problem with the proposal, namely that the limit is set at only 500000 litres. This limit is difficult because it threatens to distort competition between small breweries. Let me give you an example from Åland, where we have two small breweries. One breweries puts less than 500,000 gallons of beer a year, the other puts 800,000 gallons a year. Both breweries are small compared to large breweries, which are brewing 100 million litres per year, but nevertheless there is an uneven competition between the two small breweries on the local market. I would like to ask Minister Saariko: why has the higher limit not been chosen or has it not been completely removed, and what does the Minister think that the proposed limit is threatening to distort competition between small breweries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u134	Minister Saarikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u135	Mr President! First of all, on this last issue of Mr Löfström's small brewery. First of all, I welcome the fact that there is also a dimension to the debate that there has been a lot of fine, high-quality work in Finland and a new alcohol culture and new entrepreneurship just around the small brewery and similar activities. That is a great thing, and this is what the government wanted to support with a small brewery anomaly. And why do I call it "the micro-breather anomaly"? This was therefore an issue in which we are dealing with EU legislation because, at the time of our accession to the EU, we negotiated an exemption for single wines, and now in a similar way we wanted to apply for an exemption, with a good consensus within the government, on how small breweries could be treated in a comparable way, i.e., like applying for an exemption from our own alcohol monopoly system for this product group. This derogation has now been transposed into legislation, but the reason why it was necessary to determine the number of litres, as if the size of a brewery — which, in my opinion, is in fact large — is linked to the fact that the legitimacy of this derogation is specifically linked to craftsmanship and to activities which can still be regarded as verbally and genuinely micro-brewery activities. Mr President! To continue with the speech by Mr Lauslahti, which linked itself to how the law will actually work, my thinking is very similar. We, as legislators here, are all free-to-hand with regard to this one article, including the government parties. Otherwise, the overall reform, which is obviously widely accepted, will be a commodity, and what will happen with it in practice, how Finnish consumers will find out when they go to a market or a restaurant, its reality in this law is the industry's entrepreneurs, the alcoholic beverage industry and the grocery trade — particularly forcefully the latter. That is why I consider it important that I use my opportunity to convene a round table with me on the part of those who implement the law in concrete terms as part of the alcoholic beverage industry and as part of the range of trade and the sales and marketing strategy. Of course, one aspect of this is also the supervisory authority and substance abuse organisations, the supervisory authority also because this is a very important change in legislation for the supervisory authority. In the course of time, I would like to draw attention to a few specific smaller issues. Congressman Tolppanen asked about the sale of the Sunday Christmas Eve liquor. Sunday is always Sunday for the opening hours of Alko, and it does not apply even on Christmas Eve or other holidays. As far as Article 22 is concerned, the possibility of restricting and withdrawing exemptions from the restaurant sector is concerned only if it is genuinely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u136	On the basis of the requests that have just been made, a few more replies have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u137	Mr President! A lot of good speeches have been made here. I would like to point out that a week ago in this Chamber, the Agenda for Sustainable Development was discussed and that it was stated that the various aspects of policy must not conflict with each other. Sustainable well-being must be pursued in a coherent and long-term way. This principle should be implemented by the MP in all its actions and decisions, and this was also urged by the Ministry. I understand very well that this proposal will de-bureaucratise. But what I do not understand and what I would also like to ask the Minister is how this proposal will improve the health and well-being of citizens. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u138	Mr President! The reform of the alcohol law is absolutely necessary; it has been well-founded here on many occasions. But in the context of this reform there are indeed these problems, which I think have also been discussed in great depth and in substance. Let us then, through the Committee of Experts, bring us a report on it here to be resolved in due course. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mrs Elomaa said that a large majority of Finnish citizens support a more relaxed alcohol policy in opinion polls, that this is exactly the opposite. In the opinion polls of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, between 60% and 63% of citizens are in favour of a stricter alcohol policy. For my part, I am not in favour of these stronger beers being put on the market for retail sale, because it increases alcohol consumption, adds to the disadvantages, and as long as we do not have the means to prevent those disadvantages properly, I am not prepared to support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u139	Mr President! This bill has attempted to strike a balance between economic activity and public health. I personally see, however, that this public health has now been reduced, referring now to these impact assessments, as is the case with these expert opinions. With regard to the interests of the business sector, it is particularly gratifying that small breweries are being sold out. As it says here, it also brings a lot of this kind of touristal opportunities. But, of course, the interesting thing is that in its own statement the Small Brewery Federation did not raise this increase in the percentage of beer in the store, because they see that there is a big problem and their chances of competing are very limited with these large breweries, which then bring foreign special beers to shops. But the possibility of export opportunities for small breweries,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u140	Mr President! If we stick to the information studied, which the Minister also called for at the beginning of this debate, we can see from the statistics that alcohol consumption among young people has decreased throughout the 21st century. This has always been the case, regardless of the decisions taken at any time in this Chamber on alcohol policy. So young people are drinking less and less, and in the future we may no longer be different from other civilised nations and we will be able to free the sale of alcohol from this line of custody. But it may not be the time, because my own generation is not as smart as young people and the biggest problems — this must be acknowledged — are among the baby boomers or, in this case, among the wet age groups. They've got these for alcohol use. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u141	It is time for the next response, Mr Kiviranta, and I will give it to Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u142	Mr President! The government's proposal includes facilitating the operation of small breweries and deregulating obsolete regulation on restaurants and public events. The right of small brewers to retail services will facilitate their operation and contribute to small entrepreneurship in this respect. It is clear that the health damage caused by alcohol always increases to some extent as availability improves. Only about 8 per cent of the beer consumed in Finland is imported from Estonia, so the remaining 92% is key to health impacts. The government's decision to increase the alcohol tax is a step in the right direction in this situation, especially since Estonia has also increased the tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u143	Irade the Talman! Det ox lagförslaget har många bra saker som har tags upp ox. Det gäller förhållandet till restaurant, till småbryggerier och så vidare. Man har också diskuterat de ox två controversie delarna, eller snarare det vad man får sälja i butikerna. Själv klarar jag mig gärna utan de förändringarna, aven om jag tycker att det är motiverat ur till exempel småbryggernas synpunkt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u144	Mr President! The aim of alcohol policy must be to protect children and young people in particular from the harm caused by alcohol. This bill would allow a wider range of these liquor-based drinks to be sold in shops, which are particularly appealing to young people. According to market studies, young people are the ones who find the appearance of colorful lemonade attractive. It is even said that sodas are created to get young people used to drinking alcohol. It is quite difficult to understand why the government is bringing such a proposal here in Parliament, because I think that even one young person who is addicted to alcohol is far too much. This bill would also pose a significant threat to the Finnish small brewing industry, which is growing well. Increasing the maximum strength of alcohol products sold in stores will significantly increase the range of stores, and a large number of international liquor brands and imported beer will be fought from the same shelf space. In the meantime, these domestic small breweries will be very narrow, because quite a few of them have the capacity to compete in price competition,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u145	Mr President! I have to start by saying that there are those colorful bottles on the shelves of S-markets and K-stores right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u150	Mr President! These arguments have been put forward here that, as availability improves, consumption automatically increases. I have the courage to question you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u153	I will give a reply to the Vice-President of the committee, Mr Heikkinen, and after him, if the Minister wants a minute, he will be granted it and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u154	Mr President! In the last few speeches there has been talk of a change in alcohol consumption among young people in particular. The most recent school health survey, however, notes that in two years, drunk drinking among vocational schoolchildren has decreased by 2 percentage points to 28.1 per cent. Until ten years ago, 40 per cent were really drunk each month. However, it should be noted that this decline has stalled for comprehensive school-age and high-school students. About 10 per cent of comprehensive school students and 18 per cent of high school students report that they are really drunk at least once a month. Our attention should also be focused on the differences between upper secondary and vocational school students as regards alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, differences in well-being and health are already visible at an early stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u155	Mr President! There is still much to be said in this debate about the drinking of young people, which we should be very happy about. The background will certainly be affected by the renewed legislation on preventive substance abuse work, restrictions on advertising and unambiguously good cultural change. At the same time, however, we must not be lulled into mere joy. It can be seen that, on the other hand, drinking in the age groups of young adults and adults has not been significantly reduced and, at the same time, there is also a new problem in our hands, the growing consumption of alcohol by older people. As far as the rest of the world is concerned, the second dimension, to which much has been referred, is the alcohol culture of other countries. Estonia, which made significant tax increases, not only left a change in its alcohol culture, but is, according to my information, currently working on a proposal that would limit access to perhaps more limited spaces behind doors for alcoholic beverages within stores, i.e. in no country is alcohol policy static, in Finland it has been for quite a long time. We have long been waiting for reform, and it is very good if Parliament is able to see the whole of this reform, although even in this debate, of course, the biggest attention focused on that percentage, but the whole is much greater.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u156	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u157	Mr President! Ani Kellomäki, who lived in an alcoholic family of her childhood, is surprised at Helsingin Sanomat how clear research information is ignored in the reform of the alcohol law, and she says this: "I and tens of thousands of others have paid and we pay debt for the reform of the alcohol law of 69." That's when the middle beer came into the grocery stores and consumption increased a lot. And he goes on to say: "If changes are made now to facilitate access to alcohol, we should at the same time resource, for example, the future of mental health care, so that today's children will then be helped as adults when their parents have used too much alcohol." A-beers, stronger ciders and stronger preparations for distilled alcohol cocktails would be transferred with this government proposal from about 350 stores in Alko to 5500 shops, kiosks and garages, and this would significantly increase availability. In addition to this, the price would also fall, i.e. according to the government proposal, the prices of A beer-strength beverages will fall by about 40 per cent. And according to THL, this would increase the total consumption of alcohol by 6%. Well, who's gonna get the benefit of this? The economic benefit for households would be the most significant for large consumers, i.e. the 10% who currently drink half of all alcohol. International experience shows that the consumption and harm of these blends of distilled alcohol called sodas has increased, especially among young people, as the availability of beverages has increased. As a result of this proposal, sales would not actually increase as if in volume but would increase consumption. There would be no need for more sellers and therefore the employment impact on grocery stores will be limited and, overall, they may be even negative if restaurant consumption decreases in relation to other consumption and if the Alko network still needs to be significantly reduced. As a result of this proposal, it is estimated that 70 % of the sales of beer, cider and tentacles would be lost, a total of EUR 100 million, which would be the same amount as the increase in sales in the grocery trade. Well, the proposal is also justified by the fact that this would generate more alcohol tax revenue — estimated at around EUR 65 million — but that the cost of alcohol harm would increase at least in the same order. And the most tragic of all would be the human cost. Alcoholic deaths would increase by 150 per year and hospitalisation periods by 1,500 per year. And significant increases would be needed in order to maintain order, in prison and in the judiciary. As you read this performance, it comes to mind that history has not been learned. Yes, our history shows quite inexorably that alcohol harm increases directly in relation to total consumption. The release of medium beer 69 did not reduce the drinking of spirits on the basis of which it was justified, but increased overall consumption and disadvantages. The same happened in connection with the change in 95 C.E. And when the Vanhanen government reduced the alcohol tax by 30 percent in 2003, the explanatory statement of that proposal estimated that it would cause about 600 more alcohol deaths a year, and unfortunately that prophecy came true just as it was. It is therefore very credible that this prediction of 150 additional deaths will, unfortunately, also come true if this proposal goes through. Since 2008, total alcohol consumption and harm and mortality have decreased. It has been delighted that alcohol consumption among young people has decreased, and that is true. Five successive tax increases and restrictions on advertising have worked and produced results. This positive trend must not now be jeopardised. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the reform will increase health inequalities between population groups. Alcohol consumption and harm are already concentrated on the socially disadvantaged sections of the population, and in this respect this proposal unfortunately fails to meet the objectives of the Constitution or the Government Programme. Well, this proposal is also justified in response to the tax revenue lost as a result of passenger imports. However, passenger imports this year have been in a downward trend, contrary to what was claimed here in the speeches of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u164	Madam President! Hardly anyone disputes the major public health and social disadvantages of alcohol. Alcohol is a big deal. In terms of public health, the tip of the iceberg is almost 3,000 annual deaths, more than ten times as many as road deaths. Socially speaking, it is a question of the burdens of social services and police work, the problems of working life, the burden of families, health inequalities and high costs. Is alcohol a matter for the individual, as the industry likes to emphasise and as was the case here in the debate? That's what it is, too. But is alcohol also a matter for society? Yes, it is. Even according to the Constitution, the state must promote the health of its citizens. By means of research, which experts have pointed out here, alcohol consumption can be substantially affected and harm reduced without substantially restricting anyone's access to alcohol. The key, therefore, is price and availability. Proper education is always necessary, but it does not have much direct effect. There is now a project aimed at harmonising and modernising alcohol legislation and reducing unnecessary bureaucracy. There is a great deal of agreement on that. But this is also about the upper limit for alcohol sold in shops. Deciding on this is no more red tape than deciding, for example, the size of speed limits, as has been said here. Most people have an opinion on how alcohol harm should be reduced, and they were heard in this Chamber. Many of them are good, but now we have to make concrete decisions about the alcoholic on the table. It has been properly prepared in consultation with experts in the field — except for a section which came later on on the basis of political guidance and which led to conflicts between the grounds and the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u169	Madam President! It is good to remember that alcohol is a combustion waste, every drop of which causes dependence on the central nervous system. No matter what kind of liquid it's wrapped in, it's causing major damage, whether we believe it or not. This is perhaps the most contradictory bill I have ever read. Perhaps the best part of the bill is that it is an opponent of itself. As has been said here, 60 pages explain why this is a bad law. So it could be said that it is an exceptionally good bill. It contains so much information about the drawbacks of the presentation that it inevitably raises the question in the reader and listener as to why to bring a presentation that produces so much suffering, deaths, increased disorder of order control, drunken driving and so on and so on. Why bring a bill that already says in the explanatory statement that it will cause more than 150 additional deaths? What kind of parliament is that Parliament that feels that this is an ethically and morally excellent performance when we are able to produce more deaths in this way? I'm just asking, I'm not moralizing. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u172	Madam President! The government's proposal for new alcohol legislation is generally good. Most of the points in the bill, such as the right of small breweries to sell beer directly from manufacturing sites and the reduction of the heavy-duty rules in restaurants, are very good and necessary. This will bring about the dismantling of unnecessary standards in the tourism and nutrition sectors and trade disciplines and give small breweries the opportunity to develop their activities. There are many inappropriate restrictions in the current acquis which have little impact on alcohol consumption or the harm it causes, and these should be abandoned. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government is committed to deregulating unnecessary regulation, and the overall reform of the alcohol law reflects this objective. By allowing direct sales of farm wine and craft beer, we give the opportunity to sell craft beers in connection with the manufacturing site. By allowing outsales to small breweries, we promote tourism and also support the vitality of rural areas. This will increase the profitability of the sector and support the conditions for competition in small breweries. I do not think artisan beer enthusiasts are actually those who suffer from major alcohol problems when their use focuses on quality rather than quantity. I also welcome the reduction of staff skills requirements and the dismantling of other restrictions on the allocation of human resources. This will facilitate employment in the restaurant sector and guide alcohol consumption from home to restaurants and other controlled facilities. In spite of these positive elements of the law, I cannot escape the fact that the bill now in the referral debate also has extensive public health and therefore harmful effects on well-being. In its own opinion, the Medical Society Duodecim stated in January that the introduction of more potent 5,5 % alcoholic beverages into stores, kiosks and service stations was the most significant change to the worse. This is also a threshold issue for me in this draft law and is strongly at odds with the purpose of the law. If stronger alcoholic beverages are sold in shops, kiosks and service stations in the future, it will inevitably mean better availability, not only with more offices but also with free opening hours, as well as lower prices. Additional supply creates additional demand. The start now has about 350 sales sites. The proposed change would mean that these stronger alcohol products will be sold at 5300 sales points in the context of daily trading. This would also mean selling these products more widely in the future than Alko's opening hours allow, for example, on Sundays. Easier access means an increase in consumption and thus more alcohol-related harm. Among other things, the rates of abuse and alcohol-dependent liver disease deaths have increased at the same rate as the increase in consumption. THL statistics show that overall alcohol consumption is crucial for harm, rather than the type of alcohol used. The National Institute for Health and Welfare has prepared a scenario based on an increase in the average strength of alcoholic products from 4.5% to 5% and a net increase of 5% in sales per litre. In such a scenario, total alcohol consumption would increase by 6 per cent. In THL estimates, alcohol-related mortality would increase in proportion to total alcohol consumption. This would mean an estimated 145 more alcohol - related deaths per year. According to THL’s estimate, a comparable relative increase in alcohol-related diseases would mean at least 1500 hospitalisation cycles per year. For me, these are huge figures. In its Government Programme, Juha Sipilä's Government is committed to promoting well-being and health as a goal for Finns to be better able and health and well-being differences to be narrowed. The Government also has a key project to promote health and well-being and reduce health inequalities, which aims, among other things, to promote healthy lifestyles. In my own political activity, I am committed to these objectives. If alcohol harm were to decrease especially among men and the lowest socio-economic groups, Finnish society would be closer to equality in health. However, this is not happening. This objective is not supported by easier access to stronger alcoholic beverages, as harm is not prevented by increasing the risk of increased consumption. In this Chamber, too, many advocate a very free alcohol policy in the name of individual freedom and the needs of the business community. However, it is inevitable that what is referred to as individual freedom in this alcohol debate will entail significant social costs. The direct costs of alcohol are estimated to be between EUR 1.2 billion and EUR 1.4 billion per year, including for the social and health sector and for the police. Costs also arise from accidents and crime, as well as sickness allowances and pensions paid as a result of alcohol-related illnesses or accidents. Nor can we minimize the human suffering caused by alcohol for individuals and families. Alcohol harm is also visible in working life and it is also very common for bystanders, because alcohol is a major cause of traffic damage. According to studies, Finns experience the harm caused by other people’s drinking more frequently than people in other Nordic countries. For me, individual freedom is also the freedom to feel safe both in the home and in transport, for example. It must be remembered that a large proportion of people at risk of alcohol are in work, you and I as co-workers. It is estimated that about 60 per cent of people who are dependent on alcohol are employed. The transition to stronger alcohol and the increase in total alcohol consumption will inevitably reduce labour productivity, increase sick absenteeism and mean more and more people being unable to work and excluded from working life. This social price tag is huge — at the same time as trying to get the economy to a stronger growth path. Mr President! Article 19(3) of the Constitution entrusts the public authority with the task of promoting the health of the population and of supporting the possibilities of family and other child care providers to safeguard the well-being of the child and individual growth. This obligation is a strong counterweight to individual freedom when weighing the bill. If we now accept the Government's proposal in the referral debate as it stands, we will make it aware, among other things, of the increase in consumption, the increase in alcohol pollution, the increase in the number of police alerts and the need for additional resources of around EUR 10 to 15 million, the increase in the number of large consumers and the increase in young people's drinking. Are we prepared to accept these consequences on the pretext of individual freedom or increased consumer benefit? However, what is an increasing freedom of the individual and therefore desirable for others is a great disadvantage for many families and working communities and, ultimately, an additional cost for society. It is good to remember that alcohol is currently the single most serious threat to health and well-being in Finland. Alcohol policy enables us, if we wish, to contribute to reducing harmful alcohol consumption, thereby contributing to the objectives of the Government Programme. Reducing harmful alcohol consumption will also reduce the significant harm that users of alcoholic beverages cause to their loved ones and to their environment. Mr President! The text of this comprehensive reform of the Alcohol Act explicitly recognises that increasing the availability of alcohol does not contribute to the purpose of the laws aimed at protecting children and young people and that the increasing and deepening of the harm experienced by children and families increases the need for child protection measures. Yet, in the name of individual freedom, do we want to bring more alcoholic beverages into the realm of easier access? Mr President! By resisting the details of the bill, you are easily accused of being conservative and of the longing for prohibition. Media and some neighbouring parties have also been accused of deliberately delaying the reform of the law. This is not the case, however. Ultimately, it is a question of responsible decision-making and whether, when the law is adopted, it is intended to recognise the consequences of public health and well-being for the police and social and health professionals, among others. As a legislator and a health professional, I cannot ignore these facts and expert knowledge. The wise negotiating solution between the government parties on the so-called free hand in the vote on alcohol law means that now each of us has a genuine opportunity to make our own personal decision and take a stand. No one can hide behind group discipline.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u173	Madam President! I would like to start by pointing out two things, first of all what we are actually talking about. So here we are talking about alcohol, which, according to modern knowledge, is such a poison for the body that if we were to try to legalize this poison and bring it to the market today, it would never be allowed to do so. Secondly, I would like to remind you of what we discussed in this Chamber last week and what there seems to be a great deal of consensus on. A week ago, as I mentioned earlier, the Sustainable Development Agenda, Agenda 2030, was discussed in this Chamber and one of the most important principles was policy coherence. There must be no conflict between the various aspects of policy. Sustainable well-being must be pursued in a coherent and long-term way. Parliament representatives should implement the principles of sustainable development in all their actions and decisions. This was also called for by the Ministry. Now, a week later, this principle should clearly be put into practice, action to promote the health and well-being of citizens. At the beginning of its presentation, the government has listed a very long list of serious and increasing health and other problems caused by alcohol, increased alcohol deaths and so on. The most dangerous proposal is to bring stronger alcoholic beverages to grocery stores, kiosks and service stations, and, on the other hand, a significant change in the way in which they are produced. From the point of view of drunkenness and dangerous health effects, it is quite different whether to use mild beer or 5.5% beer. Not only does the change in the way it is produced allow the sale of sodas that have already been identified as the source of alcohol for children in Europe, but it would also allow the sale of many completely new kinds of alcohol-containing products in the grocery store, such as alcohol powders, gums, alcohol ice creams and so on. The field is almost limitless. All actors except the Federation of the Brewing Party and trade representatives are strongly opposed to these proposed changes. None of the expert organisations, health and social service providers and organisations specialised in the prevention of substance abuse, supported these legislative proposals. There was a strong concern in the opinions that the proposal would target the benefits to the alcohol industry and outsource the disadvantages and costs to the public sector. Not only the Finnish Medical Association, the Finnish Healthcare Association, the Akava nurses, Talentia and the Talentis of Intoxicant abuse work, the STTK, the Near and Basic Nurses' Association, and the SAK and the Trade Union in Services reacted negatively to the draft proposal. The draft law was only supported by the Federation of Food Workers, which considered the changes to have a positive impact on the employment of the brewery sector. This government proposal contradicts the Government's health and well-being project, the project aimed at changing child and family services and the social welfare reform. Representatives of various organisations and trade unions have consistently stressed this. Who will finally support this motion? Who needs this? The majority of the people do not need stronger alcoholic beverages for local shops. Business and money push some players and representatives to speak for change. However, we as parliamentarians must act in the interests of sustainable development, in the interests of sustainable well-being. Every one of us in this House is responsible to this people. Have some actually voted for a representative who promotes the availability of chemotherapy and does not take responsibility for other citizens? I have repeated several times that those who have previously thought to support the alcohol bill's proposals to bring stronger drinks into the local store should go and explore the realities of life at health centres, the everyday life of police and child protection. The only way I can try to understand you who are in favour of these changes is to think that you really do not know what the current situation is and what you are doing. I think that anyone who has seen even a small fraction of what health professionals, the police and the child welfare community have seen cannot possibly support these changes, unless there is — and allow me to be blunt — an absolutely hardened, stone-hearted decision-maker or, in any case, a completely indifferent person acting out of his own desire for comfort. On the other hand, an arrow can hit its own ankle. Kaarlo Simojoki, Chief Medical Officer of the A-Clinic Foundation, has stated that the majority of patients with serious alcohol-related health problems, 70-80%, are ordinary, working, normally working citizens who have only had the habit of taking that beer after a working day but weekly, on a regular basis. As a complete surprise to many, the liver has then at some point withdrawn its contract. According to a study by THL, the majority of those who are now in health problems due to alcohol have been quite ordinary citizens some years earlier. So when you look back a few years, unfortunately, some of the people in this house also have problems with alcohol, even though life seems to be quite the way it is now. Alcohol - induced diseases, especially liver diseases, are increasing dramatically. Mortality to liver diseases and cirrhosis has already risen fastest in Finland from European countries. It is alcohol that accounts for 85 percent of cirrhosis deaths, and this would only increase. It should be noted that even consumption of alcohol in smaller quantities is already causing considerable damage. There is far too little talk about the elderly when we talk about the use of drugs. Around 5-10% of people over the age of 65 are addicted to drugs, whereas the number of over-uses, high-risk and problem users and the number of elderly people who are mixed with drugs and drugs is unknown. However, it is known that fewer and fewer ageing people are sober and that the abuse of older medicines has increased. It should be noted that hops over 60 years of age already raise the risk of accidents 3 to 5 times. In an aged body, water levels are reduced and the fat content is increased, reducing the volume of distribution of certain medicines and alcohol and increasing concentrations. This in turn means greater adverse effects and interactions: the elimination of medicines from the body slows down as the function of the liver and kidneys is impaired. Intoxicant tolerance is reduced and drug withdrawal symptoms become more severe. The immediate consequences of mixed use can be surprising for the user and his/her loved ones. Increased alcohol effects, memory difficulties, aggressive behaviour and confusion are among the most common. In view of the elderly, it is what is found in the local store that is very important. Well, then, what about the smallest? The smallest voice is the worst in a conversation about alcohol. The voice of children and young people generally goes unheard of, and even in the preparation of the alcohol law, the assessment of its effects on children remained vague and the least considered are the silent, yet unborn children, although it is for them that alcohol can cause a lifelong disability. During pregnancy, alcohol consumption is one of the main factors causing mental retardation in Western countries and is also the only one that could be completely prevented. According to various statistics, little is born in Finland every year from 600 to as many as 3,000 babies who have suffered some alcohol damage during the gestational period. Here it is good to remember that alcohol damage is not only caused by very heavy or persistent alcohol consumption but can also be caused by occasional or relatively small single doses. Here it is good to remember that not only the environment but also the society as a whole's attitude to alcohol is of great importance to families who are expecting a child. The easier alcohol is available, the wider it is in everyday life and the more alcohol-friendly our culture is, the greater the risk it poses to the unborn. Madam President! [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u174	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The great aim of the overall reform of alcohol law is to reduce the harm caused by alcohol. Unfortunately, the content of the law fights against that goal. However, the overall reform is welcome, since our legislation is already based on the 30s, and many of its components will then be in the later decades, and therefore the whole law will be very fragmented. In my own speech, I am focusing specifically on the assessment of health problems. According to THL’s estimate, which many experts agree with, total alcohol consumption would increase by 6% as the bill came into effect. The increase in consumption can be derived from factors independent of tax changes. Total alcohol consumption has tripled since the 1960s. The strongest growth was when the middle beer came to the grocery stores and after the so - called liquor card was removed: alcohol consumption more than doubled in a short period of time. Since then, alcohol consumption has been dependent on tax policy and advertising bans. The fall in alcohol tax has increased consumption, and the rise in alcohol prices has reduced consumption. Over the past ten years, the alcohol tax has been tightened repeatedly. This, together with the general economic recession, has decreased the total consumption of alcohol by about 10 per cent. Finns drink half of all the alcohol they drink as beer. Therefore, the strength of beer will have a decisive effect on the total amount of alcohol consumed and the incidence of harm. The beer is currently 90 per cent consumed as middle beer. Therefore, the percentage of the strength of easily accessible Peruvian cells is crucial for the development of total consumption. The Government's proposal proposes to increase the strength of beer sold in retail to 5.5% and to allow the sale of cocktails regardless of the way in which it is manufactured. Increasing the number of sales points and increasing sales times, especially at weekends, will make access easier, and sales promotions will lower the price. These combined increase the consumption of beer in particular. The decline in alcohol consumption among young people threatens to turn into an increase in consumption, especially due to improved availability of sodas in the evenings and on weekends close to the youth residences. Total alcohol consumption has had a direct correlation with the incidence of alcohol deaths in history. Why not repeat this now and in the future? The introduction of strong beer and alcohol blends into retail, kiosk and service stations is estimated to result in 150 additional deaths per year due to alcohol diseases. Alcohol-induced liver disease deaths amount to about 1,000 per year, which is four times more than traffic deaths. The total number of alcohol-related deaths exceeds 3000. In Finland, for example, the total number of deaths due to alcohol-related diseases is more than twice as high as in Denmark, although the consumption of alcohol per capita by Danes is 2 litres higher than in Finland. So what is the problem in Finland? As a result of the law, it is estimated that the price of alcohol will fall by 40%. The price also has a direct correlation with the purchase and use of alcohol. The growth in alcohol consumption threatens the most vulnerable population groups. There is a risk that health inequalities will increase further, that there will be more disruptions in order and that there will be more police, that there will be more family nausea and that there will be more work for the social workers. There is also evidence of the effects on cancer reproduction. Even conservatively, the total cost of alcohol harm is over EUR 5 billion per year, which, in addition to direct harm, has an important impact on working life, absenteeism and family welfare. Increasing consumption thus increases the burden on public finances. At the same time, it reduces the cost-payers as the working power decreases and absenteeism, disability and death increases. In the Member States of the European Union, alcohol policy has, as a general rule, been tightened up in the 21st century — 69 restrictive measures have been taken and 19 measures have been taken to liberalise access to alcohol. The overall reform of alcohol legislation under preparation will liberalise the supply of alcohol in Finland. Finland is therefore heading in the wrong direction. We need the overall reform of the alcohol law now under discussion, but in such a way that the total volume of alcohol sold and used does not increase but supports entrepreneurship and reduces red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u175	It is approaching five o'clock, after which the agenda will be moved forward, but we will have time to take one more floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u179	At this point, the debate and proceedings shall be suspended as agreed in advance. The discussion and debate will continue in this plenary session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u180	The debate on item 3 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session will now continue. Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u181	Madam President! Firstly, as I said earlier in my line, the government proposal is in line with the government programme — regulation and bureaucracy are being dismantled — and, for the most part, it is well to be supported. What has received the most attention in this debate and what has been spoken about is this percentage issue. Actually, I'm fine with any percentage. It can be between 0 and 100, as long as it works in such a way that it is a sustainable and good solution for Finland and Finland and society. Apparently, however, there will be a movement somewhere between the present percentage and some upward percentages. This is a subject which has raised a lot of debate during this parliamentary term and during the previous parliamentary term. Information has been shared, there is also a considerable amount of disinformation, there is sense and reason, lobbying, even pressure, negotiations, debates, agreements and the re-opening of agreements. The air is full of percentages and promilles, deregulation, guardianship and problem-use, moderate use, entrepreneurship, promotion of tourism, tax revenue and increased social security costs, and increased police duties and disorderly behaviour, and an increase in Southern European alcohol culture in Finland. It is a little difficult to get a reliable picture of all of this at this stage of what would now be the kind of model we could move forward with. I myself have thought about it in such a way that those parts of which there is a very broad consensus would be elements that could be taken forward, and perhaps then, with regard to these percentages, it is worth looking very carefully at the report and the statements that are being made there, and, if there is any doubt, then perhaps take a time-out and come back to it later. In that debate, I made it clear that it would have been possible, in line with the Government Programme's guidelines, to proceed through experiments, a culture of experimentation, through cross-border maliens. And such a model could have been the introduction of a higher percentage limit in a region, such as Lapland, which has a lot of tourism, tourism, and the results, for example, over a four-year period. If the results are positive — tax revenue increases, disturbance does not increase, and things go smoothly ahead — then, without greater risk, it can be extended by a percentage point to the country as a whole. And then the other way around: if the results are worrying, then at least we will not expand and perhaps pull back in that direction. Well, this is a little theoretical at this point. You don't do this. That is what I tried to suggest to the Minister at that stage of preparation, but it was no longer possible to bring it in at that stage. Of this percentage, when much has been discussed: an increase of 0.8 percentage points seems small, of course. Of course, percentage units and percentages are different. If increased from 4.7 to 5.5, the increase is 0.8 percentage points. However, in percentages the increase is 17%, and of course it is already of far greater importance. In the same way, if you raise or lower your salary by 0.8% or 17%, that is quite different. The increase has been considered insignificant, it has been said that such a small increase has no particular effect, a great deal of significance. Of course, the answer may then be that if it is not of great importance, then why should it necessarily be done at this stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u184	Madam President! This is not an answer; this is the answer question. — I would have liked the representative to have mentioned what you mean by the unions and by taking financial responsibility. It is a very interesting view of what kind of organisations and various bodies you mean in general, and I can then respond in my own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u185	Mr President! The congressman asked which unions have provided information. Perhaps representatives who have followed their emails and letters closely may have noticed that we have been approached by, for example, the Federation of the Brewery and the Federation of Commerce. And I would like to emphasise: There's nothing wrong with that. They're doing exactly what they're supposed to do. They look at things from the point of view of what is economically meaningful to them. It is our job to filter out the information we get from different directions, to draw it together and to do as it says in the Government Programme, to lead this country with knowledge and to make decisions on the basis of it. That is what I was referring to when I was just talking about these unions. There must be other marriages, but these were the first ones to come to mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u188	And now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u189	Värderade Herr Talman! Det finns flera goda element i lagförslaget gällande att minska byråkratin och som stöder restaurantbranchen, vilket är viktigt då det kan innebära att mer alkohol förtärs på barer och restauranter i tillet för immen. Det bull ärkommet. I förslaget om alkoollagen föreslås det också att det ska bli öjligt för små bryggerier att sälja ut Dir. från bryggeret. Det är mycket bra. Vi har en boom av microbrygger runt om i Finland. De skapar inte bara arbetsplatser, utan de små bryggerna kan också bli nya touristdestinationer på sina orter. Att därför underlätta för små bryggerier är bra. Det finns dock ett problemm med förslaget, vilket jag också lyfte upp kopp koh tidigare med ministern på plats, och det är att gränsen sätts till bara 500000 liter. Den gränsen är problematisk effectsom den riskerar att snedvrida kkonkurrensen små bryggerer emellan. Ett exempel är Åland, där vi har TVå små bryggerer. Det ena bryggeriet brygger under 500000 liter per år, det andra brygger 800000 liter per år. De är små i jämförelse med de stora bryggerna som brygger 100 million liter per år, men de täh TVå bryggerna kommer ändå att få en ojämn concurrency tuation på den lokala marknaden. Därför skulle jag önska att litergränsen för bryggernas utförsäljning skulle tas bort. Om man inte vill ta bort gränsen kunde en logisk gräns i ställett reserve 10 million liter. Det är den gränsen som i dag finns för små, Oberoende bryggerier som får kattelättnader.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u190	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say that for a very long time I have been allowed to be a Member of Parliament, and when today's debate has led to the impression that the availability of alcohol is a major problem for Finnish people, that they are not getting enough booze as it were, I can say yes that, in the course of this 18-year parliamentary experience, I have not received a single message, a message in any way which would have complained that when you are not getting alcohol, but that the things that people are sending us here have more to do with how you see alcohol as harmful in people's own lives. But, Mr President, as I have already said in that debate, the overall reform of the alcohol law, which I was allowed to take part in last year, is necessary, because this law is obsolete in many places, and it is good to note that the preparatory work already carried out in the last period involved the elements that we have been told here today as a norm. Even then, it was strongly thought that certain practices, such as those required of restaurants, would no longer correspond to this day. However, whenever the alcohol law is amended, it must be possible to balance between industrial policy, employment policy and health policy, and unfortunately the government has chosen its side in this balance, and the balance is very much tilted towards the business world, because the availability of alcohol is being proposed and public health and Finnish people will be the loser. It might be said that with this experience I have not yet found a study or heard an expert who says that harm would be reduced as access is increased. On the contrary, both the World Health Organisation, the World Economic Forum and the OECD have stated that access and price are the key instruments for reducing total alcohol consumption. The moderate increases in alcohol tax in the last period and also the reforms in alcohol advertising have turned Finland's total consumption downwards, but this proposal, which is now in our hands today, unfortunately undermines this good development. Unfortunately, the Minister did not have time to comment at least on this debate, which is why the voice of health policy experts on this particular issue has been ignored when this political decision has been taken on this issue. President! It is very positive that the consumption of alcohol by Finnish minors, children and young people has decreased over the last few years, but this good trend does not need the soda liquor now being presented on the shelves of the store as a stumbling block. Last season, after all, we achieved a very progressive law on alcohol advertising, which aimed in particular to protect children and young people from the world that often offers false images of alcohol advertising. The government bill on alcohol is taking this progress in the wrong direction. In this debate, the business community has raised very strongly the issue of imports of alcohol by travellers. I think this has even played an unnecessary role. Of course, we do not want our tax revenue to go elsewhere, and, as we know, passenger imports have unfortunately also been accompanied by features which are not entirely in line with Finnish legislation. However, even so, passenger imports are only one part of the alcohol policy and it seems rather unusual to put it at the centre, especially now that significant tax increases have been made and are being made in Estonia. It would have been good to have seen the effects of these decisions first before we rush into the decisions now being presented to us on this percentage limit. President! Based on my experience last season, I can tell you that it's felt like it sometimes, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u193	Mr President! There are a lot of things to support in this bill, but from the point of view of health policy this is unacceptable as it is. In particular, there are two points in the draft law, most of which are the result of adverse consequences. They are allowing the sale of stronger alcoholic beverages and so-called soda wines in grocery stores, kiosks and service stations. According to THL, the amendment is expected to affect the volume and strength of Finnish alcoholic beverages. We are well aware that improving access and diversification will increase consumption of almost any product, and alcohol is hardly an exception. An increase in the average strength of alcoholic beverages in grocery stores would lead to an increase in total alcohol consumption by around 6 per cent. A 6% increase in consumption would mean 145 more alcohol-related deaths per year in alcohol-related mortality. A corresponding relative increase in alcohol-related diseases would mean an increase of at least 1,500 hospitalisations, even if conservatively estimated. Different alcohol barriers go hand in hand with the total consumption of alcohol. Alcohol related harm is also a key cause for increasing health inequalities. They account for one fifth of the social-group mortality differences between men and one sixth among women. Alcohol accounts for nearly 70 per cent of the increase in the mortality gap among men. The direct costs of alcohol consumption are approximately 1.4 billion. Direct costs arise from accidents and crime, maintenance of order and security, health care costs and similar costs. In addition to these, there will be indirect costs such as disability pensions and loss of work in sick leave. The cost of these too amounts to nearly one billion a year. How on earth can we afford this? Mr President! The official’s greetings to the legislative reform can be summarised as follows: This is Tero Seppänen, Häme police officer, who has said this: "When the availability of alcohol increases, consumption also increases. There is a positive correlation between alcohol consumption and police duties and certain crimes. So the more alcohol is consumed, the more it appears as police duties. From the point of view of the police, it is difficult to increase availability regardless of time. The police have to be prepared to deal with intoxication-related disorder at all times of the day, and when resources have to be distributed more evenly, it is not possible to invest in demand surges as it is today." Minister Risikko has also said here in Parliament on several occasions that the reform of the alcohol law will increase the need for policemen. The need to increase the number of police officers has been estimated to be 300 police officers. In addition, the comments of the hospital staff on this bill, mainly emergency services and emergency services, have often been rather negative. A direct comment from a nurse: "I agree with the Panimoliitto that a change in the law will increase work, but in the social welfare and health services we would not want more work when there is already so much work." In first aid and on-call services, the number of customers will increase further as a result of this legislative amendment, and now a significant proportion of patients and customers are intoxicated. For example, according to a survey conducted at Kuusankoski Regional Hospital, one in four patients was under the influence of alcohol at the initial accident visit and almost one in two patients on weekends. According to a study conducted at Kuopio University Hospital, alcohol caused 18 per cent of intensive care days. Mr President! However, I am particularly concerned about children and young people. Although alcohol consumption among young people has generally decreased, the exception is young people with depression and young people who come from families with economic and social problems. The reform of the Alcohol Act would allow for the sale of stronger alcoholic beverages from retailers, which will increase the strength and variety of alcoholic beverages that young people prefer, such as beer, cider, long drinks and sweetened and flavour-containing cocktails, that is, these so-called sodas, in retail sales. This puts at risk the positive development of minors in alcohol consumption and potentially increases social inequalities. The reason for the bill has also been that we have much stricter legislation in international comparisons than other countries. There are restrictions, including strict restrictions, in many other countries. In addition, it should be noted that if we look at legislative changes relating to the taxation and availability of alcohol in the EU countries over the next few years, there have been 14 liberalising changes and 69 more restrictive changes. In conclusion, the experts agree that the proposal increases consumption and, at the same time, disadvantages. If we have the objective of reducing alcohol harm, then this bill is perverse. Alcoholic harm is not reduced by selling more alcohol. A number of opinions concluded that increased access to the labour market is particularly detrimental to the well-being of children, young people and families and is an increase in differences in well-being and health between the population groups. In addition, alcohol-related harm was also estimated to have a negative impact on the working capacity and productivity of the population. The Government's own proposal also describes the impact on working life as follows: "A large proportion of people who are at risk of alcohol consumption and a significant proportion of people who are dependent on alcohol are also at work. Increasing alcohol consumption in this area increases the risk of incapacity for work and becoming unemployed, making it more difficult to extend working lives and manage the sustainability gap. Even in a milder form, the increase in alcohol consumption among working-age people is reflected in the loss of labour input and production through hangover days, accidents and periods of illness." So this is from the government's own proposal. It is incomprehensible how the opinions of experts have been completely ignored in this bill. At the end of the day, Mr President, I would have liked this bill to have guided people more into the use of restaurant services. Now I'm afraid home use will increase instead of going to a restaurant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u194	Mr President! As an extension of what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just said, it is good to start with what I, as the first member of the opposition, would like to criticise this bill: very poorly prepared, completely preventing the change in alcohol policy. If we are talking about cultural change, then this legislative proposal has nothing to do with it. The fall in VAT on nutritional conditions would have been the way that should have been done. I wonder that there is no business knowledge in this board of directors, no understanding of how many jobs have been lost — Mara has estimated that between 10,000 and 15,000 jobs have been lost in this country in the last 20 years in service, accommodation and catering sectors. It is amazing how it is the bourgeois government that succumbs to such blindness that it does not understand that the management of the culture of business and the enabling alcohol culture should have been at the heart of this legislation. Counting the restaurant alvi would have made it possible for us to move back, not to use the word 'controlled conditions', but to the circumstances where we have a comfortable environment that provides services. In that way, I would believe that Mikko Alatalo, the representative of the Centre Party, would rather start the job at ten o'clock in the evening than at the present time at 24 hours and after that. Our restaurant culture has fallen in the wrong direction, because alcohol retail prices are expensive at Alko and we have cheap alcohol coming through Estonia, and we are squinting at home, so to speak, first the bottoms and then we start to enjoy our restaurant services just before midnight. I do not know whether it is even possible to hope that the committee will deal with this issue, too, in order to return to the tax debate, in order to have mixed alcohols which now come into trade with this draft law, so to speak, been treated more harshly and thus to have made it possible for me to have this tax gap of around EUR 100 million that would have been known what would have been the result of the calculation of alcohol in restaurants. I very much hope that this debate can take place and at least have the seed sprouted so that the next governments can see if they can actually change the drinking culture and at the same time support the business world in such a way that it also employs employees better in this country. We must remember that the President today raised one good point: this law does not just go to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but is also dealt with in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. We have a great deal of reach for that sector, too. We currently have some 1500 contract farmers in primary production, whose labour input is used in the final product so that we currently have Finnish Altia producing liquor in this country and thereby employing a large number of Finnish agricultural entrepreneurs and, through primary production, also food workers and industry. The representative, Mr Turunen, took a good, opening speech here on what should have been done here. This government failed to deal with the fact that, at the moment, we are selling alcohol products via Alko, we have the possibility of marketing through shipping companies and airlines, that our own domestic producers of alcohol are completely excluded from this marketing. There is no such possibility, but we are in an unequal position because of its great export potential: our alcohol manufacturers cannot have products on their website and so on. Was it in 14 C.E. last time this marketing ban was clarified and steeped when we painted a few large cans of beer on the highways when it had harmful effects, and it was a good thing that, for young people and children, the marketing of alcohol did not reach there. But as far as jobs in our industry are concerned, the government's draft law itself is a torso, so it should still be changed vigorously in committee so that, in this country, non-state-owned Altia is on an equal footing with its export efforts. As far as the business sector is concerned, it is unreasonable that we have some private manufacturers in a different position than the state-owned Alt, and I hope that this government will be able to make a positive contribution in order to raise this problem in committee and try to raise more issues. Well, today there have been speeches from this toilet, whose users have called themselves flower hat aunts. On the basis of this debate, which I have heard here, I would now change the title to flower hat helmets, so now we are shooting hard. In my opinion, it is right that the adverse effects of the government's own legislative initiative should be brought up without any sarcasm. They are facts that exist, but I do not personally focus on them. I still wonder, in the context of this overall reform of alcohol law, what the potential would have been for us to increase our alcohol culture. Restaurants need those standard bites. It is inconceivable that we have the same kiosk, which door we go through, buy beer and get to drink it there but not to take it out. And you go out the other door to buy, you can't drink in there, but you can take it out. In that sense, the government has brought a good thing out of the crack of standards. And as a special bonus, the resale right of small breweries, which is finally welcome in this country, has been corrected by the government since many legislative initiatives. But when it comes to saying that the opening hours of the bars are in free hands, the previous speech was about hangovers and their work-out, but I do not think we can get a hangover if we leave the bar at 5:00 and get six jobs — there is no more time to get a hangover. On the other hand, if we had lowered the alcohol alvia, we would, in my view, have left without the foundations to start that restaurant night perhaps earlier and thus changed this culture. So the sum summarum: I have to say that the committee has a lot of work to do, a lot of energy. Hopefully, this could still be changed to include those sections that could genuinely change the Finnish drinking culture for the better. I do not want much of a European drinking culture, but if the restaurant alves are not counted, it means a step back to Estonia and then with the wines.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u195	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski made a very valuable and important speech, which is easy to agree with. Indeed, there is reason to try to support the restaurant industry and to move even more towards restaurants. Now, however, we must remember that we have this concrete bill here, it must be decided, and selling stronger beers outside restaurants is a setback for restaurants. As far as this tax issue is concerned, it was a very important debate, but we are not discussing this tax at this stage. This tax law will then come to a separate committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u196	Then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u197	Mr President! Today, there have been emotional speeches in this Chamber and stories about the harm of alcohol. Especially when you are saved from alcohol curses or have a religious background, it is easy to be critical of alcohol and to demand it from others. I have a glassy childhood behind me, a hard-core home education and experience in police work with the harm of alcohol. With these backgrounds in mind, it is almost impossible to be neutral about alcohol. However, I am only trying to stick to the truth in my speech and not to the assumptions that we have heard quite enough today. It is estimated that 100,000 children live in a family where the use of parental drugs causes different levels of harm to the child. For a child, seeing a parent drunk can be a distressing experience even when it is random and the parent has no actual substance abuse problem. From a child’s point of view, alcohol is a frightening substance that turns a familiar and safe adult into a guest. Reflecting on alcohol use from a child’s point of view would be the responsibility of each parent. Support for children living in intoxicant abuse families requires all occupational groups working with children. The main principle behind the overall reform of the Alcohol Act should be to reduce alcohol-related harm. It is justified to update the existing alcohol law because some of its provisions no longer reflect current practices. Updating and reform work should primarily be carried out to promote the health and well-being of citizens. The positive development of Finnish people's alcohol consumption in recent years must be supported by all means. A free alcohol culture based on moderate use is often set as a desirable ideal when discussing the deregulation of alcohol consumption. Responsible alcohol consumption is part of life in many families, and an alcohol climate that supports responsibility and moderation is absolutely desirable. The joys of alcohol consumption should not be pursued if the price is harmful to children. Tolku’s alcohol policy is balanced in its ability to take responsible promotion of alcohol consumption and prevention of harm. In particular, raising the availability of alcohol and increasing the overall consumption are of particular concern from the children’s point of view. Alcohol consumption during pregnancy in our country causes up to 1,000 children at different levels each year, including growth disorders, learning difficulties, social development problems, FAS syndromes, central nervous system failure and malformation. Even moderate alcohol consumption during pregnancy always increases the risk of foetal damage. I would remind you that alcohol is never just an individual's own business or the consequences of its use only on each's own responsibility, since the high consumption of alcohol also affects the whole circle seriously. The increase in alcohol consumption will increase human suffering in thousands of families, causing mental health problems, exclusion, foetal damage, custody and child insecurity. I think it would be a good idea to carry out an in-depth assessment of the impact of the reform on children and to change the proposal primarily to the best interests of the children. Mr President! Glass childhood is a reality for many children in every social class. In families where parents drink, children carry a heavy burden. Many times children have to grow up too young. Fortunately, there are peer groups today where you can discuss matters and find that you are not alone in the matter. The feelings of shame and trauma are familiar to each group. Unfortunately, such peer groups are not available in every municipality. In view of police work, many crimes would not be committed without alcohol. As a cop, I haven't noticed so many things that alcohol would have saved. If restaurant opening hours are opened, it will at least increase police work in the quietest suburbs. As we have heard in several speeches today, VAT on restaurants should have been changed in connection with this legislative amendment. I hope that the amendment will also be made to the final law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u198	Mr President! The purpose of the new Alcohol Act is to bring together licensing procedures and to streamline regulation. I believe that it is high time for Finland to move towards a European alcohol culture, and I see that the legislative changes now proposed by the government are heading in the right direction. I myself would be prepared to introduce a more liberal policy and also allow wine for grocery trades. Even with these changes, we would not be in the same situation as in the rest of Europe, where even alcoholic beverages are available on the shelf of the dairy market. The time for the liberalisation of alcohol policy is opportune. The future of Finland, or our young people, is a model for us. Year after year, there has been a positive trend in young people’s lifestyle in the most soberer direction: less hop-oriented drinking, less drinking, and full sobriety is also growing among young people. A reform of alcohol policy is needed. The reasons for hampering the availability of alcohol products by the whole population are running low. Mr President! The release of products containing 5.5% vol. and more alcohol for sale on the market has significant economic and employment implications. In addition, alcohol tax revenue is an important part of the revenue accumulation of the state. The liberalisation of alcohol also creates competition, resulting in a fall in the price level of products. This will be a key factor in competing in international and less regulated markets. The so-called Estonian bottle of wine has already become a concept which means that the necessary tax euros will flow to our southern neighbour. In a globalised world, distances are short, and soon we will no longer compete with our neighbours alone. As a rule, therefore, there are good elements in the performance. One of the concerns that I am concerned about in the reform is the possible disruption of order resulting from the extension of the opening hours of restaurants. It is, of course, up to each restaurant to decide whether opening hours are kept within the limits permitted by law. But if the drunken vertical wrestling during the early hours of the morning is already causing an increase in the duties of the police who are struggling with the resources of operational action, I would be careful with the excessive delay in opening hours. However, the problems are very likely to increase. All in all, I look forward with great interest to where the committee will end up on the matter and what proposals will be made in the Chamber. I myself will be voting for the most liberating option.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u199	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the alcohol law contains a number of major questions, and I also believe that there are problems which we must address very strongly in committee. When you read the bill and its explanatory statement, they clearly explain how it will increase alcohol consumption, increase the consequences of it, such as various diseases, mental health problems, exclusion, family nausea, absenteeism, violence and so on. Moreover, the draft law does not support the positive development of the national economy or sustainable development and does not address the sustainability gap. The effect may even be the opposite. For this reason, I believe that the government's proposal is also contradictory and inconsistent in its efforts to promote the well-being and health of citizens, to increase the prevention of alcohol policy, and, on the other hand, to increase the consumption of alcohol by people as a result of the new alcohol law and, as a result, to reduce people's health, to increase nausea in both the family and society. As has been said several times here today, the government will increase and facilitate the availability of alcohol in kiosks, shops and service stations. At the same time, it increases the percentage of alcohol sold in shops and kiosks and service stations to 5.5% and also exports spirit drinks such as vodkas, whiskeys and rums, kiosks, service stations and retail stores. This means that soda wines, especially for young people, come to the shelves of shops. In the future, young people can buy rum and coke or whiskey from kiosks or service stations. More extensive and longer opening hours also increase the buying and drinking of these beverages. This is likely to lead to an increase in alcohol consumption and consumption. This is regrettable in many ways, as alcohol consumption had started to fall well as a result of the decisions taken by Parliament last year and of various measures taken. This is an example of the fall in alcohol consumption among young people, which in many respects is the result of these decisions and measures. Indeed, it is young people who are particularly concerned about the possible increase in alcohol consumption. The enrichment of beverages increases the total consumption and adverse effects of alcohol in all consumer groups. According to THL’s estimate, total consumption would increase by around 6% when this bill came into effect. This means more than 150 deaths per year and 1500 more hospitalisation periods. A large number of risk consumers would increase. The health damage caused by alcohol does not only affect risk groups, but also affects society as a whole, both in the family and in working life, the need for social and health services to grow, the number of police officers to grow, and so on. In health care, as many as one third of on-call customers are already under alcohol today. In Kuopio University Hospital, alcohol was found to cause 18% of intensive care days. In HUS hospitals, about 300 head injuries requiring intensive care are treated each year, of which 50 percent, or about half, are related to alcohol use. This is the current situation and it is assumed that these will increase in the future. As total consumption rises, side effects such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, visceral diseases and accidents will also increase in all consumer groups. In the preamble to the draft law, the point is summarised as follows: "As the reform increases the total consumption of alcohol, the effects of the reform on people's well-being and health are negative. The reform would also have an impact on increasing health inequalities between population groups." The transition from homes to restaurants has been increasingly the goal of discussions in recent years, but this proposal does not support its implementation. Expanding the choice of alcohol and increasing the availability of alcohol in retail sales will not change our alcohol culture for the better. The diversification of the supply of alcohol in grocery stores and the enrichment of beverages are likely to lead consumption from restaurants to retail stores and thus to homes. In addition to this, alcohol can be bought at restaurants at home, which will guide the drinking of alcohol away from the restaurants. In that respect, the common aim of all of us that alcohol should be consumed more in restaurants and that we should strengthen the European restaurant culture is not the result of this law. The proposal that causes concern is also allowing alcohol to be sold to 16-year-olds. It can make the daily lives of many jobs smoother and allow more young people to be hired, for example, for summer jobs, but in addition to these, it would transfer the responsibility of 16-year-olds to assess the condition of the customer and whether the person can be offered alcohol. Allowing sales could also lead young people to work conditions that are not necessarily the best or the most comfortable for them. Last season there was also extensive research into child protection, the well-being of children and families and improving it. The aim was to improve the well-being of children and families and the services targeted at them. Child welfare was often motivated by excessive alcohol consumption by parents and young people. As stated in the law’s explanatory statement, the substance abuse problem of parents and other problems associated with it are the most common cause of child welfare and custody. Young people are often taken into care because of their own substance abuse and behavioral disorders. The new alcohol law will not facilitate this situation, but will, on the contrary, increase the consumption of alcohol at home in families, thereby also increasing family nausea and domestic violence and thereby increasing the need for child protection. If we adopt the bill now before us as it stands, it should increase alcohol consumption, its adverse effects and health inequalities. Experts have also noted that alcohol consumption weakens working ability and causes absenteeism, burdens health care on both basic services and specialised medical care, and plays a major role in police surveillance and alert functions. The cost to society of these will increase as the total consumption of alcohol increases. As a result of the increase in alcohol consumption, an estimated 175 police officers are needed to ensure the safety of citizens and to investigate possible follow-up measures for abuse. Based on the reports, the number of days lost annually due to alcohol has been estimated at 2 million, which corresponds to around 10,000 person-years. According to the most conservative estimates, the costs are between EUR 500 million and EUR 700 million per year. In this respect, this legislative proposal will also have a strong impact on working well-being and well-being. Mr President! Unfortunately, the government's arguments are hard to read. On the other hand, it is confusing and regrettable that the drafting of the law has not taken into account or consulted public health experts, as has been said here in several previous speeches. I understand that the matter will be dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Administration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which will then give their opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which will give a final report on this. I hope that the experts will be consulted widely in the various committees, including the impact assessments of the law and, above all, the impact assessments on children, but also the impact on the health and well-being of other citizens, as well as the long-term impact of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u200	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! There has been a wide-ranging and lively debate on the government's proposal for a alcohol law and some related laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u201	Mr President! The current reform of the Alcohol Act is a good compromise from both a business policy and a public health point of view. The draft law has called for a solution to the question of whether Alko's monopoly could be slightly reduced and we too could move a little more into a central European drinking culture, and, on the other hand, how much of us Finns can patronize in terms of alcohol consumption, based mainly on health policy reasons and consequences. Of course, alcohol consumption causes significant health damage and costs when alcohol consumption is no longer under the control of a person. However, I personally see that this is a moderate crackdown on standards and not a dramatic shift to a completely different kind of alcohol policy. This reform cannot be compared to, for example, the sudden reduction in alcohol tax in 2004 or the release of medium beer, which were much larger in terms of effectiveness. It must also be remembered that the Finnish substance abuse culture has changed in the past decades in a much more subdued and positive direction. This can be seen, for example, from the results of the European ESPAD study on the use of young drugs. In 1995, or 22 years ago, 10 per cent of Finnish 16-year-olds, or 9th graders, were completely sober. In 2015, the same figure was already 26 per cent, or more than a quarter. Thus, young people’s drunken drinking has clearly decreased since the turn of the millennium. The same phenomenon was also observed with regard to tobacco, as young people's tobacco experiments have decreased throughout the 21st century and in recent years the downward trend has been particularly strong. Mr President! Many times the critics of the reform have brought out the concept of vague lemonade. In my view, it is already somewhat questionable, by definition, to call any drink containing 5.5% alcohol "wine". At the moment, there are many sweet and colorful cocktails in shops, which in practice are very difficult to distinguish from other similar products. So the situation would hardly change now. Of course, the start has its own interest in supporting these horror images of critics, since it is a gin-based tentacle of Alko's best-selling products. It is also good to have some reservations about the estimates made by THL about the increase in alcohol sales. These figures do not take into account the shift between different sales channels, such as Alko, grocery trade and passenger imports. The economic survey estimates the increase in total consumption is much more moderate. Mr President! Critics of the reform have also consistently sought to reduce the volume of passenger imports. However, the tax revenue lost currently exceeds EUR 160 million per year. In particular, the growth in sales of brewery products has been high, and this phenomenon will remain despite the increase in alcohol tax in Estonia. For example, a box of Bear Four Cells in Estonia pays less than half of the price of Alko even after the increase. Mr President! According to an opinion poll at the beginning of September, the majority of Finns, 60 per cent, are also in favour of the reform. Only 19% of respondents were in favour of maintaining the current percentage limit. Thus, Finns are clearly prepared to liberalise and move moderately towards a central European approach to alcohol law. I hope that the forthcoming reforms that will guide alcohol policy will also lead to a greater shift in consumption towards restaurants by reducing VAT on alcohol sold in the restaurant. But this is certainly part of a broader debate on VAT, which also looks at other VAT rates and how they should be changed in economic policy, industrial policy, but also health policy in a sustainable direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u202	Mr President! Nevertheless, the government's proposal to the Parliament for alcohol law and some related laws is a minor change. During the debate, there has been the feeling that the whole world is changing with regard to the alcohol law and that the whole world is being put down with this amendment to the alcohol law, and this is not the case, but, as the law rightly states, the fundamental principles of the law remain unchanged. In other words, the legislation on alcohol is being amended in a small way, a few streamlinings are being made, among other things, in the direction of cutting red tape so that the activities of business, which are related to alcohol consumption or related activities, are simplified, red tape is being dismantled, business activities are being developed. So this is not the bigger issue. First of all, I would like to thank both Minister Annika Saarikko and his predecessor, Juha Rehula, for their persistence in taking this matter forward and for the result that has been achieved in the parliamentary referral debate. As has been said, the business around alcohol in Finland has been extremely tightly regulated and bureaucratic. Now, in line with the principles of the Sipilä Government, these bureaucratic squirms are being dismantled, streamlined and made easier to operate, which in itself is quite positive. In the course of this debate, I have heard many speakers say that this is where alcohol consumption is going to get out of hand and society will fall into this hilarious bill — that is not the case. It should be remembered that at the time when Finland chose to join the European Union, we have chosen open borders and that people can visit Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or wherever they visit and bring with them: that is something we cannot intervene in, but we must build the conditions in such a way that alcohol policy in this country makes sense and encourages rational use in such a way as to minimise the number of problems. Of course, we will not be able to overcome the problem; that is clear now, but I think it is worth keeping our senses on this issue. For example, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke and encouraged that the number of restaurant evenings should be increased. When I have listened to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speeches in this Chamber, it seems that money is not even enough for basic income or normal everyday food, and then suddenly the money is found that you can sit down at a restaurant. There is something wrong with the logic of the representative who has just been mentioned. I would like to see a calm reflection on what to do here, and I think that profitability is in making a sensible law, changing the laws in the direction of national, Finnish work-friendly, as is happening here. Reviving small brewery activities in this context is very welcome, and I also see it as a very important event for Finnish employment and I strongly support it. The figure is then this change between 4.7% and 5.5%, which is now being made, so that instead of 4.7%, the shops will have 5.5% beers and drinks mentioned as sodas. This is a very difficult issue — not difficult to understand, but for me personally a reasonably difficult subject for decision-making — because we have to have the courage to look at the situation in Finnish rural areas as well. It is of the utmost importance that when Finland has different localities, even small localities, such as my municipality of residence in Ilomants, Alko's store today, it means in practice and without mercy if these tentacles and similar drinks or strong beer are transferred to the counters of normal shops, that the small Alkos cease from rural areas. It accounts for approximately 60% of sales — I am not quite sure whether the percentage is correct, but it is likely to be in the order of magnitude. The sales of these stronger beers and sodas represent around 60%, which would in practice mean that rural communities: The beginnings would disappear in the next few years, and that is the kind of development that I cannot support. In my opinion, every Finnish citizen must have access to the reasonably well-equipped Alko store so that he can buy those domestic products and various Alko products so that the state can get it to tax revenue. If we go to the development where all these drinks come from abroad, then the State will only be left with the repair and replacement of the disadvantages and damage associated with alcoholic beverages, but not with any tax revenue. In that sense, it has been very difficult for me to reflect on this government proposal and, after careful consideration, I have come to the conclusion of this current procedure, in which these strong beers and sodas, tentacles and others will remain on the Alko shelf and Alko will also remain in rural areas and that this outstanding bill will be taken in accordance with the Government's proposal, for example, because it is very much to be welcomed and supports Finnish work. But maintaining this 4.7% limit at the present time, so that stronger beer and tentacles are still sold in the Alko, I think that is a better option. Of course, I will read the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health carefully and the relevant expert opinions, but even after hearing these speeches today, I am very convinced that this line I have chosen is the right one for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u203	Mr President! The reform of the Alcohol Act is absolutely necessary simply because the existing law and numerous regulations are being brought under one law as comprehensively as possible. However, the Alcohol Act will, of course, continue to aim to prevent the harm caused by alcohol. The key principles of this reform are, for example, the preservation of Alko's retail monopoly and the current licensing system, but the dismantling of unnecessary, outdated and rigid standards of current legislation. Here too, it is high time to take a step away from the so-called overly strict rule of Finland. According to the compromise negotiated on many occasions, the strength limit for beverages sold in the grocery trade will increase and the production method will also be abolished. That's a good thing. In the future, trade would provide stronger drinks, including beers, ciders, tentacles, and other cocktails. The increase in strength is very limited and the regulation of trade selections remains very strict. Ordinary consumers benefit most because the available range is expanding and costs are falling. Domestic beverage production, trade, restaurant sector, transport sector, especially primary production and tourism, also have more opportunities for activity and opportunities for growth and employment. This is a very important point. Thus, tax revenues will increase both directly and indirectly as the tax leakage to Estonia is hopefully reduced and on the other hand the tax revenue from domestic distribution channels will increase. This change is therefore aimed at curbing, in part, large-scale foreign imports with all indicators. Recent statistics show that growth is continuing and that more alcohol was imported from Estonia than ever last year. The volume of passenger imports is clearly higher than that of the entire Finnish restaurant. Even the partial shift of consumption from passenger to domestic imports would, according to preliminary estimates, increase the alcohol tax revenue by at least EUR 40 to 50 million. If the alcohol imported into Finland with passenger imports could be taxed as such, the amount would be as much as EUR 164 million per year. The reform would also give small breweries the right to sell out products that are stronger than the 5.5% limit. This will hopefully create new entrepreneurship, especially in rural areas, and strengthen the Finnish beer culture and locality even more. At the moment, if a small brewery in rural areas wants to sell out beer directly, a food kiosk with its own selection must be set up, and it is a rather bureaucratic and difficult procedure to sell its own products. Changes in opening hours and simplification of liquor licenses are also particularly welcome. According to the proposal, starters can keep the doors open until 21:00, and the law would also provide for the right of existing shop cars to sell alcoholic beverages and as a new addition to Alko’s ability to serve customers from the company’s shop car. In turn, the liquor licenses for alcoholic beverages would be amended to allow all alcoholic beverages to be licensed in the future. Currently there are different permits, A, B and C, for different strong alcoholic beverages. Restaurants would no longer have to apply for separate extension permits after 1.30 p.m., but there would be requirements for public order control for restaurants in this regard. The restaurant's own notice should be used to extend the fee to a maximum of 4 o'clock. The new law would also restrict restaurants to advertising Happy Hour offers. The bureaucracy of restaurants is therefore to be dismantled. Restaurants would have access to 5,5 % drinks under the same conditions as the grocery trade, i.e. the same sales times and the same requirements for monitoring age limits, for example. For example, the setting-up of temporary facilities for open air events would be facilitated. There has also been a plan to reduce the regulatory burden on drinking areas, and in recent years more frequent beer screenings would no longer be necessary. Changes would improve the employment capacity of the restaurant industry and create new jobs in the sector. In Finland too, it is indeed time to move towards European customs. Mr President! The proposal as a whole is very much to be welcomed, and I hope that in committee it will also receive the support of the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u204	Mr President! Today we have had a good and varied debate on this draft alcohol law. At least when this presentation came, I have been very open to it. There has now been an attempt to strike a balance between the aspects of industrial policy and those of public health. I myself, after reading this bill and these assessment effects and arguments, feel that this public health aspect has been weaker in this regard. There is a lot of such good red tape and such unnecessary deregulation, which has received some unreserved support in this Chamber. The impact on employment, the impact on society's costs, the impact on consumption and the impact on restaurant behaviour has been assessed in a very diverse and broad way. When you think about these costs — for example, it is stated that the alcohol tax would increase by about EUR 65 million, but then on the other hand the costs would actually increase by the same amount, resulting in direct costs such as health costs, and then the costs of loss of working ability and absences would come into play — so the financial costs would go up to the negative side of this proposal. As far as employment is concerned, it has been found that the right of exit, especially for small breweries, would be one where there is a great deal of potential to create more jobs. The cooperation of small breweries with tourism would certainly be one that would genuinely create new jobs. But then, in the areas of commerce and the restaurant, it has been thought that jobs are more or less the same. Perhaps small shops may have a slight increase, but then jobs on the Alko side will be significantly reduced. But then jobs are found, for example, for the police, this is about the need for 170 new people, and then also for the social partners. In other words, these job increases would come to the public side, which, of course, is not a positive thing for central government finances. Personally, I see that if you think about breweries, here are small breweries and large breweries in a slightly different position. This right of sale to small breweries will certainly help them. Small breweries are very labour intensive in relation to these large breweries. It is estimated that the number of employees in large breweries here will probably not be affected, even if there is a slight increase in consumption. The increase in consumption: it is thought to come from the fact that, on the one hand, the price is falling — there are estimates that the price of a strong beer of up to 40% would fall if it moved from the start to retailers and also to kiosks and maintenance — and then, of course, that the availability of stronger alcohol will increase, because it will then be found closer. But the increase in total alcohol consumption does not necessarily come from the increase in sales volume, but precisely from the fact that consumption in beer is shifting to stronger beer and thus the consumption of alcohol is increasing. That is why we are undoubtedly aware that it does cause health problems. In fact, this proposal has quite carefully examined the effects of alcohol deaths, accidents, various health and social harms, disorderly behaviours, increased drink driving, assaults, foetal damage. When I think about alcohol policy as a whole, I would like, as has been the case in many speeches, to be able to direct consumption more to restaurants and controlled conditions, but unfortunately the explanatory statement states that this is probably not the case, but that it is at home and under uncontrolled conditions that drinking is increasing. The fact that even in restaurants it does not necessarily decrease, perhaps then, is due to the fact that it facilitates the operation of the restaurant, which in itself is quite welcome. Many speakers have called for tax changes to be made at the same time that the restaurant's alves had been reduced, which would have encouraged people to drink in the controlled premises of the restaurant, and I would have seen it myself here, but this is now, of course, a separate law and it is not on the table here. As I said, I do not think that this balance from the point of view of industrial policy and public health is in the balance, and even the explanatory statement to the bill itself states that the reform will increase the overall consumption of alcohol and the effects of the reform on people's well-being and health are negative. This would have an impact on health inequalities between the population groups and would also have a considerable impact on equality, in particular by increasing the exclusion of men and, on the one hand, by increasing violence against women in close relationships and the insecurity of women in public places. Although there is indeed a lot of good in this proposal — especially the dismantling of red tape and the facilitation of permit practices for festivals or the relaxation of restrictions on areas of liquor — it is a very good thing that the withdrawal of the alcohol limit in the retail trade is something that I cannot, in principle, support now that I have been familiar with and read the arguments. In the first place, when I have thought about this matter without getting to know it more, the idea that we could increase the percentage of alcohol sold in the store was quite something to be welcomed, and I am sure that I have replied to one of the electoral machines, but after reading this 200-page presentation, they are indisputably so great that I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u205	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. For the first time in this Chamber, by the way, it is solemn to be on the floor, and I have spoken only from that line in the past. Our Alcohol Act has long been waiting for an update, it has been waiting for the transition to EU time, the previous legislation from before Finland was part of the European Union, from 94 C.E. My relationship with alcohol is quite varied, but I will return to that at the end of the speech. The main principle of the law under consideration remains the prevention of alcohol harm. The reform seeks a balance between reducing public health damage caused by alcohol and responding to the business perspective. However, it is quite intransigent, or perhaps even confusing, that the public debate on such a major reform of the law is almost confined to a point of 0.7 percentage points, almost literally. The monopoly position of the Alko will therefore be increased by 0.7 percentage points. We representatives have already been asked last spring before the government had even put forward a proposal to vote in favour of 4.7% or 5.5%. So there are several good and sensible steps in the alcohol law under discussion, some of which are invisible to the public, and I would like to raise a few: it is welcome that the red tape on alcohol supply linked to the event is being dismantled. In future, the holder of the licence may establish a temporary place of residence for an open air event instead of a new separate permit application by means of a simple notification. However, the notification is subject to the condition that the area fulfils certain requirements and has been approved for the purpose of granting the licence. It also makes sense that, under the new law, it is possible to build common areas of distribution, i.e. a common area of distribution between two or three players, such as patio. At the same time, the A-, B- and C-licences will be abolished at the same time. In the future, it would be possible to grant different strong alcoholic beverages with one permit. These will all reduce not only bureaucracy but also the work of the supervisory authorities, and hopefully this resource will be refocused on more effective tasks. The new issue would be the so-called craft beers, which would allow manufacturers to sell directly from the manufacturing site. This type of proposal is precisely one of the sensible proposals that does not significantly increase consumption or place of distribution, but reduces the duplication of red tape for operators in the sector. Understandably, the debate on alcohol is for the most part a debate on domestic consumption of alcohol. On the other hand, the strict alcohol law has made it difficult and, in part, even prevented domestic operators from doing foreign trade, promoting exports. It is good that this new reform of the alcohol law will remove small but slow-down barriers to exports. It has been very strange that a food business operator who manufactures high-quality and domestic products and wants to export internationally has not even been able to tell on his own website what products the company manufactures, let alone market them. Finland’s alcohol exports amount to approximately EUR 150 million per year. One example of this is Shaman Spirits, a Tyrnäinen, who accounts for approximately EUR 1.7 million, or more than one percentage point of Finland’s alcohol exports. By the way, the company’s turnover is around EUR 2 million, which means that it is almost entirely export-driven. Another issue that still needs more debate, both in this House and in public, is why: It is not possible to buy or purchase Finnish products from the beginning, for example in your region. Let us hope that progress will be made in the near future. Mr President! Today, we have heard many times that alcohol consumption is determined by the availability and price of alcohol. The availability of beverages sold in the store increased significantly last year as the legislation regulating the opening hours of the trade was completely abolished. A total of 650 hours was calculated to increase the sales time and should have been seen as a direct increase in consumption. Nevertheless, sales of alcohol in domestic trade did not increase but decreased, as did sales of liquor. Only the imports of passengers increased, even though they have heard other things here today. According to the latest statistics by THL, passenger imports of brewery beverages in particular have increased sharply. For example, beer grew by 17.7 per cent from May 2006 to April 2006. With regard to this reform of the Alcohol Act, we are aware of the government parties' agreement on VAT on alcohol. In order for our tax policy to be as productive and fair as possible and to have a clear steering effect on the behaviour of people and businesses, it should be long-term, predictable and clear. It is regrettable that alcohol taxation has been an example of our wave-like tax policy. I hope that in future policies we would like to have a long-term impact on the very fact that VAT in the restaurant sector will be reduced. I hope that we will come back to this in this Chamber. Mr President! Living in childhood, youth, sports and living in Koskunda, that small southern-based village with Finland’s largest liquor factory, a factory that uses almost 15 per cent of Finland’s total barley production. I started my career in our family business specifically in the restaurant business. Even the teatime did not wean on the subject, the process and environmental engineering trainings I did at the Altian Koskundum factory, just as I did my thesis there, although I did from another clear liquid, i.e. water. The factory is Finland's largest liquor factory, but it is also one of the most environmentally friendly factory clusters in Finland. As the decision-maker and the bearer of responsibility, I have faced the disadvantages of alcohol. They should not be underestimated or magnified, neither now nor in the future. However, they cannot be eliminated by alcohol legislation alone, but we need comprehensive, responsible, fair and courageous solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u206	Mr President! We are all familiar with the number series 543210, i.e. the Prohibition ended on 5th of 4th of October at 10 a.m., when the stores of Oy Alcohol Company Ab were opened. Of course, that period of prohibition has been a long time, and none of us lived here at the time of prohibition, but we have heard a lot about it, and no one wants that time in Finland anymore. I do not know whether there is a ban on people anywhere in the world except perhaps in Islamic countries. Even today, I have not heard anyone call for the Prohibition to come into force. It was abandoned at that time and then lived until the end of 94 a very strong Alko time. In the early '90s, I was the minister responsible for these matters, and then, of course, there are many people who have been reminded of salami. I didn't really have anything to do with it. It was Alko’s decision, which it made by pulling it out of the market after these unfortunate damage had come. But there's been a lot of fame, and it's all right. The bigger thing was that between 93 and 94 an overall reform of the alcohol law was being prepared, and that was a huge reform. Until then, until the end of 94, The alcohol was manufactured, imported, exported, wholesale and retail monopoly. In addition, it marketed and opposed the sale of the products. It was an education, and it included official duties, licensing tasks and even supervision of permits. We had such a system until the end of 94, but that was when the EU membership mentioned here came into force in 95. This is what we had to do. At that time only the retail monopoly was left in force, everything else was dismantled. At that time, I held negotiations with the Commission's representatives on whether or not to maintain a retail monopoly. After tough, tough negotiations, we got the right to do so when we justified it with health policy. That was the only argument that allowed such a monopoly to be maintained in Finland. The same right was granted to Sweden and Norway. Norway also held accession negotiations, although it did not join. So we still have this retail monopoly. With regard to the legislation currently under discussion, I have tried to find out — perhaps here the former Minister, Mr Ruhula, would be able to make sure — whether this legislation currently under discussion poses a risk of the current Alko monopoly being broken. There are lawsuits going on there and, of course, the arguments behind access, price and monopoly are such that there may be a contradiction to this proposal, or at least the risk that Alko's monopoly will gradually break down. I'm sure not at once, but gradually. So tough were the negotiations between 93 and 94 that if the EU has the same line of free competition for products and monopolies in the future, this situation could arise for us. In my view, this question is a matter for the committee to consider very carefully whether there is a risk of a retail monopoly being dismantled. That would be of great significance, as Mr Hoskonen mentioned here. But whether or not it is, the effect that Mr Hoskonen has so well pointed out is that, in any event, this legislation as such — the percentage and the transfer of products to grocery stores and kiosks and pizzas and so on — is likely to have 10,000 new outlets — leading to a high risk in tens of localities, even a hundred, perhaps 150 localities, and perhaps even in many respects to the likelihood that the Alko store will be closed down. As a limited company, unprofitable stores cannot be held for very long. And when you think of Central Finland, for example, if the smallest shops of Saarijärvi, Viitasaari and their few other small stores are closed, then of course the Alko can be found in Äänekoski and Jyväskylä and not elsewhere. Well, distance selling and mail order is of course another possibility, but it is a bit more difficult for the customer. In other words, the issue raised by Mrs Hoskonen is quite serious in this situation for examination in committee, as is the case with many other issues that have been raised here. Mr President! I read the statements received in the spring, 130 statements, or a summary of them, and I can say that only the Panimoliitto and the Trade Union were clearly behind this proposal. Almost everyone else was critical of different points, so it does tell a lot about the performance and makes you wonder if we are on the right track in this respect. One special commentator was the six ambassadors in Finland, Helsinki, who, on behalf of their own countries, suggested that this legislation should definitely be implemented because it opens up growing markets in their countries, countries they represent, producers, industry markets in Finland. As a rather special matter, I was wondering that ambassadors were thus directly involved in the domestic policy and legislation of their country. I suppose they have the right to do so, but is it in accordance with good manners, that is all I am going to do. Mr President! There's been a lot of talk about jobs here. What I have been thinking about is that all I can see now is that this reform brings jobs to those sectors where taxpayers, the public sector, are paying wages: health care, social security, child protection, the police and many of these types of operators that we maintain out of tax money. If they are sensible jobs in this respect, that is a different question. For example, it brings a lot of night work to the police and health care, which is then more expensive for society, and, of course, this aspect is worth considering in this respect. Then one problem, Mr President, is this treatment of restaurants here. This overall structure leads to more drinking at home and on the streets, and at the end of the day less drinking at restaurants, and this is exactly the opposite of what I think it should be. The aim should be to encourage the controlled and controlled consumption of alcohol in restaurants, and at home with children are sober and these substances are not used on the streets. It is a safety-, it is a comfort-, it is a matter of Finnish reputation and many other things. Finally, on this import of Estonia. The explanatory statement states that Estonia is now raising the tax rate by 170 %. Of course, it is not huge in euro, but it is a direction which is also in other countries. In Sweden, for example, it seems that alcohol policy is being tightened up, as in most other European countries, which means that we are, of course, on our own lines in this regard, and it is worth considering whether this line is responsible, justified in terms of the whole, whether it is wise and good for taxpayers, employers, policyholders and so on. In my opinion, it does not meet these conditions very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u207	Mr President! Indeed, I am concerned about the future of Alko's shops in rural communities, just as Mrs Kankaanniemi went through this thoroughly in her good speech. There is also such a dimension here, which should be taken into account in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when it comes to the fact that large cities, or cities in general, as is said now in the capital region, have Alko's shops with ash at their best, every few hundred metres. In other words, here it is no problem as to how this bill will be dealt with. If these strong beers and tentacles and others remain in the Alkoo, it is secured here, but if this change is made, it will lead to up to 150 Alkos in rural areas being stopped, and then the whole service goes to that region, and that is a risk. After that there will then come all sorts of other salesmen who, could say nicely, have the enthusiasm to pay taxes on the state treasury is very little.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u208	Mr President! This tax increase in Estonia, which we are talking about a lot, is an interesting phenomenon, for at present in Estonia, for example, a four-cell basket costs EUR 17. After all these tax increases, it costs EUR 20. In Finland it currently costs EUR 50. I think it is dangerous to talk about the fact that all these tax increases in Estonia will then change this overall picture in some way. And second thing: Mr Kankaanniemi said here that all the other EU countries here are raising taxes. Sweden is not raising taxes. At the moment, only Ireland, Estonia and Lithuania are raising taxes in the EU, so I do not believe that there is a good fact in all EU countries that they are doing this and that is what they are doing in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u209	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen is quite right, and he himself mentioned in his own speech that up to 60% of these rural shops may be sold as a result of this reform, and that is, of course, a factor which means job losses and the closure of shops at a very rapid pace. Mrs Wallinheimo, I did not say that taxes are being imposed, but that a number of European countries are tightening up alcohol policy overall. As regards Estonia, what is said here in the proposal is a 170% increase over a certain period of time, and that is considerable. As we know, we are both from Central Finland, there is no weekly departure from Jyväskylä or Pihtiputa from Estonia for these drinks. It is a privilege here in the south, and society is supporting this shipping industry in this way, that it is easier and cheaper to apply there. But they're coming all over this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u210	Mr President! Yes, in Central Finland, unfortunately, we are going to Estonia for drinks, even in Latvia at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u211	And then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u212	Mr President! The government has brought before us a proposal for an alcoholic. This is an attempt to find a balance between alcohol harm and business activity. Alcoholic industries generate tax revenue and export income, while alcohol consumption produces disadvantages and problems. Today, the debate has been fairly shielded to increase the percentage of alcohol-containing products for sale in the store. Unfortunately, research and foresight on this point show that public health problems caused by alcohol will inevitably increase if the government proposal — 5.5 % by volume — enters into force in this Chamber. If this is the case, we must all be aware of the fact that more effort will have to be made to combat these disadvantages in the coming years. Increasing the percentage limit would reduce the living space of Finnish small breweries in particular because Finnish retail trade would open up to large foreign breweries. Shop shelves could be filled with cheap imported beers as the percentage rises. There will hardly be much more shelving meters in stores, but this would put Finnish small breweries under great pressure. Several representatives have already mentioned that it will also result in a decrease in the volume of the Alko, so the current network of stores will inevitably become smaller. I do not think this would be a good development. Many localities would be left without Alko's service. There are some good things in this presentation, some really good things. One small good thing is that the new law will allow manufacturers, wholesalers and restaurants, in addition to Alko, to better present their products online, to take advantage of this, for example, for international sales. I will bring up a few more wishes in the bill that have not been fulfilled for me. A dozen Finnish liquor mills are excluded from this proposal, and it is still not possible to sell their products at the manufacturing site. I would have seen it right for all the production plants that use local raw materials for their production — craft beer, wine on-farm, sawn, but also for stronger products, such as the Shaman Spirits products already mentioned here — to have been able to sell from the manufacturing site. In this way, I think that these small factories would become tourist attractions in the northern tourist area where the products would have received the character of souvenirs in a certain way. In the northern tourist area, such small distilleries already operating or planned would not be at any risk for alcohol policy, but would provide additional provision of programme services and increased opportunities for international tourists. I would have liked the bill to have more means of transferring alcohol to controlled facilities, such as restaurants, but also to small pubs. In fact, it may be that it is not possible to keep this place open at night for one man’s drinks. According to the bill, the restaurant should have one law enforcement officer for every hundred customers if it wants to sign at night after 2:30. I hope that the government will continue to look for ways, for example, in the taxation mentioned here, to improve the conditions under which restaurants operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u213	Mr President! Too much alcohol and dependence is a disease. We all know that this is how it will be and how it will be. I myself was a shop steward at the workplace, a chief shop steward and a job shop steward, my entire career, such things for over 30 years, and then these things had to be dealt with on the site as alcoholism moved forward. As to the reasons for the great dependence on alcohol, the main rule was that it was strong drinks. People took those long drinks out of hard liquor, and it became junk days, warnings, care of directions, all this kind of stuff. And when you think more about it back there, it's always been kind of the troll in family life all through history, that strong wines are taken and then, furiously, you start to rage and come up with these violent scenes. But when you look at this consumption of Finnish alcohol in history, how it has functioned and how they have used alcohol and when it gets high: In the 19th century, when there was a Prohibition against smoking liquor because of the availability of grain, it became a business, and it is estimated that about 20 litres of absolute alcohol per Finn was used during that time. Under the Prohibition Act 1919-32, absolute alcohol consumption has been estimated at more than 10 litres, and this has also been estimated at a low level that it is suspected that alcohol consumption has been higher than 15 litres. Every time it has been banned, this has happened, and the drink has been made of strong drinks — spirit, hard liquor, and all the things that have been brought there — and it has tasted to both lords and fools in that connection. These cisterns, there's been a bunch of insinuations at that point. Since the liquor store has been in use and the alcohol can be bought at the end of the licence, alcohol consumption in Finland has been at its lowest — albeit with a liquor card or other similar — in 62 C.E. I don't remember exactly, but when I was in school, I was trying to figure out these numbers. Since then, well-being has increased and alcohol consumption has increased. The release of central beer gave a small spike to it, and it grew a little bit more then, but it was not very significant. But that growth has continued steadily all the way here, mainly because of the use of mild alcoholic beverages and thus passed on. In this proposal, which the government has brought up here, I myself have considered the matter that, when our great goal has been to change our alcoholic drink culture so that we drink soft drinks, behave well and that drinking is not drunk-seeking, but drink only in such a way that it is a stimulant and is enjoyed, I think the presentation is good in this respect. We are now given the opportunity to buy a little bit stronger in the store. I can't believe that the sales of four cells are going to rise very much, because the middle beer has made a good profit in Finnish culture, or has a good reputation that it is good enough as a thirst drink almost in connection with some work, in the context of voluntary work, so that I can't believe that four cells are hijacking that market so badly. Then when you think about this change in the way alcohol is used — here it is well told how young people have reduced alcohol consumption and so forth — it is a question of education: how do we raise our young people to drink and to care for their own health and condition, and how do they counsel and what kind of example are we there? It must also be remembered that we are each alcohol user as an example there, how to do it. In that respect, too, this presentation contains reasonably good ingredients. In order for this to be very good and really like a perfect performance, I would have liked this VAT for restaurants to have been included there. It would have dropped the alves of restaurants lower in terms of alcohol, so that, in a way, the drinking of alcohol would be eliminated. There the restaurant enjoys good company with nice chats and sometimes disagrees, but in harmony with the alcohol. Let's have conversations, eat and enjoy ourselves together, and it's not the drunken drinking at all. I would also like to criticise this motion for this liberalisation of opening hours. I don't think we have to be open all night.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u216	Mr President, ärade talman! Alkoholen har alltid variant en så kallad svår fråga i Finland. I regeringspropositionnens allmänna motiveringar tecknas en ganska utförlig historisk Bild av alkoholpolitikens olika faser, av vilka förbudslagen 1919-1932 naturligtvis hör till de mest spectakulära. Det råder inget tvivel om att alkoholens roll i samhället och historien är, och har variantt complicerad, för att inte säga Directive traumatisk. Därmed råder det Heller inga TVivel om att alkoholen, och då särskilt storkonsumtionen av alkohol är ett folkhälsoproblem som förknippas med sjukdom, förtida dödsfall, olyckor, arbetsoförmögenhet, fakilettragier och stora extra kostnader för samhället. Det finns alltså inga skäl att underskatta alkoholens skadeverkningar. Vi tycks också sedan länge i det rai landet ha accepterat vårt öde som ett norrfånget land där alkoholen, eller liquor curse som det hette i folkuplysningskampanjerna förr i tiiden, är obönhörligt problematisk. Men frågan är, Herr talman: Måste det vara så arv i all evighet? Måste vi undercas oss det arv vårt självpåtagna oode? Är vi finländare faktiskt på något vis genetiskt predestinerade eller inkompetenta för att med tiden kunna utveckla en give mer vardaglig, normal relationship till alkohol, en sådan relationship som man har i de flesta andra europeiska lännder? Eller är det så att årtionden av strikt reglering av tillverkning, försäljning, utskänkning och reklam har upphöjt alkoholen till den förbjudna frukten som just därför är så het efftertraktad att vi blir näst intil galna när vi äntligen får flaskan i vår hand? Har vi alltså själva gillrat oss denna fälla genom att aven med lagstiftningens hjälp mystifiera, eller nasta mytologisera alkoholen i vårt samhalle?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u217	Mr President! There has been a long and multigenerational debate here and a lot of wise words have been said that may no longer be able to bring such new and unique added value in themselves. However, there have been many good proposals and ideas here in the debate, such as the sale of liquor products directly from the factory, which could help tourism, and I hope that the committee will take these matters into account in its deliberations. In fact, I would like to send an encouraging signal to this end of the debate not to overpower the fear. So there's been some pretty big threats here about sodas and cell poisons and stuff like that. It's a mistake to talk about soda. Everyone in the Lionad knows what it is, and everyone in the liquor knows what it is, and they're two completely different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u220	Mr President! During this good debate, I think there have been very good opinions as to how the Finnish alcohol policy should become. First of all, the cold fact is that it is important for the future of each of us and our own children and Finland as a whole that children are raised in homes with the healthy way of dealing with alcohol and other social phenomena, whatever they may be. In his own speech, the representative, Matti Semi, made an excellent contribution to this health issue and how we should learn that we would do better with this king’s alcohol in this country. We will not be able to make much better use of alcohol through the legislation of this hall if this educational task is neglected in homes. Of course, that education is also done in schools and day clubs and wherever, but if homes neglect the education obligation, alcohol law can no longer affect it much. So, in this matter, the good examples of father and mother are the only way we can move forward. Of course, changes in alcohol law, changes in the tax law and many other amendments to the law can be made, but the big thing about how we deal with the king's alcohol is something we can't do very much about in this house. In any case, from the point of view of health, such as the representative, Semi said, it is absolutely essential that every person on his own and every family on his own go through this matter thoroughly, what is right and what is good for health, because it is the responsibility of the father and mother to care for its own health for children, and then, when we grow up, it is up to each one of us to consider what is good and what is bad. But as far as the distribution of alcohol in this country is concerned, it is good to remember, and I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take it seriously, that if these 5.5% drinks come to retail trade, it will certainly have an impact on the thinning of the sales network of the rural communities Alko and strongly. And that will lead to the situation, I am sure, that there will be such a shady market going on in those regions. There is a market opening up for alcohol sales from which the state receives nothing. [Sinuhe-Wallin-tribe] This is a serious question because it is also a genuine issue of equality for society: can society guarantee the same sales network for all Finns? In cities like this town there are dozens and dozens of movements — no more than 500 meters to walk in any direction, there is the Alko movement — but if in Ilomants Alko stops, then the first Alko movement will be 75 kilometers away in Joensuu, and then there will be a market open for shady men and other marketmen, for sure. I very much hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — here are the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — will take this issue seriously, because it is a matter of great importance for social policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u221	Mr President! At this point in the debate and evening it is quite difficult to present anything new, but there are some things that may not have come up during the debate, smaller ones and perhaps a few bigger ones in principle. Firstly, since 2000, we have had a new constitution, a 17-year-old constitution, which, among other things, requires that regulations should be kept to a minimum and that we should write into the law the things that had been laid down before that year by the regulation. This is beginning to be one of the last laws, at least on this scale, to which the constitutional changes that came into force in 2000 have not yet been made. That company has been made by one and another government, even if it has been ready, but it has never been brought to Parliament. The much-spoken constitutional debate on this point has been in the position not to be able to take decisions at political level so that, once again, the Constitution adopted by Parliament and, in fact, twice approved by Parliament in due course, will be in force. This law is absolutely necessary. From big to small: We have such small things that today are reasonably irrational, such as whether an alcohol dose can be taken from the restaurant’s interior to the terrace five meters away. Each of us in this Chamber, if we have been in the restaurant, has offered our friend an alcohol dose, if we ourselves have taken two doses of alcohol to the table, has acted in breach of the current rules. The second provision, which I still do not remember, is that it went either way — the regulation is correct and the law is wrong: Anyone who has paid for alcoholic beverages with the Visa card has acted in violation of the alcohol law in force. Buying alcohol as a debt is prohibited — and I do not remember which one it was, a law or a decree, but either says that buying as a debt is prohibited. On the one hand, this bill has tried to open up these issues in order to increase respect for the law and, on the other hand, to bring things and things to the present. Mr President! As someone who has done some work on the preparation of this alcohol law, I am asking here today and now about something that has been raised by more than one representative in one way or another. Please tell me what the European alcohol culture should be written in the form of a law in Finland. Please tell me what is the culture that would be written through the articles into Finnish legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u224	Mr President! Mr Rehula asked a very good question about the fact that much has been said about this European alcohol culture and nobody has said what it is. Is it a Norwegian and Swedish model or German or Italian or Russian? But when you want to do so, I hope that the committee will go through the same question and come up with a solution as it actually does. Mr President! The second issue raised here is that of health policy in this reform and, on the other hand, that of industrial policy. When you read the presentation — I have read it quite carefully, even a few times, in fact — industrial policy is a very strong driving force over health policy. As I said in my speech, this means that Alko's retail monopoly, which we still have, is in great danger from an EU perspective because it is justified only on the basis of health criteria for 94 Commissions — only and only on health grounds. Now that health criteria are even very heavily discarded and industrial policy is replaced, it is the road leading to the collapse of Alko’s retail monopoly. That's what I'm saying. On this path, I believe that in five to ten years' time, Finland will no longer have Alko's monopoly. Is that what you want? Some people do. I don't want to. I want them. The profits of the Alko will come to the State because the municipalities and the State will also pay the costs, and in this respect it is wise to regard Alko as a state monopoly company, as it is now. But it's in danger. It's in grave danger. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u227	Mr President! There has been a reasonable and factual debate on this issue, and it is important that different views are raised on the basis of facts. In the context of some reforms, and especially in the case of substantial reform, careful impact assessment is needed, and it is worth acknowledging that this bill has carried out a reasonably thorough assessment of the health effects of this reform of the alcohol law and has also identified those problems. In my speech, I will confine myself to the point raised in this debate, namely the introduction of stronger drinks in retail trade. In practice, all expert statements warn of the effects of this bill. It is estimated that about 150 more deaths will result from alcohol. If we had another bill with similar effects, there would be a huge alarm. We cannot minimize the health effects of alcohol. This debate has raised the issue of alcohol tax revenue, which is around EUR 1.3 billion per year, but it is only about a fifth, perhaps even less, of the cost implications of alcohol in our society. So the estimates range from 5 billion to well up. It's not a minor matter. It has been examined that two things have a decisive effect on alcohol consumption. They are availability and price, and now both are visible: availability is improving, and I understand in this debate that, for example, the price of beer is falling. Well, they both contribute to the increase in consumption. And there is evidence that consumption is increasing in precisely those groups that are problem groups in which it should not increase. At the moment, when we go to the market and see how large the beers are — look at each one of you in the local market, how many meters there are on the beers shelf — they are much longer than dairy products, for example, in a very diverse way. This is not a problem of availability at the moment. When, then, we compare in many respects with Sweden and we are now talking about the need to get to a European level here, why is the alcohol content of beer in the retail sector in Sweden significantly lower? What is the basis on which we want to increase this percentage? There are many things that have been raised here about history. The prohibition law, which was repealed in 32 C.E., and many other things about history, has been compared. I'll have one, too: In 1969, the middle beer was brought to the stores. That was an important decision, and it was then said that this would not increase consumption, but from a posteriori point of view, the increase in consumption after 69, that is, the increase in alcohol consumption as a whole, was enormous. We moved to a completely different level, and the key factor was the introduction of medium beer into stores. Now there is a considerable change in this situation, so that even stronger drinks are imported, and when you follow the situation, without exacerbating how to apply for shops at the moment, you will feel sad to see that two hands are being carried in beer boxes. Its effect is not good. Well, then we've been talking about the employment effect. This issue clearly has a job-creating effect, and it has a job-creating effect, particularly in terms of increasing pressure on the work of the health and social services authorities, and it is also reflected in an increase in the working pressure of our safety authorities. This has also been stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. I don't want to make it worse, but this is the real situation. I am sure that, in the business world, this can be seen and, of course, the expert reports show that the Panimoliitto is strongly in favour of this, that is clear, but what this is for the well-being of society is something that needs to be considered and assessed in terms of the assessment of this situation by these experts who have made serious statements. Our central role in society is to promote well-being. It has then been discussed how important it is for people to shoulder their own responsibilities and decide what they are doing. However, the situation is that we have shared responsibility for these unfortunate consequences, and this is reflected precisely in the cost and the effects of nausea. That is the responsibility of our society, and that is why we must seriously consider how to deal with this issue in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u228	Mr President! First of all, I think we should thank you for a good debate on this subject. Although this is a rather difficult subject, I believe that the debate has been surprisingly constructive in this Chamber today. In particular, Mr Rehula, the former Minister, spoke well. I agree with almost everything he says. He asked a few questions and I think a few good arguments as to why this has not been done. With regard to this restaurant alvi, it is true that even at the beginning of the negotiations, when this group of government parties was set up, we asked the Minister for Finance. In fact, I think it was the first question of the then representative of the island that it is possible, at the same time, to reduce the alcohol sales in restaurants. This was then reviewed and the Ministry of Finance quickly came back to the knowledge that this was not possible. After that, we began work on the crackdown on standards. Firstly, I think that the original proposal of the STM was already a good one, and we made about a dozen additions to it, which in fact have been said a lot of good things today in this Chamber. The only thing that seems to be of great interest to me here, and where everything is actually crystallized, is whether it is now 4.7 or 5.5. Mr Rehula also asked about the direction that this European direction could possibly take in the future. We have different models in the Nordic countries, including monopoly in some countries, but then we also have Denmark, where people over 18 are currently allowed to buy 16,5 % alcohol around the clock, i.e. 24/7. However, in Denmark total consumption is lower than in Finland. In other words, there could be so-called Nordic countries. European models, to which Finland could then try to go in the future. Now this possible reform of us from 4.7 to 5.5 is extremely moderate, and the statistics will then show whether we can go to a European model such as the Danish model, for example. A few questions have been raised here during the day in the debate as to whether a group of three beers will now move from beer to cell four. I tried to ask Mr Rehula what you think, whether this is going to happen — and we do not know that. However, beer number three will continue to be cheaper in stores than four cells. I do not know whether the question of taste is whether people want to switch to four cells because of taste, because it is not so-called cost-effective to get a certain kind of drunk. So three will continue to be the most cost-effective in a certain way. If, because of its taste, some want to move, we cannot empirically have any research until we know what will happen here. A great deal has been said about the additional death of 150 people. This is a THL estimate. There are also many other estimates which, in my view, have taken greater account, for example, of the cross-flexibility of distribution channels. After all, in THL’s assessment, this new change in which stronger beer and cider and tentacles would enter stores would not change Alko’s purchasing behaviour, which means that people would also buy these products from Alko, even though they would apparently be more expensive there. And even if the price were to go down, it would be the same with this Estonian liquor rally, among other things, that it would continue to be normal. This is just not how it can be. In that sense, THL is allowed to look at this increase in their total consumption of 6% with quite critical eyes. Unfortunately, this has not been taken into account, in my view, by the cross-relations between the distribution channels that have been taken into account in many other studies. This is the representative. Mr Tölli talked about the fact that this law has taken good account of health policy issues — and I think that is also the case, especially health policy. Business policy issues, for example, have not received much attention in the explanatory memorandum of the law, and this was pointed out, among other things, by the Legislative Review Council. Then this last question, or actually the second last question about price and availability: Many advocate that access should now increase, which would then automatically mean that total consumption would increase. Many speakers have also spoken about the fact that in 2016, the Business Time Act was repealed and the third beer has been sold 650 hours more now since its reform in shops and yet people have not been drinking more alcohol. This, too, is an interesting indication that total consumption has fallen even though availability has increased. And then the price: It is estimated that possibly these four cells, tentacles, ciders could be cheaper in stores in the future. We do not know how much cheaper they will be or are they, but the only thing we know is that the government has decided to make a new tax increase of 100 million and all the tax increases made on alcohol have dropped total consumption. Here again, we will not know what will happen with the price. The last one, Mr President, is actually the opening hours for these bigger issues that have been discussed here. Many say that it would certainly increase the work of the police. First of all, this opening hours were released because, in the case of many sports competitions, for example, if there is an Olympic spear final that starts at 3.30 p.m., then it is a pity that at 4 p.m. you have to close the restaurant when people would have liked to watch this competition. This was one of the reasons. Well, another reason why it might be like this kind of slim opening hours, which is now optional, i.e. no one has to keep all night open these bars, if you don't want to: in those taxi queues there will be most of those fights, and now, if we have a sliding time, then maybe there won't be so many of these taxi queues in the future and we'd have to like a certain slide in it. Again, in my opinion, the debate has not taken sufficient account of the fact that it can actually have different effects than what has been said here in general. Here, Mr President, a few comments on the future law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u229	Mr President! In that speech by Mr Töll and some others, an interesting contradiction has emerged in this issue of availability. On the one hand, it is stated that alcohol is now good and the shelf is full of different alcoholic beverages, but on the other hand, the next sentence fears the problems that will follow if access is improved. I cannot fully understand this logic now. Otherwise, we should understand that we do not now have such a clean table. We are talking about the problems that exist as such, as if we had the option of getting rid of them. I do not believe we have the option of having no problems with alcohol and of somehow ending alcohol consumption in an instant. There's no way that's gonna happen. The Prohibition Act couldn't do that either. Mr Rehula asked about the European drinking culture and that is, of course, a wide-ranging issue. There is more to that culture than drinking, and surely it is not possible to provide for a European drinking culture in Finland. However, the outcome of this process, this liberalisation, could, for example, be such that we could have — whether or not there is — any beverage in the grocery store, and that would not lead to a national disaster and would not fear that the country would swallow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u230	Mr President! The Government's proposal to reform the alcohol law is part of a long continuum of alcohol law, which has already started since Finland's independence. As we are well aware, the absolute regulation and control of the prohibition law did not lead to the desired result. It's been tested. The Prohibition Act did not eliminate alcohol consumption in Finland but in time gave rise to an unfortunate phenomenon, the tradition of alcohol trolling. Since the repeal of the Prohibition Act, Finland has slowly moved towards a more liberal alcohol policy, with the word "slow". This government proposal is very welcome, because not one Finn will benefit from the articles and regulations that have followed since the 1930s, which are more harmful to business and society than benefits. It is particularly important to take into account the economic impact of the proposal, which is expected to be positive for trade and create jobs, at least for grocery stores and the small brewing industry. As has been pointed out in several speeches here today, it is also very important that the government should have the objective of deregulation in general. Where would the regulation now be clearer and more for the citizen than for the alcohol law? This is a good example of the achievement of this government's objective. There is also the right economic policy in this particular economic situation to deregulate and thus pour more fuel into the flames of growth. It must be borne in mind that the reverse of these health aspects is that the alcohol industry produces both tax revenue and more and more export income for the government. The blue line is to highlight the better conditions for entrepreneurs to operate. Mr President! The main question here is whether we trust Finns to the extent that we can release slightly stronger alcoholic beverages into shops, kiosks and service stations. Are we Finns prepared to loosen the flame to such an extent that, for example, 5.5% beer can be bought on the shelf of the store in the future? Today, in the debate on the debate, I noticed that the liberals' free will apparently end when the alcohol law is on the table. The exception seems to be at least my esteemed representative, Mustajärvi. In the context of my freedom of conscience, I believe that we no longer need a strong guardianship. Well, it's time for the negative, the liquor cards, and the alcohol inspectors. Legislation must change with society. In 1995, tentacles and cider came to the grocery stores. We're still alive, we're still talking, we're arguing about the same things. It seems strange that a 0.8% increase in alcoholic strength will result in such a hard twist. Perhaps this withdrawal could then be described as extreme in the words of Mrs Wallinheim. Allowing A beer for grocery stores was one of my own election themes, and it would be good to have this good innovation in the glass. Pils and lager-type beers at this 5.5% limit would taste like what they can be at best. It is then that quality is sought as a consumer rather than quantity. A small step for beer, but a great step for freedom. I therefore very much hope for support from the opposition, and in particular I am looking at the Finnish People's Party and the Group of the Greens, who, at least on election machines, have received support for this line. I hope that this will also be reflected in practice. One important innovation in this is, of course, the removal of the production method restriction. This also makes the high-quality tentacles available on store shelves. In addition, for example, dose requirements will be waived, small breweries will be authorised without special requirements and the licence may be permanently renewed until 4 a.m. Personally, I would have been prepared to release even wine for sale in shops and to reduce VAT on alcoholic beverages sold in restaurants as part of the overall solution, but in living life, you rarely get anything you want. Of course, the government has been so good and fast that so-called soda liquor is available in the store today. Mr President! Blues believe in man and his ability to shoulder responsibility and enjoy freedom. I warmly support the government's proposal to reform the alcohol law. The Social Democrats have never had the ability or the will to do so in the government before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u231	Mr President! It will not be clear tonight how your article should be written about this European alcohol culture. On the other hand, I do not know exactly how all the EU countries operate, but those things that have been very little in the course of the debate have to do with access to alcohol insofar as the bill on authorisation is now written. We have a situation today, where there are A-licences and B-licences and there are C-licences. In the future, we will only have one permit, which I believe is part of the way towards the model that, at least in a very large number of southern European countries, in other words, when there is a place to drink, then no one at the door will have to think about what is going on inside the walls. Of course, there will be profiling today and there will be profiling between different places of sale, but it is not a small change that there will be only one permit in this country that a person who needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u232	Mr President! I would like to raise another important issue, or at least I have received questions from Finns as to whether foreign online stores will be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages to the Finnish consumer in the future. There has been a great deal of confusion about these provisions and, of course, they have been interpreted by the European Court of Justice. The current alcohol law prohibits distance sales of alcoholic beverages from abroad, but under certain conditions it is possible and it is for the national court to assess these conditions more closely and to give its final ruling in the case. This was discussed in the Court of Appeal in spring 2017, and since it then became a complaint, of course a final judgment will then depend on the decision of the Supreme Court. In other words, the current rule on this distance selling has not been changed in the reform. This is important to clearly tell these people who have asked about this. Then let us look at this decision by the Supreme Court and then, if necessary, amend the provision on the ban on distance selling. Personally, I would see that it would be desirable and justified in today's world of cross-border shopping, that certain provisions would also allow alcoholic beverages to be bought in foreign online stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u233	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u234	Madam President! Finland’s success has been based on and continues to be based on the good level of education of the population and is based on high-quality early childhood education and basic education. Education has created well-being for us and has made it possible for Finland to develop into one of the most powerful and prosperous nations in the world since World War II. Finnish education also attracts a great deal of interest and appreciation internationally, and it is our job to ensure that this continues to be the case. Regrettably, the government's proposal to freeze index increases in the administrative sector of education and culture in 2016-2019 as part of central government economic adjustment measures has been and continues to reduce the level of education and skills. The austerity measures targeted at education are hitting directly on the future of our children and grandchildren. The objective of Sipilä's Government Programme is that "Finland is a country in which you want to learn new things all the time" and "the level of knowledge and education of Finns has risen in 2025, which supports the renewal of Finnish society and equal opportunities" and that "Finland is the leading country in education, knowledge and modern learning". Excellent objectives, but unfortunately this proposal, one can say, for a small part, but nevertheless, as a cut in education, does not support this objective. Well-functioning and high-quality education enables many young people to hope for the future and a path to work. It is obvious that index freezing in education will put pressure on the quality of teaching and the deterioration of the teacher-student relationship, and these measures will also increase the risk of exclusion for young people. At its worst, the decline in the quality of education can lead to an increase in the number of school drop-outs due to a lack of motivation for learning and insufficient support due to the lack of time of the teacher. I am concerned about the impact of government decisions on the development of social exclusion among young people. For its part, this bill is worrying in view of the cuts that have already been made in education and training during the previous term of the government. It has been cut from the Youth Guarantee, detective youth work and youth workshops. I would also like to highlight the oversized groups of children in early childhood education and kindergartens, which undermine the ability of skilled and skilled staff to take the child into account and support development. The effects of this extend far into the child’s later life and are likely to weaken the success of school. In the end, savings will generate additional costs when, in the event of a reduction in preventive early support, we have to resort to heavier, corrective measures. In basic education, growing group sizes is shortsighted. A child needs grown-up time and attention. For example, prevention of bullying at school is best achieved if group sizes are reasonable. The Government and the Ministry of Education and Culture want more university degrees at the same time as the number of teaching staff has decreased in almost all universities. The Finnish Association of Scientists and Professors have signalled that support staff for education and research have decreased by as much as a quarter since 2012, and it is already apparent that the basic functions of universities have deteriorated. The Government proposes that the law on liberal education be amended so that the average unit prices of liberal education institutions are reduced in line with the index increase in 2018 and these savings are proposed to be made on a permanent basis. Liberal educational work and educational institutions under it are very closely related to the Finnish educational heritage. It complements and expands the rest of the education system, supports lifelong learning, and it is often through liberal education that young people and adults at risk of exclusion can be helped and supported. The operating conditions of academic colleges must also be guaranteed for future generations, and unfortunately this proposal will contribute to weakening the operating conditions of adult education centres, folk colleges, summer universities and so on. Then, Mr President, I would also like to point out that this proposal states that a busy timetable has been one of the reasons why opinions on the draft law were only requested from a few quarters. Indeed, that list of opinions is very limited, and I am convinced that many people would have liked to say so. I therefore hope that the Committee on Culture will now hear from those who have not been consulted during this consultation. Mr President! Finland's economy is returning to a growth path, which is a very great source of joy and praise, but we should make an effort to bring this growth to a stable, permanent path. During this period, securing Finland’s traditional strength, the knowledge base, is of paramount importance. Research and training should be invested courageously and adequately. Some of the effects of cuts in education will only become apparent after a long period of time and the development and financing of education will therefore require coherence and long-term sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u235	Madam President! — It still feels good to say this. The Sipilä government has done a lot of good. In particular, I have enjoyed a number of non-standards that have brought flexibility to a number of issues on a practical level. However, one of the major mistakes the government has made is cutting back on education and research. This proposal is a continuum for this line, which therefore seems to continue throughout this four-year period. And the nature of this operation is such that it is intended to be permanent. That makes this particularly worrying. In view of these economic growth figures at the moment, which bring additional game reserves and the opportunity to assess how these additional euros, which, for example, through taxation now come, are being used, it seems somewhat difficult to accept that precisely now here is the need to implement such a few million savings. That makes this particularly difficult to understand. This section, which describes the cuts in museums, theatres and orchestras as well as basic art education and upper secondary school education, is certainly a much bigger message for these cultural actors than this self-surgery. This message is very clear: the government does not appreciate museums, theatres and orchestras. This is a serious message for Finnish civil society. Knowing how much civic activity, even free work, is now in this cultural framework, is the message that we are going to reduce even more from the diminishing resources. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities considers measures aimed at strengthening local government finances to be important, but it is worrying about the long-term reduction of state funding for early childhood education, education and cultural activities. According to the Finnish Museums Association, financial cuts undermine the operating conditions of museums without achieving any of the objectives justifying such cuts. The Finnish Museums Association proposes that the amendment proposed in the statement be rejected. According to the opinion of the Finnish Symphony Orchestras (Suomen Symphony Orchestras), continuous cuts in funding will increase the negative impact on the work of art institutions and prevent the realisation of the Government Programme’s top project, the accessibility of culture. The Finnish Symphony Orchestras (Suomen Symphony Orchestras) believe in their opinion that future planned cuts will cripple the entire orchestral institution, while about 80 per cent of all orchestra costs are wage and social costs. Mr President! Although this proposal states that the consequences of these cuts are being assessed, it is not a good way or good legislation, that cuts are being carried out and it is in such a hurry — as Mrs Räsänen said here that there are not even experts wanted to listen, but it is as if it has been made in such a way that just now is being cut from the culture that you can take from there. This is not good legislation, unfortunately it has to be said. Even if you want to speak well, it's impossible at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u236	Mr President! Although this is not a major cut right now, this freezing of the education index increase differentiates education between different municipalities and schools. According to recent Pisa studies, I remember that even now these differences in education and learning are quite large depending on the different regions. That tells us that some municipalities can afford to spend more money on that learning, education and research than others. For municipalities with migration losses and otherwise difficult to find employment, this is the kind of signal that upper secondary school education, community colleges and basic art education, for example, can be cut and must be cut, because the central government share of small amounts is going to be reduced. In this government proposal, we should look specifically at those municipalities which no longer have the capacity to correct the cuts themselves. Large municipalities like this will probably even out in their own budget if they want to, but in small municipalities they mean that, for example, student numbers are growing in classes or then some level of special additional education will be exhausted altogether. We must understand that, now that the economy is on the rise, we should continue to invest in education, research and development and give a signal from the government that: Finland invests in the future and does not want to cut a bit of education, because we made this promise earlier, last spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u237	Mr President! In its proposal, the government is freezing the index for education and culture, which in fact means cutting funding together with increasing costs. In particular, I would like to highlight these cuts in the free civilised work of the government's proposal. Folk high schools are already in great financial straits, and the cuts planned by the government show how little the work they do is appreciated within the government. As far as education is concerned, the enthusiasm of the two-wheeled assembly to cut out education is not surprising, but the approval of the Prime Minister's Party centre for the vaccination of liberal civilised work is far from central for the benefit of the provinces. Adult education centres also carry out valuable work supporting additional self-motivated studies, especially among older people. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government wants to continue to punish the very field of free civilised work. It produces results on top of and in addition to state aid. On the contrary, would it not be necessary to support such action in a tight economic situation? Mr President! I would also like to point out that it is a matter of opinion whether such a network of artistic institutions is needed throughout the country, but the fact is that, as long as such a network exists, these cuts in funding cultural institutions are actually cuts directly to the municipal economy, because they will never be able to produce their own operating margin with ticket receipts and charges. The result of these cuts is that the municipality will ultimately have to pay. I understand, however, that the government is not meant to weaken the local government economy — that is what I have heard many times said — but now, however, that local government economy is being weakened in the back.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u238	Mr President! When the Minister of Education announced his budget presentation, he stressed that the savings from education were over. But as we can see, it's not over. Education has been cut with a rough hand during this term of government, and now we have another bill in our hands to cut it off. This is now the case with these indices, and this proposal will therefore continue to cut off both basic education and upper secondary school and also free cultural work and basic art education. In practice, therefore, all these parties will have to seek additional savings over past savings. We all know the importance of education for the entire life cycle of young people, and that is why these cuts from basic education and high school on top of all previous surgeries only undermine the ability of schools to provide support to all pupils and keep groups small enough. Free civilised work, on the other hand, plays an enormous role in the maintenance of lifelong learning. We know how it improves well-being, it supports the active role of citizens. For example, in language learning for older people, the importance of adult education centres is paramount. Similarly, sports training centres, which are also affected by this index freeze, do important work in the field of education in healthy lifestyles. In other Nordic countries, it is a real shame that the government is cutting it off, especially since we know that it is particularly cost-effective, because the contributions of municipalities are half of this. With regard to the organisers of liberal education, this decision would now mean savings of some EUR 0.6 million, and they must in practice look for it in their existing activities and reduce it. As far as liberal education is concerned, I do know that there are good news coming to it in the sense that additional funding is being directed towards creating a training model that meets the needs of immigrants. This is a very good thing, and it may make it a little easier to look for these savings. But the work that free civilised work is doing, precisely throughout the country, to activate citizens and increase their well-being is extremely important, and it is regrettable that there is also a desire to cut it when we talk about lifelong learning and citizens' activity. Then there is also this performance, which is directed at museums and orchestras and theatres. There is now EUR 0.76 million being cut, and, in this respect, a very small cut, if we look at the whole of the state economy, will really do a great deal of damage to these cultural institutions and our cultural fields. We all know how cultural institutions play an important role in the promotion of well-being — and there have also been various studies on this — but they also play a very important role in the maintenance and development of our own culture, and museums, for example, are the one that maintains our common culture, our background, also preserves for future generations, and that is why these cuts from museums, theatres and orchestras are something that is very difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u239	Mr President! Of course, it is not a pleasant task to be the only representative of the government party on the list of speakers. Fortunately, at least there are some representatives of the government party in the Chamber on this issue. Of course, I myself have had experience of being a member of the opposition during the last parliamentary term, and I made somewhat similar speeches on these issues, while during the last parliamentary term there were these savings in education, index freezes and so on. However, in the midst of all this, we must remember that we have heard good news about education, the last time we were told today that a cutting edge in economics would be set up. You can say that this is far from the everyday reality of education. Yes, but it's okay to believe that in the long run it's a good thing for our national activities and for the advancement of life. But, as has been said so many times, the government does not do these things because of its malice, but because of the marginal conditions of the economy. Of course, these surgeries have negative consequences. In any case, if we do not fully recede, more or less will mean that many countries will take precedence over us. But now that the economy is improving and, apparently, in the future there will be some more divisional resources, then it is time for those who will build governments to invest in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u240	Mr President! Yes, today’s good news is this setting up of a top economics unit — a little light. This government proposal, which is now under discussion, is detrimental to Finnish civilisation and education. The freezing of index increases in the administrative sector of education and culture also means practical difficulties for educational institutions such as liberal education. Adult education centres and other educational institutions are an important part of our society. The value of their training and other activities to society is impossible to measure in euros. Folk high schools, adult education centres, physical education centres, summer universities and similar educational providers included in liberal education work meet more than one million Finns each year. The action is currently reaching a huge number of Finns, and this must be the way it should be in the future. When it comes to exclusion, loneliness, community-building, liberal education is one of the most cost-effective medicines for the above-mentioned issues. Free civilization has a long tradition in our country. It can be considered to reflect equality in Finnish society, development through learning and transparency. Liberal civilised work also plays an important role in civic activity. I believe that one of the great things about the quality education services provided by adult education centres, adult education centres and other actors is their openness to everyone. This is something we as Finns can be proud of. Similar open and accessible training services are not available in too many countries. The activities of the institutions of liberal education at national level must be safeguarded now and in the future. The role of education institutions should be strengthened and the value of their education to society should be seen. Instead of saving, I would prefer to see the activities of liberal educational institutions developed actively as part of the Finnish educational service provision. For example, the development of course-based co-operation in various fields between educational institutions in liberal education and other subjects of study could be encouraged. In many areas, there is a great deal of expertise in the organisation of specialised and continuing training. Resources and coordination are bottlenecks in this respect. Mr President! The government is now cutting off this valuable activity. Reducing the operational resources of liberal education seems to have become a trend almost every autumn. When you think about how much has been cut off from the educational institutions in liberal education over the last few years, you just have to wonder how practical the services are still at the current level. Savings are reflected in practical activities as price increases and reduced educational provision. This surgical rally should now be here in the area of free civilised work. The savings to be achieved are not in line with the losses caused by the cuts, so I am opposed to the government's cuts in this very valuable activity for society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u241	Madam President! This is where I think the previous speaker may have taken up the most painful point in this proposal, that is to say this part of liberal education. The student weeks and lessons of folk high schools, national sports centres, adult education centres, summer universities and study centres are being cut quite significantly here, and I am particularly surprised that they have not been asked for an opinion, they have not even been consulted when preparing this proposal. There is an urgent timetable here, but it has been possible to request statements from the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, the Association of Museums, the Symphony Orchestras and the Federation of Theatre Organisations. It is, of course, a very good thing that these are the people who have been consulted, but why is it that the request for a statement has not been sent to these free civilised workers, who are not covered in any way by these commentators, such as the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, at the same time? That is why I think it is absolutely an obligation for the Parliamentary Committee on Education to hear these elements of liberal education when it comes to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u242	Mr President! Mr Räsänen has already pointed out in his opening speech that, in fact, the government's proposal has been asked for opinions from only a few quarters because of an urgent timetable, as it says. This is indeed extremely regrettable, especially since this is a savings law which, if implemented, would target education and training activities of great importance for the future of many young people. The savings laws, like this law, which we have before us, are always difficult for the person to whom the law is directed. In the past, Sipilä's government has received a great deal of criticism about the shortcomings in lawmaking and the failure to carry out impact assessments. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the government has not learned from the mistakes it has made and the criticisms it has received. As Mr Niikko said earlier, cuts in education and training are becoming increasingly difficult. We have already had a lot of them to do in this parliamentary term, and therefore their effects will become even greater in the future. This is particularly the case in the smallest localities, such as the representative. That's a good point. Mr President! I believe that the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy should have extensive impact assessments of the impact of the law on the functioning of educational institutions and, in the same way, sufficient time to consider whether these very unfortunate cuts are absolutely necessary with all the consequences. In this context, of course, I also appeal to the representatives of the government parties and to their own discretion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u243	Madam President! It is true that surgery is never fun or encouraging, but it is worth remembering where the situation started. During the last parliamentary term, the government cut the finances of the municipalities really severely — I do not remember a billion, but it was a large amount. The second point is that during this parliamentary term the local government finances have recovered and last year the municipalities have already produced surpluses. In other words, the capacity of municipalities to operate has improved very much during this government. And now, if we assume that we are not putting our economy in order, think, ladies and gentlemen, of the situation that the Finnish economy is facing the kind of difficulties that we were facing during the last parliamentary term. We would probably be in the hands of the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, and that would be such a harsh way that we would not be asked what would be cut off from. It is always better for us to be able to measure our own economy in the right proportions in relation to the productivity of the national economy. We know that some EUR 4 billion has been cut hard, but if we are going on the road now that we are squeezing about everything and not allowing the economy to recover... — which it is doing all the time, by the way, this year's growth rate in the national economy is 3%, but next year it will be more than 2 per cent. So we're heading in the right direction, and this is the path we need to take. - If we start from constantly throwing money in there and here... I understand that civilised work, cultural work and such voluntary cultural work are extremely important, and I do not underestimate it at all, but the municipalities today have an economic recovery at a fierce pace and it creates new opportunities. The government has also made many reforms that will create more savings and room for manoeuvre in the state economy in the future. This too should be remembered before next time you throw harsh words at what the government has done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u244	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u245	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new tax collection law and to amend a number of other laws. As a result of the proposal, all taxes falling within the scope of the Tax Collection Act would be subject to a uniform tax collection procedure, which can be regarded as a very positive objective. In the Government's proposal to harmonise the rules on the minimum amount of tax to be imposed, it is proposed to amend the Real Estate Tax Act so that the minimum amount of property tax to be imposed would be EUR 10. The taxation of grants would also be harmonised in order to reduce the administrative burden. It is also proposed to amend the Income Tax Act so that scholarships and grants for studies, scientific research or artistic activities, as well as prizes for the recognition of scientific, artistic and public interest activities, would be the income of the tax year in which they were paid. These are all tax clarification and harmonisation from the citizen's point of view. In order to promote the detection and detection of corruption-related offences, the Tax Administration's right to provide tax information on its own initiative, including identification of the taxable person, to the preliminary investigation authority, would be laid down in the Law on the Publicity and Confidentiality of Tax Information. In the fight against the shadow economy and corruption, this change must be supported, although a great deal of work remains to be done by the government in the future. Mr President! In the past, Parliament has, among other things, reformed the Customs Act and some other laws, and many accompanying laws have been subject to numerous technical amendments that have been linked to the Preparatory project. Together with the reform of the tax procedure, it is intended to allow savings in the Tax Administration for around 100 person-years of work by 2022. This Ready project will be implemented in several stages. The first stage of legislative reforms specifically concerned own-initiative taxes and came into force at the beginning of this year. The next steps of the project will take place during this and next year, when a number of new tax laws will enter into force. In this reform, more than 100 different and, in part, incompatible systems are to be transferred to a single tax administration information system. It is therefore quite surprising that there have been so many different information systems in the Tax Administration, and it is high time that the Tax Administration became part of the single system. Hopefully, it will also clarify and speed up the tax administration's processes and thus also bring benefits to taxpayers. Mr President! In the long term, by promoting digitalisation and harmonising practices, it is more generally possible to save a great deal of tax resources for all of us. This is probably an acceptable objective for the whole of Parliament, and I hope that these digitalisation projects initiated by the Government and Parliament will also be realised as concrete savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u246	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u247	Madam President! This bill, the government's proposal, concerns the law of the Orthodox Church, and in the same way as when dealing with church laws, must also respect, in accordance with the principle of freedom of religion, the preparation of the Orthodox Church's own law. I also think that this bill is well-founded and worthy of support. I drew attention to two points here, which I shall briefly comment on. In the Orthodox Church, it is proposed that the voting age should be reduced from 18 to 16 years in the elections of the parish council and vicar. In this respect, the Orthodox Church is now following the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, where the voting age in the parish elections was calculated from 18 to 16 years with a change of law that entered into force in 2009. But in the Lutheran Church, the age limit for the vicar’s election is still 18 years. Here the Orthodox Church is now taking a bit ahead, as it were, as a pioneer in this regard. Surely this is good in view of the fact that the aim is to increase the church turnout of young people and, hopefully, other activity in the activities of this church. The second entity, which is related to this, then applies to Article 108 of the Church Act. ) which provides that an employee working in services and church services as well as in diaconia and teaching must be a member of the Orthodox Church. Well, this change, which is now coming to this, has to some extent to do with the technical change in itself, because this is about to end the function of a legal church counselor and to delegate these tasks partly to the director of the Orthodox Church Service Centre and the lawyer of the Service Centre. But in any case, as I understand it, we are now extending the staff who are subject to this qualification requirement, i.e. the presentation and expert duties of Orthodox faith and church canonical law at the Council or at the Church Government, to be a member of the Orthodox Church. Then, even later, the church order provides for more detailed provisions on these tasks or members to whom this applies. Well, this government proposal deals with the relationship between this amendment and this article in general with the Constitution and the Statute and also with the Employment Discrimination Directive. I think it is good to say in this context that it is important for churches and religious communities to have the right to demand the conviction of their employees in accordance with their community, in which, of course, the basic prerequisite is that they belong to this religious community, in this case the Orthodox Church. I believe that this proposal for its part is very much in line with the principle of freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u248	Madam President! As a member of the Orthodox congregation, I can say from this bill that the bill is very good, clear and acceptable. It is based on the Church Law of 2006, which gave the church order of the Orthodox Church to be adopted by the Council in due course. I have been a representative of the Council for one season, and I can assure you that things are really going through there carefully and precisely so that, when you go according to the teaching of the Orthodox Church, of course, this ecclesiastical aspect and the view of life that orthodox have will also be taken into account in the administration, of course. It's obvious. The fact that the voting age is now reduced to 16 years is, in my view, a very welcome development, because it also strengthens the ability of young people to participate in congregational decision-making and to participate actively in that congregation. It is one of the strength of our congregation. I would also say that when there are only about 60,000 of us Orthodox people in Finland, it means that the better we are united and work together in matters for the benefit of the congregation, the stronger we are as a small congregation. Of course we do not. very strong ecumenical cooperation with parishes throughout Finland. For example, in my municipality of Ilomants, this cooperation is a day-to-day work for people. The change in the law of this legal assortment is probably based on the fact that when there is a small church and then there is this church service center, which, according to the law of 2006, entered the church, it is responsible for a great many practical matters of the church, and then there is that legal expertise. Basically, this is a bit of red tape that is being dismantled. Of course, a church, if you consider it to be a matter of some very demanding task requiring interpretation of the law, even in the interpretation of an administrative law or another law, will hire experts from outside the church. That possibility is also available. I very much welcome and support this bill and hope that it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u249	Mr President! Unlike the previous speaker, I am not a member of the Orthodox congregation. That is why I think it is a little strange that we are here now to decide their affairs. As far as I am concerned, it would be good if the churches themselves decided on these matters. But that is how it is now in our legislation at the moment, and that is how it is done. I personally welcome this proposal to count this voting age to 16. I think it is very good, and I also think it is good that it is not. This is the same practice in the congregations. As has been pointed out here, here on the Orthodox side it would now be a little more extensive. We all know that the turnouts in the congregation elections are not very great, but quite a few young people are involved in the congregation’s activities, and then it is good that when they are active, they can participate in that decision-making themselves. In that sense, from a democratic point of view, I am very pleased that the voting age in the Orthodox Church is being calculated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u250	President! For Mr Mikkonen's information, once the church order has been established on the basis of the Orthodox Church Act, the church is, of course, autonomous. It operates independently and decides independently on its administration, its employees and the money that the congregation and the church have at their disposal. This is what it's all about. When 16-year-olds get to vote in the congregation elections, it is indeed an excellent thing. When it comes to the community of some 60,000 people, it is in that community that unity and the power of doing things together will come to light. Without the unity and the desire to do things together, the opportunity for a small church to do the task that has been assigned to the church and what the spiritual mission of the church is would be much more difficult. This government proposal now under discussion is very much in support of this objective and is certainly accepted unanimously by the Church as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u251	Madam President! When there is a debate on the age of voting and the possible reduction in the age of voting, including in national elections or local elections, I think it would be good to learn a little lesson and learn from the way in which these changes have worked in church decision-making. Indeed, since 2009, this legislation has been in force in the Lutheran Church and now in the Orthodox Church. I think it would be good to have and hear the experiences of the churches in this change for this debate, which will certainly continue to take place more and more from the activation of young people in political decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-19-ps-89.u252	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The general discussion and proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 15 September 2017. We shall now resume the general debate.
