ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 2 March 2017, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 2 March 2017. In the debate, Päivi Räsänen Lea Mäkipää, supported by Mr Mäkipää, has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs must give an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u3	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the authorisation of a doctor as a medical practitioner for the health surveillance of A-category workers and to amend certain related legislation. The proposed amendments will bring our legislation into line with the constitutional requirements and implement the new directive on radiation safety in the European Union. The new authorisation procedure would ensure that adequate training is provided for those performing health surveillance in relation to the health effects of radiation. In the future, Valvira would also grant the right to act as a radiation specialist in occupational medicine to a licensed doctor. Valvira would also make available a list of occupational physicians with experience in radiation in the Central Register of Health Professionals. The proposed reforms and changes are to be welcomed. It is important and necessary for legislation to comply with the requirements of the Radiation Directive. The authorisation procedure ensures medical knowledge of occupational health care, the health effects of radiation and the monitoring of the health of radiation workers. It is also justified that there should be a single register in the future where knowledge of qualifications and rights can be found. Such a one-stop-shop principle means that the authorities are able to use the information already in use on a continuous and diverse basis. It is also a good thing that the proposal contains a sufficient transitional provision for a long period of time so that all qualified doctors concerned can make a notification. In the future, however, regulatory follow-up should also be taken into account in order to identify the full impact of the law. This is an important part of the process of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u4	Mr. Speaker! This proposal often concerns very women-dominated sectors, such as health care, which are exposed to radiation in the treatment of patients, and it is important that occupational doctors responsible for the working conditions and health of these workers have appropriate training, that they are properly registered and that they have appropriate powers. I myself myself, as an X-ray doctor, have been working on radiation exposure, and I know that this is very important in occupational health and safety. With this proposal, the granting of permits for these specialist experts and the maintenance of registers would therefore be entrusted to the Finnish Radiation and Safety Authority (Raysturvakeskus) for the supervision and authorisation of the social welfare and health sector. This is certainly an appropriate move, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Valvira's current workload will increase from the processing of applications for these rights, the adoption of a decision under the application procedure and the entry of the right in the Terhikki register. After monitoring the transfer of income support customers from the municipal social services to the Social Insurance Institution and the enormous difficulties it has encountered, all these transfers must indeed ensure that there are no problems that we have seen today. Of course, this is a much smaller measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u6	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act and some related laws. The aim is to remove some of the employer's reporting obligations relating to lay-off and dismissal. It is proposed that the employer's obligation to notify and investigate the employer as laid down in the various employment relationship laws be waived. This proposal is partly a consequence of changes to the Change Security Policy in 2012. The employment policy objective of change security is to speed up and facilitate the placement of the redundant or laid-off worker in the new job. This proposal now under discussion is intended to reduce the administrative burden, in particular for employers who regularly employ less than 20 employees, and this is a very good thing, since it will simplify the regulatory environment for the employer. The administrative burden of the company usually involves what the employer’s obligations are. Individual and diverse obligations may have created a difficult picture for the employer. The proposals contained in the proposal are a step in the right direction to simplify regulation and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. It is also one of the government's key projects. It aims at better regulation and better standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u7	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 1/2017 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the Protocol and the Declaration of the Convention and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u8	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u9	Mr President! The initiative proposes the introduction of net billing of small electricity. The justification for the initiative defines the period of time during which the netting takes place in accordance with the market price of electricity. In the case of net invoicing, the electricity user pays the difference between the electricity consumed and the electricity produced to the electricity sales company over a specified period of time. In this case, the small producer will pay only the difference between the value of the electricity purchased and the value of the electricity sold by the electricity bill. The system encourages individuals to invest in solar power, for example, because solar power production peaks in the middle of the day, but consumption is concentrated on the morning and evening. The competitiveness of electricity produced on a small scale in a decentralised way at the point of consumption will be enhanced by the absence of electricity transmission charges and energy taxes, which will make it affordable for ordinary consumers. The energy source used does not always cover the energy needs of the entire property, so the electricity is taken as part of the network as usual. In other times, however, the house is self-sufficient in electricity, when it is natural that surplus electricity is fed into the grid. The electricity system operator is obliged to take production into his system, but at present there is no need to pay fair compensation for it. So the worst situation can be that the house produces more electricity than it takes from the grid but still has to pay for the electricity it takes from the network. This imbalance is contrary to the sense of justice and hinders good development. From the point of view of combating climate change, we also need renewable energy from small units in addition to conventional energy production based on large units. Small-scale electricity production and the related service, installation and maintenance business also enable new jobs to be created. For example, the installation of 10,000 new photovoltaic systems would bring work to Finland worth between EUR 60 and 90 million. In particular, solar power sees a lot of potential. Even in spring winter, much can be gained from the sun, since the efficiency of silicon panels is better in the cold than in summer heat. In 2012, 27 gigawatts of electricity were produced by solar energy in Germany, corresponding to the annual production of four nuclear power plants. The Finnish Meteorological Institute has made a comparison between Helsinki and Rostock in its solar research. Throughout the year, solar energy is only about 5 per cent better in Rostock than in Helsinki. A comparison with Germany is meaningful because the country is one of the leading countries in solar power produced by households. The mechanism for net invoicing should be simple in order to avoid negotiations between electricity companies and consumers in the form of bureaucracy, mixed practices and legal disputes. The connection to the small-scale electricity generation network must be simple and automatic within the short time window. In Finland, smart telereadable meters are already widely used. Net invoicing improves the economic viability of small-scale consumer-driven electricity production, as set out in this initiative. In the case of housing companies, such as blocks of flats, the introduction of rear measurement would be a step forward in the procurement of joint solar panels. This initiative is just one of a number of actions to be taken, and I hope that the committee will consider all the measures needed to promote decentralised renewable small energy in the context of the examination of the initiative. Promoting civic energy will also improve security of supply throughout the country, as the fragmentation of production in the grid will reduce the risk of major electrical disruptions. The introduction of an hour-to-hour internal electricity consumption and net production will ensure an equal position of consumers producing renewable electricity on the electricity market. Now, the various smart electric meters between network companies measure the own electricity production of the property in different ways. The economic benefits of a similar solar system for consumers now vary from one network company to another. Equal treatment of consumers, improved profitability of systems and improved transparency in electricity trade can be ensured through the introduction of an hour-a-hour net computational measurement. Mr President! The draft bill states: "The amount of electricity to be transferred over the period used as the tariff price is calculated only on the basis of the current market price for electricity. The electricity supplied to the grid by the small producer will be credited to the small producer, including the costs of electricity transmission and taxes." Finally, I would like to thank all those who signed the initiative, thereby demonstrating your support for the promotion of civic energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u10	Mr President! First of all, thank Mrs Karimäki for this good initiative. This requires a long-term approach, and it is important for Parliament to try to turn the heads of the ministry so that even small ones have power. We have too much control over the idea that only the big ones have energy. After all, there is now a climate and energy policy report before Parliament, which pointed out, for example, that there is no real potential of 10 terawatt hours for air heat pumps until 2030, which is now being achieved at this rate. It is quite clear that it is with the help of solar power that these hybrids can be utilized even more effectively, so that the amount of electricity needed, for example in the field of ground heat, is, in fact, very minimal, and it is important that today's technology, for example, with geothermal and solar energy systems, is left with extra electricity, and at that point this net metering is particularly important. In my opinion, Mr Karimäki made a particularly good point that we need to create these opportunities in housing companies and even in larger housing districts to do so so that there could be own solar power plants without having to have transfer fees. In other words, it should be extended so that small cooperatives in residential areas would also be able to avoid transfer fees, which would certainly lead to efficiency in the use and development of small energy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u11	Mr President! Mr Karimäki's presentation is good in such a way that we can have a debate in this Chamber. The future of electricity production is very different from what it is today. It seems that this kind of local electricity generation is increasing, and when smart electricity grids are really made smart then we can also adjust electricity consumption by hour. It is very important that we make the electricity consumption curve more even. My own view, however, is that it is worth constructively considering that, at one point, if the transfer prices of a property producing its own electricity are reduced, it will inevitably lead to the other members of this electricity network paying more transmission prices, and then it may not be fair anymore. And when, in time, the Energy Agency changed this definition of reasonable profit so that a return of 5.92 per cent on the current use of the electricity network can now be taken into account, it will lead to even higher transmission prices. And if this good initiative by Mr Karimäki were to be implemented with the simple details you put forward, it would lead to an increase in electricity transmission charges for small and medium-sized enterprises and individual consumers. I do not think that this development necessarily supports Finland's exports and the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. These are quite complex issues, but the starting point for your initiative, Mr Karimäki, is excellent, because now, in the forthcoming climate and energy strategy, Parliament must recognise that electricity generation is changing substantially and it is obvious that buildings themselves will produce electricity in the future and that this base load will change substantially, and the further this goes — for example, that solar panels are being sold today on the turnkey principle — the less we will then need this cogeneration. Thank you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u12	Mr President! Finland has developed precisely in terms of how the meters work and how to automatically connect to the network, i.e. both consumption and the supply of electricity. From that point of view, of course, the proposal is a good one. We also have the possibility, for example, of adding electric cars radically to it — now it is becoming the kind of development — that the car can be charged at night and used for electricity and, if the car owner so wishes, will also give up when there are peak loads. Then the need will surely be the kind of thing that can be paid more fairly. But if you push your own electricity out during a good time and no one consumes it, then surely there must be some systems in which the broker and just the one who transfers electricity will get his own out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u13	Mr President! Mr Eestilä raised an essential point. In my own speech, I wanted to draw attention mainly to the fact that if a small-towner gets a neighboring plot on the roof of an industrial building to put those solar panels on the roof, it is somehow absurd for that electricity generation to be subject to transfer taxes. These are the obstacles to small plants or, let us say, to power generation, to break down and ride with the fact that we are able to create this people's own. In my opinion, it is particularly important that we enable the development of electricity consumption and electricity storage in form and in another battery technology to develop huge leaps in the next few years — we can store solar power and solar energy even now, and through geothermal heat, a day-long heater, so that the use and heating water will be taken care of during that day, perhaps in the winter of a few months ago, outside electricity will be needed. And it is remarkable that when Mr Karimäki brought up this German model, it was weeks before electricity consumers received money when they consumed electricity. There was so much overcapacity that there must be a very balanced balance. But of course I'm not worried about it if my electric bill is negative. Welcome to a situation like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u14	Mr President! Indeed, Parliament is dealing with the energy and climate strategy at the moment, and it has focused mainly on the issues of large-scale electricity production. It is really necessary that we also consider how to promote distributed small-scale energy. For example, Mrs Myllykoski spoke very sensibly about electric hybrids and storage, which is indeed the future. We have had a good development in the fact that since 2009 these remote electric meters have developed. Making our electricity systems intelligent and working in many directions is a very important objective. When the committee discusses the various aspects of the initiative, including what Mr Eestilä rightly raised, it is certainly wise to seek solutions which are the best solutions for the development of small-scale electricity production and the development of business opportunities for SMEs for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-03-ps-17.u15	Mr President! Recently, a lot has been said about intelligent transport and, as it were, we are now focusing on cars, but in fact this logic, which is what is now under discussion in intelligent transport, also applies to objects, housing, houses and everywhere. Today, new cars, just ordinary cars, when they are bought, are on the Internet, their functions can be adjusted by mobile phones. And when these intelligent power grids, that capacity and intelligence are made available in them, that means that when there is a water heater, underfloor heating and everything, they can be controlled from a distance and automatically or even manually by a cell phone, and when they are in a long series, then to a significant extent these very spikes, which are expensive for the consumer and which create difficulties precisely from the point of view of controlling power, can be solved. In fact, it seems that the market goes without helping its own track and this small-scale production is increasing locally, regardless of the way in which regulation works. But if the legislator keeps up with this development, it will provide a framework for us to promote individual investments so much that these large-scale investments no longer need to be made on that scale. And future researchers estimate that these large power plants, which today also have some pollution of the climate and the environment, are past time and near the factories of the future have their own power plants. So that's where the power output is pointy, too. In that sense, Mr Karimäki's initiative is a good thing that we will gradually be able to discuss the changes that we will inevitably face. And while we are still talking about these smart grids, in addition to intelligent transport, it is worth raising the issue of intelligent housing now, because there is a clear lack of integration of all these energy-consuming functions and the lack of intelligent units in buildings. Intelligent driving, intelligent transport and intelligent living must be combined and put in the same package.
