ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u1	The third issue in the order of business is the election of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall be elected for a period of four years starting on 1 January 2018 and ending on 31 December 2021. Representatives have been given an extract from the minutes of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which includes the committee's assessment of the person who came forward. The application for the post has been visible in the Central Office. The election will take place like the election of the President, in short. The ballot shall contain only the name of the person to be elected, so clearly stated that there shall be no confusion about the person intended. The other kind of ballot will be rejected. The election will be held using one urn. The representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn in the order of roll call and in such a way that the contents of the flag are not visible. In the election ceremony I ask the following representatives: Antti Kaikonen, Jukka Kopra, Maarit Feldt-Ranta and Ari Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u2	The result of the vote shall be declared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u3	After having received more than half of the votes cast, Dr. Petri Jääskeläinen has been elected to the post of Parliamentary Ombudsman from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u5	Madam President! Today we received once again good news about the development of Finland's economy and employment. According to the latest figures, the employment rate has risen to 69.7. Another happy news is that long - term unemployment has fallen for the first time into long, long - term periods of less than 100,000 now being 95,000. Another third increase from the employment figures is that hidden unemployment is currently decreasing rapidly. It tells us that there is demand for labour, that there are job vacancies in the labour market and that even those who, for one reason or another, have been outside the labour force or have not been active jobseekers have sought their way back into the labour force. All of these tell good things that Finland's economic situation continues to improve. Another good news from a couple of days ago is that even the latest economic forecasts from outside the Ministry of Finance have predicted that this year's growth will be more than 3 per cent and for the coming 18 years well over 2 per cent, up to 3 per cent. The VM will make its own prediction later, but these are certainly indicative. In these, I think it is essential that growth really does not look like a push anymore, but that growth in the years 18 and 19 at this high level also shows that growth is on a truly stable and sustainable basis, which continues to give confidence that the economic policy line is right and that it is producing results. We should be proud that with long-term work and decisive action, this growth has been strengthened and more and more Finns have the opportunity to enter the labour market and to take care of themselves and their loved ones. [SusannaRoom call] Despite this, the economy is growing and employment is improving, we predict that this year's debt will have to be raised by more than EUR 4 billion, and next year's budget will be built up for a debt of EUR 3 billion — that is, in a situation where the economy is growing so strongly. In this context, it is worth recalling once again that we have no allocation, no allocation, no possibility of increasing permanent expenditure — no possibility of increasing permanent expenditure, no matter how much we wish — because there is still no growth that has turned the public finances into a plus. This should be borne in mind. We must stick to the austerity decisions that have been made, and even though public opinion is expressed that the government's financial discipline is slipping, I would like to say from here that it is not. We are sticking to the EUR 4 billion savings programme that we have made, in its details. If any of the means are not working or are being implemented, we will be looking for a replacement. The same applies to the income side, or taxes. There have been many debates, for example, about withdrawing the increase in the lower limit of property tax. This was possible because the income from property taxes had developed so positively that we did not have to do so. And it is logical to the government's economic and fiscal policy that we do not make any additional tax increases because we have achieved the same result anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, to the supplementary motion: It increases government debt by EUR 62 million but remains firmly within the spending limits. The government will also make this proposal so that Parliament will have a so-called undivided reserve of EUR 40 million for its important supplementary budget proposals. Perhaps I could go through a few of the largest individual expenditures: EUR 5.4 million for crisis management expenditure, i.e. the extension and extension of UNIFIL in Lebanon – it is important that we maintain Finland's participation and its amount in international peace-keeping operations. EUR 5 million for internal security and its reinforcement in a one-off manner, targeting investments in the fight against terrorism, strengthening civilian intelligence and speeding up asylum returns. The Border Guard is presented with the right to launch a tendering procedure and to conclude a contract for the purchase of seven seaboats. The European Union shall participate in this procurement by means of its own financing decision. A major change to the original budget proposal is an increase of EUR 118 million in central government transfers of basic municipal services. This major change arises from the fact that, after the audit calculations of the municipalities' central government shares, this money belongs to municipalities, and the government wants to do so, because we have already decided in the Government Programme that the state will not weaken the municipalities' financial position by its own actions. This would have been a more difficult situation, but as we estimate that EU membership payments will decrease by around EUR 103 million net, it gave room for manoeuvre to make this solution. In other words, in a somewhat simplified way, basic municipal services are secured by reduced and reduced EU member contributions. There are a lot of other, smaller important things here, partly technical. Finally, I would like to highlight the infrastructure projects: EUR 2 million for the repair of level crossings as a start and as a step-up to important work. But then maybe a big single thing, a $6 million investment in building the Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway as a starting shot for next year. This is because when we look at our transport projects, this Kirri-Tikkakoski road is the first priority. This was already stated in the Transport Policy Report last year and the projects have been put into practice in advance. Kirri-Tikkakoski is also in favour of a large investment in bioplants in Äänekoski and a much growing volume of traffic. However, I would like to point out that, when all in all this is about 150 million projects and will be divided into several years, financing decisions will be taken in the next few years, first in the spending limits debate, in strict accordance with the framework and the spending limits rule, so that we do not go beyond our framework and thus slip out of strict financial management in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u6	That is what I shall decide to give the ministers first the floor before the debate. Minister Vehviläinen will begin, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u7	Mr President! I will come back to what the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has already mentioned, that is, this EUR 118 million will add to the government contributions of the municipalities. Let me give you a little more detail about what this is all about: Of this EUR 118 million, EUR 109 million is due to the correction of the cost-sharing adjustment between the state and municipalities. In the background, the cost-sharing review is now carried out annually, and not every four years as it was in the past. The cost adjustment for next year is therefore based on the state contributions paid to municipalities from three years ago, i.e. 2015. In recent years, the revision has generally resulted in a slight increase in the share of the state in municipalities. In August, however, at least I and, I believe, officials were surprised by the fact that the cost-sharing review would reduce the central government shares of municipalities by almost EUR 180 million next year. The amount seemed great to all of us. A few weeks ago, it became clear that the initial revision did not significantly reflect the costs to be taken into account. In the background there is an error in the statistics on the finances of municipalities. The concrete reason for this was that HUS had not recorded the costs for EUR 430 million in the 2015 data collection, and thus Statistics Finland did not receive the correct data and the information about the problem was not transmitted to the Ministry of Finance. The error was revealed only after the Association of Local and Regional Authorities began to compare the costs of different years. No errors of this magnitude should occur in the future. I'm sure everyone will agree with that. The Ministry of Finance and Statistics Finland are now scrutinizing the error and ensuring that it will not happen again. The situation is expected to improve significantly as the reporting of financial data is automated and when municipal and regional data programmes are introduced. The Municipal Information Programme will be implemented from 2019 onwards. But it is not so bad that something good does not happen: with the above mentioned increase in the central government shares of municipalities, i.e. around EUR 20 per capita on average next year, and the increase is particularly focused on older and more ill municipalities. However, a few things can be said about the central government shares of municipalities next year: In less than a hundred municipalities, central government shares are estimated to increase from this year, and in some 200 municipalities, central government shares will decrease. 64 municipalities have a decline of more than EUR 100 per capita. In most cases, central government participation is reduced by a reduction in the number of inhabitants, as it directly reduces the imputed costs and the central government contributions paid on the basis of them. Several municipalities also reduce their tax compensation, which in turn is based on a more favourable tax revenue development in 2016. The decrease in the transitional adjustment of the 2015 central government share reform will also have a significant impact on the number of central government shares in some municipalities in the coming year. Ladies and gentlemen! As a whole, the development of local government finances has been positive recently: Perhaps the latest information from last week's Statistics of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is that the average municipal tax rate is falling for the first time in 20 years. This is a great thing. But at the same time, in the interests of honesty, it is good to understand and be aware that the economic development of municipalities is becoming more diverse and that we have a number of municipalities with limited financial margins and where there is genuine concern about the sustainability of the municipal funding base.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u8	Minister Berner, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u9	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this opportunity to speak on this occasion. And I would also like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for Finance for having received an increase of EUR 2 million to correct the level crossings for next year. In addition to the EUR 2.7 million previously earmarked, we therefore have a total of EUR 4.7 million available. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has drawn up a plan on how to deal with level crossings. We have 2800 level crossings on the network, of which about 5%, i.e. some 140 are in the weakest category. It is now starting and implementing, starting next year, the closure of level crossings and the possible implementation of replacement road systems and warning systems, starting with the most security-critical level crossings of Class 7. The aim is to achieve the widest possible implementation of these most critical aspects over the next five years and to ensure that they are removed. The Finnish Transport Agency designs, prepares and implements a system based on light warning devices on the state's networks for the new railway section between Lahti and Heinola, which will be implemented in 2018. The Finnish Transport Safety Agency Trafi defines criteria for level crossings where the use of the stop sign can reduce the accident rate more effectively — inventory and implementation will take place in 2018. The Finnish Transport Agency will explore the use of satellite navigation-based train positioning in real-time rail level crossings as part of the LVM satellite navigation system programme. In addition to this, the availability and use of spatial information is also explored to promote road safety. Overall, attention will also be paid to the overall safety level of the network and will also be taken into account when planning, building and maintaining the network in the future. All in all, this is an important whole, and the measures now taken are just the beginning. And I also hope that this programme will be completed in the next five years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u10	And now it is possible to have a debate on this subject. I'll ask those involved to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u11	Madam President! It’s nice to have nice papers from time to time in the gym and nice statistics. Today, for example, the OP Group has increased its own growth forecasts, by more than 3%, and they are also predicting that next year growth will continue to be so strong. The change in the economy has been significant during this government, and it has also been nice to see that not even the left side of the Chamber has been called for a turnaround, because this economic policy seems to be working. Now, in these recent statistics, youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, unemployment in general, has decreased, and that is when these people have actually enjoyed growth most. And as has often been said in this Chamber that growth should belong to everyone, so it is great that it is now apparent in this way that many people have been unemployed for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u12	Mr President! It is great that the economy is growing and the employment situation is improving, that unemployment is falling, but this budget supplement is missing out on the heart. This heart is missing for students, it is missing for pensioners, they are unable to improve their situation by improving employment, and there is nothing here to improve the situation for these people. Economic growth therefore does not seem to belong to pensioners or families with children and students. You are wondering and talking about an increase in debt, even though the economy is growing so strongly. There is no need to be surprised when you, the government, look at your economic policy. It is to cut spending where people are worst off and to give tax reductions to the wealthiest and more profitable people in this kingdom. This will lead to an increase in the structural deficit. This leads to a high level of debt. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance whether you have drawn attention to these digitisation projects, the fact that the state has a billion euro project per year — you explained it as Minister of Finance — i.e. EUR 700 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u13	Mr President! Mr Heinonen may have been a little modest: this year, it seems, economic growth will rise to 4% and then perhaps to 3% to 4% next year at least. There are good points in this supplement. It is very important that additional money should be made available to improve these level crossings. It is very important that events such as the Raasepor accident should be avoided in the future. There must be more warning lights and booms, and they must be built with determination. This section of the Kirri-Tikkakoski road is also very important. There are many important reasons for doing so, including ensuring the transport of products from Metsä Group's bioproduct plant and ensuring the transport of raw material. For many small municipalities, including my home, it is important that this small increase in the share of the state next year should come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u14	Madam President! Indeed, growth should now belong to everyone. I was a little optimistic, President, when I noticed that in this supplementary budget the government would have come to its senses in this respect and thought that this really is the case, it is fair and fair, and I saw that there will then be an increase in the funding of the municipalities in this distribution of costs between municipalities and the state. Disappointment was the fact that it was not a question — you will guess, Minister Orpo, what I mean — of returning this earned holiday money to hardworking nurses, cleaners, teachers and community workers next year. That would have been a good place, and I think, Mr President, that I could actually repeat once again the appeal we have made to you, Mr Orpo: Could you consider that, in the name of fairness and growth for everyone, you could cancel these cuts in holiday money for the coming year's budget? That's what you cut, concretely. Could, for example, in this context:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u15	Mr President! Mr Social Democrats, growth belongs to everyone. It is worth going to the workplaces, where this increase in employment rates is visible, that is, people, workers, are talking to each other there and many have heard that jobs are being created: growth belongs to everyone. As far as security is concerned, it is very good that, in this situation, the government is investing millions of money specifically in internal security, the police, the protection police and the Border Guard, particularly in the fight against terrorism. I believe that this will receive the full support of the people. In addition, EUR 3.8 million will have to be spent less on state compensation for integration, because these amounts of asylum are lower than expected, and of course the great thing is, as we have all seen in Parliament together, that more money is being put into the rehabilitation of front veterans. I would like to ask the Minister, now that we know that instead of the EU, we can give the Finnish municipalities more than EUR 100 million: in what direction will we go in the next few years in terms of the amount of the EU membership fee?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u16	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, the growth prospects of our economies are good at the moment, and in fact I think that this budget and supplementary proposal for next year have been made a little too moderate for growth rates, so I really think that the prognosis of the cooperative bank is closer to the correct one than that of the VM 2.1 on which this is based. But then again there is the reverse side of the coin: this supplementary proposal also increases government debt by 67 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u19	Mr President! It must be said to Mr Elo that even in the workplace, the workers wonder whether growth belongs to everyone. In other words, there is still a lot of talk about this competitiveness pact that has been concluded, and it is still wonders that the government does not have the will to correct this unfair decision as regards the cuts in the holiday money for public sector workers. Having discussed the big line of government economic policy, I drew attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo, once again said that there is no room for division. This is a deeply misleading picture of the policy pursued by this government. Of course, there has been a margin for reducing the income tax of 1.5 billion, which has favoured high income Finns most of all, and there has also been a margin for sharing the costs of the competitiveness agreement, which has a negative impact on public finances of almost one billion. The only ones for whom this allocation has not been sufficient are Finns with low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u20	Madam President! I am very grateful that Kirri-Tikkakoski finally received its funding. I say 'it' because the traffic is close to 20,000 vehicles per day, and with Metsä Group's investment that traffic is still growing. There were already very disturbing safety aspects and the lack of pass-by possibilities that hinder traffic flow was obvious. I would like to express my sincere thanks to both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport and Communications and the Minister for Finance for this decision, but also a smaller point: in this budget, more money was allocated to the municipalities, but it did not help all the municipalities. There's something for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u21	Mr President! When you listen to this debate, it seems that a lot of people in this Chamber are forgetting that next year billions of dollars will still be in debt to cover the country’s expenditure. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u22	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! It is great that Finland's economy has started to grow. That's what we're all happy about. However, I am also surprised when the Minister for Finance says that there is no room for division and the government itself is now proposing that an additional EUR 67 million be raised. Where there is consistency, I would like to know when you say there is no division and we will take more money. That is not a very coherent policy, Mr President. But when you're looking at this, you'll find there's a lot of unnecessary expenses. An example of this is this language experiment, to which EUR 2.3 million is now being allocated. It will not bring us any new jobs; on the contrary, it will threaten inequality. I would like to ask the government: Can you find no better destination for this money? There would be, for example, child welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u23	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although we now have a rather intense growth in relation to our history, I would still be a little concerned about the conditions for longer-term growth and ensuring it in Finland. It is not self-evident, as is our good export veto. But I would also like to draw attention to this supplementary budget: After a long wait, it was a really great thing that Kirri-Tikkakoski's repair work on the Fourths was now financed by my business, it is a very important project. All the representatives of Central Finland have worked hard on it, and we have also been here to talk a lot about it. It is a start-up grant for an important project, and it is actually a continuation of what was done during the last parliamentary term to repair the Four Roads at the end of Äänekoski and to electrify the track so that the pulp comes here to Vuosaari port in a good way. These are all important to the business community, but also to society in general. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one point:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u24	Mr President! Employment is improving, and that is, of course, extremely important. Reasons and merits can be shared with a lot of people, and the government is not without merit. However, it is important to remember that we have one million people who are not working and who are very low-income – more of course there is, overall – and we have to deal with it through the budget for that reasonable, fair share, and that is where we have shortcomings. Mr President! I agree with these powers to build the Kirri-Tikkakoski motorway. I would like to thank you very much for having done so. It is really the busiest two-band road in Finland at the moment, dangerous, hilly, and traffic volumes are constantly increasing due to Äänekoski, among others. It is also important for the Defence Forces and the Air Force and for the City of Jyväskylä and for the whole empire, because it is the kingdom's superior main route.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u25	Mr President! I too would like to join in thanking the government and the ministers present for this Kirri-Tikkakoski, Orpo and Berner. It's great that this bottleneck has now been taken away from Number Four. But I am generally concerned about this fate of the TEN-T network. By 2030, this should be a motorway all the way to Oulu or Kemi, and there is no money for this. That this project in Central Finland was also hunted for almost 30 years. How, then, will this equation be resolved in the future? Have we finished, for example, with that European CEF financial instrument, that there could possibly be money coming from it in the future? As this is the central road to waiting and waiting for them, yet the European Union is calling for this TEN-T network to be in order by 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u26	Mr President! Indeed, there is money coming for the development of the main railway line between Pasila and Riihimäki, and it is also important for us people who live there in the north. Of course, this incident at the Raasepor level also caused a lot of contact from the public, and it is good that this too has been addressed — even though there is very little money, but the safety of level crossings can be improved. As far as Kirri-Tikkakoski is concerned, it must of course be understood that the Äänekoski bio-processing plant is a national project and certainly needs this route. I agree that Route 4 is our main road. On the other hand, on the other hand, on the other side of the road, from that Third Street, I could say that there are large volumes of traffic there too, indeed more than ten thousand cars, and that would also require money. It has also been in the traffic report before. But luckily, there will now be money coming to Tampere for that particular arena project,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u27	Mr President! There are many good points here, but I would like to raise one point. Representative Elo raised this internal security, and I would add a rescue officer to those security authorities. As a rescue officer, I know how bad it is to see a car and a train crash at a level crossing. These dangerous crossings have been removed and attention has been paid to them, but this increase of 2 million is an excellent addition. It'll get you a little faster because every single accident at the level crossing is too much. This funding would need to be increased, because if we take off the unguarded level crossing, it will require a full-time track on that side to bring it to a safer point and there to a different level of traffic. More Needed for This Important
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u28	It is good that the government has responded to these level crossing accidents and their safety by an additional EUR 2 million, thanks for that. With this year's budget, it is 4.7 million, as the Minister said. This means that at this rate or at this level, our level passways will be removed in 68 years. 2085 will be the last one out, which means it's probably gonna take a tighter and better grip. For decades I have been looking at these level crossings on the front of the locomotive and I have seen close-miss situations and I would say that this stop sign does not change the situation much, but the semi-boom plant, which costs EUR 100,000. With this EUR 4.8 million, we will have 47 semi-boom plants, and that is of great importance. Its people will notice when those booms fall and the lights flash, but that stop sign is only one sign among the others, and then the danger continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u29	Mr President! Minister of Finance, who now apparently left his seat
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u30	Mr President! The Left Alliance has in its previous alternative budgets, when the economy has not grown, tried to boost economic and employment stimulus policies and even by increasing borrowing. Now that the economy is growing, our alternative budget is in balance, and neither does the government nor the government. And now, as a surprise, this situation is changing. The government will take more debt in next year's budget than the alternative budget of the Left Alliance. We have criticised tax recovery in this situation as the economy grows and we will continue to criticise it. Of course, there were important targets and the Kirri-Tikkakoski is the key. The second target, which is a large transport project, is a total of 117 million projects, i.e. the road link to Hailuoto. This is to be done as a PPP project, when, at a time when the state receives debt at zero, we, as taxpayers, will put perhaps tens of millions of dollars into the cost of financing it. That is not justified. Why has it come to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u31	Mr President! I would like to return to this proposal and its good solutions. It was nice to hear a professional, Mrs Wallin talking about level crossings, and this is exactly what we need, perhaps a long line of thinking, a joint programme to get every unguarded level crossing right now. One accident in them is too much, and the last one is too fresh in memory. Here, too, it is a good thing that security is still being invested in the activities of the police and the protection police, and that veteran money is also being further increased in accordance with this solemn decision. But to the end, thank you again for these transport projects. It is great that Kirri-Tikkakoski highway 4 is now moving forward, but also that the main route, which is the most important route in Finland, is now receiving additional track pairs and traffic from the south to the north and improving on the other side.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u32	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for presenting this amending budget. All projects are very good. I would like to draw attention to a few points. There is a real need for additional appropriations, especially for the central government transfers of municipalities. All the municipalities are currently making their budgets, and I believe that they are satisfied with this point, that small mistakes will now be corrected there, and I hope that they will be better carried forward in the future. The second point I would like to draw attention to is transport projects. Kirri-Tikkakoski is sure to beneeded, a project that serves the whole kingdom. But, in particular, these additional appropriations for the correction of level crossings are really needed. Many level crossings also exist in municipal centres, in urban planning areas, they must be repaired. But the last thing I want to say is that the services of the front veterans will be secured. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u33	And at this stage of the debate, I would like to give the following answers: the representatives of Meri, Harakka, Zyskowicz and Kalli. The Ministers' replies will then be received, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u34	Thank you, Mr President. We have now corrected the assessment of asylum seekers. Has the Council of Ministers taken note today of what the City Government of Helsinki has presented yesterday? In other words, they extend and propose to the council the extension of social and health services to a large number of illegal residents. I have asked Minister Saarikko about this in August when this was discussed on the Social and Health Board, and it was only said that the municipalities have self-government. But I will be wondering what kind of attraction this is and how we can be sure that this asylum situation will calm down if we start to have thousands of illegal residents in the country who will be provided with all the free services. So we can put an end to the whole asylum system, because everyone will be allowed to stay. The left and the Greens have been particularly involved in this. The Coalition Party, the Finns Party and one member of the SDP have opposed the City Board. How are we prepared for this now? This is a new attraction, isn't it? Summer's coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u35	Mr President! As a vocalist, I would also like to add my thanks to the Kirri-Tikkakoski road. But, as you said, Minister Orpo, growth is not becoming a spurt. Good for you, so all the more reason to demand responsible government finances. In this additional budget, too, indebtedness is increasing, not decreasing. The fact that a good economic cycle leads to an increasing debt reflects poor economic policy. You have brought about a deterioration in public finances. In 19 C.E., the structural deficit will be worse than the 2 billion that you have distributed to your friends in the form of a tax reduction — 2 billion in the cold when it was in order in your early stages. Minister Orpo, you must now be called the prodigal son. It is an incredible performance to increase both inequality and the sustainability gap. It is an incredible achievement that, during a period of high economic growth, there is a risk that the EU Commission will take you to the class. There is no allocation for permanent expenditure, but you must now be prepared for this temporary payment of EU membership.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u36	Mr President! The Left has praised or criticised the government's economic policy as a coalition, and we welcome these criticisms or praises, because this line of work led by Minister Orpo, the Government's economic policy works and the results speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u39	Mr President! I think there are two schools in this room. Others believe that now this vibrant growth that is going on should be shared, and others believe that how to ensure longer-term growth, even in the years to come, would be a prerequisite for growth. And when we know very well that industrial capacity is already well in use, investment is needed to ensure future growth, and that is why we should create more predictability for the companies and operators that are considering investment decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u42	We are now taking the floor of the ministers. First Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u43	Mr President! Mr Harakka, it is good that you are concerned about economics, but I think that you will be very concerned if you get to know the alternative budget of the SDP. So you must be quite shocked at the way it would take us to some place of great uncertainty: 1.8 billion permanent expenditure, the income side on top of total uncertainty. You've got to be really worried. I would be happy to continue the debate on this government proposal, because it is responsible. When everyone here really knows that every year, when we make the actual budget proposal in the autumn, a reserve is made for both the supplementary budget proposal and Parliament's additions, and this is 100 million. It's in the press releases. I do not know whether the Left Alliance, for example, has left this Parliament's reservation out of its own option, I do not know, but this is quite normal practice. As a long-standing minister, Mr Henriksson also knows it with certainty. I wish we didn't give the wrong impression. Debt falls significantly, by billions, and it is thanks to this turn of events that the economy has started to grow so strongly. Billions of dollars we take debt less than we thought and feared a year ago. It's the undisputed truth. This EUR 100 million, which relates to the difference between the actual budget and the supplementary and parliamentary increases, seems to me to be disproportionate. But as far as this increase in employment is concerned: Mr Yanar had obviously not noticed that today, too, there was a significant increase in employment. The employment rate has risen to 69,7 faster than forecast. If we are able to support this growth with a sensible tax policy, among other things, what is being done that encourages us to work and try to take up work, then we can achieve even the 72% target that we have set. This improved economic cycle will lead to the government’s objectives being realised one by one. There is still work to be done here, and I have said it many times, as well as the fact that debt is stopped, but this is the right policy. This is the right policy. You don't want to see the results. All you want to do is make a move on $100 million and say that debt will increase compared to the previous one. You do not want to admit, Mr opposition, that employment is improving: less than 100,000 long-term unemployed for the first time. Hidden unemployment is significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u46	And Minister Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u47	Mr President! First of all, I would like to respond to the question put by Mr Ihalainen about the creation of a new item with EUR 2 million transferred to it in connection with this budget supplement. This is a moving balance of EUR 2 million, which will enable the creation of a new item. This article and the appropriation will be necessary to enable ownership and corporate arrangements to be made. This appropriation may be used for ownership arrangements resulting from the incorporation of traffic management activities of the Transport Agency and the opening up of rail passenger transport to competition and for the management of the ownership of companies under the ownership control of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This is, for example, about paying labelling prices, as an example. The second whole then relates to Mrs Wallinheim's question. I have met Commissioner Bulc today, one of which has been the TEN-T network and the use of CEF funding. With regard to the TEN-T network, the question is that we want to achieve the TEN-T network in Finland, first to the Tornio and then to the Arctic Ocean. Here we also want to see a more diversified use of the CEF and a reform of its criteria. During the Commissioner's visit to Finland today, I have also left him a letter with a Finnish initiative in this regard, and we also hope that the Commission will consider this, so that we can also make better use of the financial instruments made possible by the EU. Similarly, we will be discussing this package and discussing it as part of the work of the parliamentary working group on how better to use the various financial instruments for the future development of infrastructure investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u48	All right, now is the opportunity to ask for replies again, and they will begin by Mrs Hautala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u49	Mr President! Thank you to the government for this supplementary budget for next year's budget. This clearly shows that there is growth: almost 70% employment rate and 56,400 unemployed fewer than one year ago. These results have been achieved by the budgets of last year and this year and by the measures taken by the government. Thank you to the government for providing additional funds for equipment and equipment procurement by the police and the protection police. And it is also of particular importance that the central government share of basic municipal services increases. There's a clear need. And everyone else here has thanked for the extra money the veterans received. It's a positive thing. With regard to the constituency of Vaasa, it is important that the construction of Vaasa air cargo station should be started and that Seinäjoki Airport should also receive a small scholarship. And the important thing is to protect the level crossings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u50	Mr President! I am still a little confused that the addition of next year's budget will also involve operational changes. In particular, the incorporation of VTS activities, i.e. maritime shipping services, raises major questions. I have great reservations about the incorporation of traffic control functions. With the incorporation of companies, maritime traffic control loses its official status. Under threat, for example, there is the right to use the Defence Forces' radar network. The VTS is a full public service activity. A few weeks ago, I tried to bring it up to a conversation. I would therefore like to hear again from Minister Berner how flexible cooperation between the authorities has been envisaged in the future and where this incorporation is now needed. Don't tell me the whole point of preventing accidents is to start competing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u51	Mr President! As has been praised here, it is good that the economy is growing and the employment situation is improving. That'll give us tax revenue. And I would also like to point out that the Border Guard's maritime boat project, as well as military crisis management, and, most importantly, the rehabilitation of the front veterans that every veteran can receive rehabilitation at the end of life. But then I read this report from the Treasury Department, and of course it is always good to give the government a slingshot: It is said here that next year, when these have been followed, all those on low incomes will be more than 30 euros less. That is what it means when future index freezes and then increases in tobacco tax — and it is also mentioned that poorer people are taking more tobacco — and so are housing subsidies cuts. I'm sure there's a reason for us in the government parties to think about how we can help the celiacs. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u52	Mr President! Indeed, the Government is proposing an additional 5.4 million for crisis management expenditure, with which Finland will then participate in the Lebanese operation with a larger number than previously decided. If one has ever wondered what good it is to send those Finns there for crisis management tasks, one would think that today it is becoming increasingly understood that the countries from which people need to go for asylum are being stabilised. So we see justification for it and it is important that Finns participate in crisis management, both military and civilian.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u53	Mr President! It is extremely important to note that central government finances have now been brought into a good growth path, and it must also be remembered that this event has not taken place on its own, but has been made up of decisions and kept the line that has been taken. Many of the opposition's speeches have talked about whether this line is even destructive or destructive, but if you look at that political history, then we had the last moments in this country to enter into the growing and lasting career we are now in. It should be remembered, however, that we still have EUR 100 billion in total debt and EUR 3 billion in borrowing next year. For example, today, when you look at the Finnish economy, the various sectors of the economy — although the forest industry, the chemical industry, the metal industry and so on — all these sectors of the economy have strong growth. And as we heard about the new prognosis of Osuuspankki, those forecasts are flattering. But even the fact that we're doing well has to earn again every day. I can't afford to be relaxed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u54	Mr President! It is proposed to authorise the budget to make commitments on renewable energy production aid on the basis of a call for tender. The amount of wind power that has become expensive in Finland has been supported by up to hundreds of millions of euros a year, and the total will increase to billions in the years to come. However, now that a profitable feed-in tariff system is finally being driven down for the investor in the long term, the government is already creating new, so-called technology-neutral renewable energy production aid, which is mainly directed — once again — to wind power companies. A large part of the ongoing wind power projects are owned by a foreign company, and many foreign wind power companies are already waiting for new production support in the water language to get even more euros from Finnish taxpayers with their lucrative business. I would like to ask the Minister whether renewable aid should not be directed more towards domestic renewable aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u55	Mr President! Mr Orpo, it is, of course, very positive that you have been familiar with this alternative budget of the SDP, but it does give way to the following question: if so, why on earth are you so concerned about this? Why are you, Minister Orpo, concerned that the taxation of low and middle-income employees and pensioners will be reduced more than in your proposal, or why are you concerned that the taxation of families with children will not be tightened? Are these not in themselves good proposals, especially when the same equation is achievable in such a way that the SDP would take less debt than the government? I do not quite understand your great concern about such proposals, Mr President, but I repeat the same: I am concerned and we are concerned about the rather historical equation of the government that, at the same time, you will be able to increase inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u56	Mr President! We are not squirming with hundreds of millions, we are reading this supplementary amending budget, and it says that this will increase borrowing by 67 million. It's a fact, because it's written here. And it is quite inconceivable that, now that we are concerned that, during such a high upswing, debt will continue to be maintained and additional debt will be taken into account, it will become a mockery of us as, until now, all colleagues here have almost felt with tears that every single euro must be put to pay the debt, that it will not remain with children and grandchildren, and that it will be a burden for them. It is strange that this too, that we are now warning against this debt, is a bad thing. Let me tell you the reason why the 67 million is now being taken: it is being taken because we were forced to find solutions to increase the political glue of the government in these difficult times, so that political consensus is maintained and the government remains united — good targets as such, important targets, but the real reason was this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u57	Mr President! The Government, Mr Viitanen, does not have at its disposal the yearly trick of robbing the Finnish Fund for Independence. I'm sure you'll get it that way. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u58	Mr President! Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the good answers. Of course, it must be said that it is great that Finland has been able to reach the economic growth of the rest of the world, but we are concerned that the government is not doing enough. For example, the reform of family leave or the reduction of inefficient business subsidies have shown very little ambition. We will see what happens to these things in the future. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u59	Mr President! There has been criticism or defence of individual expenditure, but there was talk of a long-term perspective. Let us now remind ourselves of what is well described in the last National Economic Paper. It contains an article on the reduction of the sustainability gap, a very clear pedagogical article, and it concludes in the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance that our sustainability deficit, or our uncovered deficit, is 3% of GDP, or 6 billion of its future ageing expenditure. It is, therefore, more or less the so-called divisional allowance that exists here if such a word is to be used, and there is a strong minus sign in front of it. It's good for anyone who thinks about these things here to keep in mind. If there is in future governments, this is the starting point for all its policies in the long term,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u60	Mr President! Indeed, good economic figures have come, and this shows that our government is making a good policy and that we are gaining confidence. It would probably have been this growth in Finland before if the previous governments had made such a policy, which creates confidence. Trust creates growth. As far as these projects are concerned: The Kirri-Tikkakoski road is excellent. It is well thought out to meet the needs of the forest industry and also to meet the transition needs. But it must also be mentioned that this government has also taken on the repair debt for almost a billion dollars and those asphalt machines have been warm throughout the summer. With regard to tracks, it is a great project that the mediation capability between Pasila and Riihimäki will be restored. Let us also hope in the direction of Tampere that the third track will reach Tampere. The pulp would pass faster from Äänekoski to Helsinki. The important thing is to support and invest in veterans. They have created our generation's growth and its basis for it. Unemployment among young people has fallen by 5%,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u61	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I would very much like to talk about the alternative budget for the SDP. That is the opposite of the policy of this government to take account of economic trends in the economy. We now have a slightly tighter line and, after one-off investments, we have a more clearly tightening, really basic, keynesian business line. You can name and sow suspicion, but you cannot deny this effort if you are any more constructive than your predecessors in your office. Private companies do not need any more tax candy in this economic cycle. Structural reforms and the strengthening of long-term growth are common goals. But is it not, Minister Orpo, that this must not happen, that structural reforms will remain with the next government and that debt growth will not be reduced until the next government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u62	Mr President! The cost of immigration is a very significant part of the state budget. Of course, they seem to be very difficult to assess, at least that immigration cost statement has not yet been produced by the government. According to current estimates by the Ministry of the Interior, the number of asylum seekers is falling below previously estimated. Four thousand people have been mentioned in this supplementary budget, which is lower than in previous years and should therefore contribute to reducing the cost of immigration. But Mr Meri has just pointed out that yesterday the City Government of Helsinki decided to provide illegal residents with extensive coverage of services, which will ultimately be paid by taxpayers. I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance Orpo myself, I did not hear you reply to Mrs Merelle: you are also a former Minister of the Interior from the worst time of the asylum crisis in 2015. How do you react to the plans of the City Council of Helsinki, which will hardly facilitate the work of the authorities to remove illegal residents from the country, and how all this will affect taxpayers
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u63	I will give Mr Rantakanka a reply and then the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u64	Mr President! There has been a change in economic policy and economic policy. In the previous parliamentary term, 100,000 unemployed people were born in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u67	And now, Minister Orpo, five minutes, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u68	Mr President! Thanks for the opportunity, I missed a lot of questions, but I'll start with a constructive line. So, Mr Uotila, I think it is great that we are all concerned about debt and that we want it to break. That is a goal we share and I am delighted that, despite the increase in this budget complement, we can now do much less debt than we thought a year ago, and that is because the employment and economic situation is better. Mr Harakka, we will do everything in our power to bring debt to a halt within the desired timeframe, so that the next government will not have to continue that work, but will be able to face the big challenges of debt in the 20th century with stronger and stronger public finances. Mr Harakka, if you meant by a slight tightening in this economic cycle that you refer to, for example, the tightening of corporate taxation, then I do not agree with it. I do not want to make any more fun of it or criticise it, but I will simply say that I disagree, because SMEs are precisely the place we are all waiting for now, the nation expects the new jobs to be created. [At the centre:Actually! ] And then it is quite wrong that we should, in this situation, when it has begun to grow, [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u75	Mr President! Let us start with that, when Mrs Rinne was very critical of this, that this is not happening in any way in families with children: I thought that when this broadcast from Parliament is followed by many Finns who have not necessarily followed the debate from the beginning, this is just a supplementary proposal, and that actual presentation actually has a lot of valuable, good contributions to families with children. I would like to mention, for example, this reduction in early childhood education fees by EUR 70 million next year. Free early childhood education will cover just ordinary Finnish families 6,700, and this will lead to a decrease in the early childhood education fees of the average Finnish family by over 1200 euros next year. Training for kindergarten teachers will also be increased, equality in comprehensive school will be strengthened by increasing the amount of equality allowance [Quick Five] And so away. So there's a great deal of good investment here now for families with children. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] In this debate, when it comes to a supplementary proposal, of course, what has happened in the economy is essential. In that debate myself, with many colleagues, I have pointed out that, fortunately, the economy is now growing. Ten years were difficult, and now the economy is growing, unemployment is falling and employment is improving. When we talk about growth figures not so high and say that next year growth would slow down to 2.1%, today we have already learned that, for example, the OP Group's forecasts have been re-assessed: they predict 3.2% growth for this year and around 3% growth for next year. We have also heard speeches in the Chamber about the possibility that even better figures will be reached. And this is reflected in the fact that employment is improving and unemployment is falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u78	Now we are going to take a few actual speeches before we restart the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u83	Mr President! Perhaps from this point of view I will continue to say that, indeed, Pirkanmaa is also used to working well with the representatives of the various parties and therefore, Mr Heinonen, I am delighted that the Tampere arena project is now receiving the money that has been worked for. Especially nice is the fact that, apart from the fact that this arena project itself is important, there is also a lot going on in Tampere and it is the Hall of Hakametestä and there. The wooded forest will then have such diverse sports, sports, hobby activities, such as girls’ figure skating and all this — or even boys’ figure skating. All of this can be taken forward, Mr President. In that way, this is a very positive whole, and it is always necessary to support physical activity and sport and the leisure activities of children and young people and adults and older people, all people. President! But this is indeed a supplementary proposal for next year's budget, and here, if it had been a good idea for the government to take up that fact now, when it is often said, by government parties too, that growth belongs to everyone, it could now have been done. We are talking today, President, later here about taxes. In this context, I am not going to go through the fact that the government seems to have enough money for tax cuts for the well-off but, at the same time, the least fortunate ones will be left out of all this growth; on the contrary, they will be cut down. I was also thinking of suggesting that when the government made one wise decision for next year, or the government parties in this autumn, that is to say, they cancelled the compulsory increase in the property tax, then now we could also make this same gesture for families with children, whose taxation is now being tightened: now we could cancel this tax squeeze on families with children. Representative Heinonen here said that there is going to be a good thing, including this reduction in the fees for day care. I agree that's a good thing. Here too, the government originally felt that, on the contrary, these day care fees should be increased, but, fortunately, here too, the wisdom prevailed and the government withdrew its intentions and then went in the direction that the opposition and the SDP wanted, that is to say, to reduce the day care fees. But, indeed, Mr President, I do not think it is fair for the government to say that no one is being taxed more heavily. Yes, the taxation of families with children is tightening, and that is a fact that could now be cancelled. Similarly, in connection with the debate, I raised the point that, while spending items are now being discussed here in connection with local government finances, it would have been very wise in this connection to show the particular appreciation that I would like to feel for the hardworking employees in the public sector. Now that there is growth, it would be wise to cancel these holiday money cuts that will hit next year. A lot of families would be happy about that. It would be a welcome addition to the daily lives of many workers, a hardworking cleaner, a hard worker, a teacher, a kindergarten teacher, institutional assistants, librarians and all of them, and surely it would be wise financially to have the purchasing power of these people improved through this. I would also like to mention the pensioners separately. It happened that during the summer, when the chairman of the central parliamentary group spoke, he called for clear measures in the spending limits debate to reduce pensioner poverty and for substantial increases in guaranteed pensions. I waited for these proposals, unfortunately they did not come, and that is why I will not stop talking about this until I see some sort of package of measures from the government to help the situation of the most low-income pensioners. It's not easy when all the medical cuts and all the others come at the same time. The situation will then be very serious for many people. President! To conclude — and I believe that the other speakers will come back to us later — we too were very confused in the demarcation that, in the context of this supplementary proposal, we suddenly find 2 million for the Ministry of Transport and Communications, as it were, to open up this competition for rail transport and to re-establish traffic control activities, and the question arose as to whether there was a certain kind of intrusion in the air, because there is no greater possibility for Parliament in this context of the whole reform which is going on, to assess and to take action in this respect. Suddenly, there comes a lot of money in connection with it on very thin, small grounds, and this is certainly something that will continue to be talked about in Parliament. On the other hand, I would also like to say at this end, Mr President, that I too think it is important and good that, for example, this level crossing money should be increased here, although it was quite clear from Mrs Wall's point of view how much more we actually need for these security measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u84	Mr President! The supplementary budget will increase central government expenditure by nearly EUR 100 million. As a result, government borrowing will exceed EUR 3 billion next year. I put it in the same way as the Minister for Finance and his example, following the Members of Parliament of the Coalition when talking about the tax element of the SDP's alternative budget. I was just listing the additions, not the deductions. They were presenting gross figures, not net figures. But only when the pluses and negatives are added together will we get an honest overall picture. In other words, in the SDP's alternative budget, taxation of low and middle-income employees and pensioners would be significantly reduced compared to the government proposal. So it is simply a question of taxing the day-to-day survival of a working family of children or of taxing the joy of ownership. Of course, I myself would not fall into this kind of dishonesty, so I would say that the supplement includes about one third of income increases and that net borrowing will only increase — only and only — by EUR 67 million. The supplementary proposal does not, however, point to a reduction in indebtedness by the government itself; it is in favour of the economic cycle. Your business is as good as your bad government. The fact that the economy is growing and debt is being taken up is a sign of poor economic policy. President! The supplementary budget is made up of very small items which are nevertheless of great importance. I raise three themes of great importance in good and bad, and they are all related to transport. First of all, there are probably dozens of us here who have thanked me for improving the transport arrangements of the bioproduct plant in my home town, Äänekoski, when the section of the motorway between Kirri and Tikkakoski is finally put into operation. The total amount of the mandate is approximately 140 million, of which only 6 million will be allocated for next year. At this stage, the importance of road investments by the previous government and, above all, the then ministers, Ihalainen and Vapaavuori, is much greater. And the gap between Tikkakoski and Hirvaskanka remains to be widened by the next government. Secondly, appropriations will be allocated for the splitting up of VR and for the incorporation of various traffic management functions of the Finnish Transport Agency. The preparation of both projects is still very much under way, and things have not been brought to the attention of this House. When new ownership arrangements are already being prepared in such a concrete way, neither the government nor even the supposedly neutral Ministry of Finance can claim that the decision would not be dashed to the desired end, regardless of the facts and experts. By granting a budget for this purpose, albeit that modest one, Parliament will accept the purpose. Here in Parliament, we have the right to testify about how Parliament's authority is being devalued. The third observation relates to meaningful decision-making and tax forecasts: the car tax is expected to rise by EUR 15 million more than budgeted next year, as the scrapping premium and the purchase aid for electric cars will shift the decisions to buy new cars this year. However, the corresponding reduction has not been entered in any additional budget for this year, and why should it be: it is about 1% of the total tax revenue and it is not possible to predict tax revenues with this precision? It is therefore simply a matter of cosmetics in order to make the revenue side look better, because this completely uncertain claim, which is therefore not taken into account for the corresponding expenditure, accounts for half of the revenue. In that sense, too, Parliament's authority is devalued by the fact that it is even bother to accept such uncertain and unreal numbers here with the full authority of the minister. As I said earlier, the government has chosen the way of the prodigal son. On that prodigal boy's path, this little debt-increasing document that hopes for a flimsy income is a small stray in the flimsy terrain.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u85	Mr President! The Finns of Peru prepare their alternative budget on the principle that we do not increase the overall tax rate and take more debt than the government does, in fact, slightly less. This meant that we started to build our budget proposal through targeting, i.e. in a way that the allocation of both expenditure and taxation becomes fair — that is, the old principle that taxation treats people and businesses according to their ability to pay, and, on the other hand, the principle of taxing more what is not useful or harmful to individuals and society, and less what is beneficial for people, businesses and society. And we know that the benefits come first and foremost from the fact that work, enterprise, housing and transport are doing well. These are fundamental issues, and we want their taxation not to be tightened up, but rather to be reduced. And then, on the other hand, so-called harmful taxes are raised and taxes on the wealthy are tightened, because they have the most ability to pay. That was the starting point. On the expenditure side, this makes it possible to refocus and we have done a large number of these. There was a debate on this earlier, but now I wanted to review it. Mr President! We have a supplement to next year's budget proposal, a rather large complement. It contains small amounts for a number of different purposes. The message that the Section for Local Government and Health, for example, has received during the expert consultation does not seem to have gone to the government during this two-month period when we have heard those experts there. The fact that the mental health problems of children and young people, for example, are a very serious issue today and a growing problem has become very clear. In the midst of all this, in a certain way, the welfare of children and young people is not a good situation. There is a need for more investment — unfortunately there are no. The second is for the same target group, i.e. child welfare. There are serious shortcomings and problems on that side. Yesterday, on the International Day of Children, they were the subject of serious appeals from social workers and child welfare authorities. These must be addressed very strongly. Unfortunately, the government has passed them and has not taken them in the way that would be necessary. Let me mention once again that the drastic increases in pharmaceutical costs have proved to be far too severe. We have people who have to choose whether to buy drugs or food every day, and yet it is mainly about the people, the old people, who have built this well-being for us. I would expect an improvement on this, but there is no such thing in this supplementary proposal. Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk here about debt. I would like to say that if the state invests in long-term assets, it is not a bad thing to take out debt. Now interest rates are low, but unfortunately during the last parliamentary term, and partly at the beginning of this parliamentary term, debt rates were so high that investments were nowhere near the same, i.e. the government used debt-taking for consumption expenditure. That path must be brought to an end, and this is happening in little detail — that is good. Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about the Kirri-Tikkakoski road. I would add that it also serves, among other things, the Air Force and there is an emergency landing area which is extremely important. It is indeed TEN, as has been said, and we should get to where Minister Berner said that EU funding for these major TEN projects would begin. Now Finland has not received it, and the project from Tikkakoski to Äänekoski and further north would be one of the most important roads in the country for which it would be worth trying to get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u86	Mr President! A few comments on that speech by Mr Kankaanniemi. He raised an important point about these matters of child protection. In Espoo, too, there has been a worrying increase in the number of child protection cases, and it has been found that one of the main individual reasons for this is the problem of parental intoxication and mental health. As far as the shadow budget of the Finns is concerned, it certainly has its merit in considering these young people and children. It merely drew attention at the time — I think it was Mr Arhinmäki who spoke about the responsible shadow budget of the opposition — to the fact that I am not quite sure whether such impact assessments had been carried out through the Parliament's information service in the shadow budget of the Finns based on them. Mr President! This proposal by the government to supplement the draft budget must indeed be supported. Mr Heinonen's speech went through the content of the proposal very comprehensively, and I am mainly concerned with safety. A total of EUR 3 million in additional one-off funding is proposed for investments in equipment and equipment to combat police terrorism and to enhance police asylum returns. These asylum returns are, therefore, the implementation of the conversion decisions issued with a negative final decision on asylum. A further one-off additional EUR 2 million will be proposed to the protection police for the equipment and equipment needed to combat terrorism and for the improvement of civilian intelligence. In addition, it is proposed to add the EUR 3.3 million to the costs of the MIV 15 marine fleet to the Border Guard. Mr President! According to the current estimate by the Ministry of the Interior, the number of asylum seekers is likely to be lower than the 7,000 previously estimated, i.e. around 4,000 applicants, and then it will indeed reduce their need for this integration appropriation by EUR 3.8 million, as well as the need for preparatory education for basic education and basic adult education by EUR 3.4 million. These are again such things, these numbers of asylum seekers, that they must be answered. As a Finnish state, we cannot suddenly go in violation of international agreements and prevent people from coming. Here the work that the government is currently doing in cooperation with the EU, the international cooperation where efforts are being made to bring these practices and the system into line, the phenomenon that is now being verified, the asylum seekers have people who do not have the actual need for asylum as defined by the Geneva Refugee Convention, but there are all kinds of economic reasons behind it, and then the search for the most attractive country, where it is then seen that the life would be most meaningful. But I would also like to stress that it is important for us at EU level to conclude those agreements in such a way that it is the most economical for Finland as well as the most cost-effective for security. Mr President! I would just like to say briefly what we, the finance minister, Mr Orpokin, has emphasised, namely how important we are, however, in terms of financial discipline. With strict financial discipline, we secure basic services for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u87	Mr President! We are now dealing with a government proposal that complements next year's budget. First of all, it may well be said that this supplementary draft budget will support the actual budget for next year. At the moment, we can welcome the fact that the current year's budget and the previous year's budget have supported the growth of our strong economy. This year we have been Europe's most growing economy. Employment has improved: we currently have 56,400 fewer unemployed than one year ago. And if we open up this 56400, we can say that there are many families behind that figure who have found a more solid basis in their economy. At the moment, our employment rate is 69.7%, and now it is estimated that next year we will reach more than 70%. In other words, we are very close to that target set by the government for the employment rate of 72%. Mr. Speaker! This supplementary draft budget contains a number of minor corrections, say so, which, however, are significantly more important than the sum of money: The previous speaker, Mr Ruoho, raised these increases in the allocation of equipment and equipment for the police and the protection police. Although it adds only 5 million in total, it comes to an extremely necessary point. Then the central government share of basic municipal services will be increased by nearly EUR 124 million, and it will also be able to say that it will make a significant contribution to the implementation of basic municipal services next year. Almost EUR 6 million will be allocated to vocational training, VAT compensation. This supplementary draft budget includes a number of transport projects. Several representatives have thanked this Kirri-Tikkakoski road project, EUR 139 million for it. It will also significantly improve the traffic at the Äänekoski pulp mill. And, as Mr Kankaanniemi said earlier, there is also a very important role on the road in view of the needs of the Air Force, and it is with this reserve landing point in mind. One of the transport projects is this elimination of level crossings: now, with this proposal, they will be removed by EUR 2 million. And, as Mrs Wallin said earlier, a very long road lies in the removal of all these dangerous level crossings, provided that the amounts are of this kind. But this is a good start, and hopefully in a year's time we will also be able to increase these appropriations for the construction of level crossings. The 1.3 million coming from the construction of the airport airport airport will be needed because Vaasa has developed and grown and there is a growing need for handling air cargo. This building of the hall is, in that sense, extremely important. Mr. Speaker! Parliament's so-called undivided share of this will amount to about EUR 40 million, and this week, of course, representatives of the government parties in the sections will be wondering what targets this money will be spent on. Although this is not a larger amount of money, I believe that it will still be able to make many minor corrections and to satisfy the needs of the representatives and then, in various contexts, the Parliament. Mr President! This is an extremely good and worthy supplementary budget, which must be adopted in accordance with the content.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u88	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a supplementary budget for next year's budget is very good and justified and well describes the current situation in Finland's economy. The economy is growing, and as we have heard about those forecasts from the various economic research institutions and banks for next year and the following year, and I can say with a clear conscience, the situation is quite different from that of four years ago, for example. The economy is growing, and as Erkki Liikanen, the President of the Bank of Finland, has said on many occasions, along with the heads of the economic research institutions, is currently growing very strongly in all major areas of the economy and investments are being made. It is important that investment is on the move. The forest industry has shown the way to investment in this area. This building of Äänekoski’s versatile pulp mill, a bio factory, was a kind of spiritual victory in the fact that investment is still being made in this country. It is worth noting what the Finnish economy still stands for at the moment. It is very much forest products. Forestry and the forestry industry, that is where the growth of this country comes from, and the message that we need to ensure that Finland's forests can also be exploited in the future is excellent for this moment. I have been slightly shocked by the debate on this LULUCF regulation and the RED II directive, namely the sustainability criteria for renewable energy that are currently being put in the final position in the EU. I have been quite shocked to hear from Finland that we should not be cutting our own forests, and at the same time, Sweden, for example, beats 80 per cent of the growth of its forests, and this House does not have any problem with the opposition's representatives, especially the Greens. But when Finland is at around 65 per cent at the moment and is about to increase the amount of felling to about 80 per cent of annual growth, that is then a huge problem. When we talk about climate policy, you'd think for the time being, at least, that's exactly what it is and the same thing when the neighbors get to the same level and manage their forests well. That is why we are doing a good climate policy, which would affect our budget and give room for manoeuvre to the people and, above all, employment would improve. The figures in this amending budget show that employment has improved. The employment rate is currently 69.7%. Will 72 per cent be reached during this parliamentary term, which was the goal? It is still possible to achieve this, but it means that financial discipline must be maintained. We must be able to give an outward impression that we are a reliable partner for all our trading partners and for all the companies and also for the people who are working, because with long-termism and credibility and reliability we are creating the growth that will then go a long way. If we go to the growth side of the economy to get quick profits or even to make extra debt on the grounds that this is going to heal the world in the blink of an eye when we take a few billion dollars in debt and start doing some wild things... That's not true. Finland has revived, taken over EUR 100 billion in debt to date. The budget for next year will continue to have a debt of EUR 3 billion. There's no such thing as a famous division. That is why it is absolutely necessary to continue along the same lines, and I am a little surprised that the opposition has criticised this competitiveness pact in its speeches. These critical speeches have come mainly from the left-wing coalitions, but there have also been some echoes of them. However, it was a personal agreement concluded by the social partners and it was a very good one. It must be remembered — many critics forgot to say it — that these cuts in the competitiveness pact have already been compensated through taxation. Taxation has been reduced in such a way that, according to objective research carried out by research institutes, compensation is slightly in favour of a few euros. I can't remember the exact figures, but it's about EUR 3 to 4 anyway. In other words, cuts have been made which, however, had to be made in order to get the state finances in order. The old folk wisdom that good and functional and healthy state finances are the best friends of all of us also applies to the most disadvantaged and most needy people, the sick, the elderly. For them too, strong public finances are always the best friends. Mr President! Finally, the fact that, now that employment has substantially improved and jobs have been created and, above all, long-term unemployment has reached less than 100,000 is an enormous achievement, because it is extremely valuable for its people to get a job, even if it is a little different from what they are used to doing. The role of public finances, which is extremely important to ordinary people, is the local government economy, and the local government economy has improved dramatically over the last few years and is now well off-puted, as it was always at a negative level during the last parliamentary term, with a huge downswing when huge sums of money were cut off from the municipalities. We therefore have great concern and responsibility for the recovery of public finances and the maintenance of local government finances, and then the distribution of these fruits of growth to an ever larger region in this country and to all of us is extremely important. Therefore, it is extremely important that we do not build barriers to the use of forests, the sale of wood products and the very valuable jobs that are created all over Finland through forestry. This is our joint task.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u89	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u90	Mr President! The chairman of the committee is now in other positions, so the committee decided that I should present our committee's report to Parliament. Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Functioning and Financing of the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health to include fixed-term provisions on the financing of specialist medical training in occupational health care for 2018 and 2019 in line with the timetable for the reform of social and health care and the regions. The current fixed-term provisions on the financing of specialist occupational health care training are in force until the end of 2017. The purpose of the Act is to ensure the level of training and quantitative adequacy of occupational health care specialists. To this end, state funds would provide grants for the costs of training doctors specialising in occupational health care, which would be borne by the Institute for Occupational Health, which would be responsible for continuing to pay reimbursements for occupational health specialist training to universities, to private health service providers providing specialist medical training approved by universities and to occupational health centres maintained by the employer. In addition, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health would fund specialist occupational health care training at the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health. The law is meant to come into force on 1 January. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The committee states in this draft law: On the basis of the current fixed-term law In addition to universities, the Finnish Institute for Occupational Health has been able to pay compensation for the costs of training for both public and private health care providers. The Government's proposal proposes to extend the separate funding of this occupational health care specialist training by two years until the end of 2019. In the budgetary plan for 2018 to 2021, an amount of EUR 1.9 million has been allocated annually to the Finnish Institute for Occupational Health under the bill. In the ongoing reform of specialist medical training, consideration is being given to bringing training in all specialised medical fields under the same funding so that funding equivalent to the current Evo funding can be paid to universities and other public and private educational establishments. The committee therefore considers it important that the current legislative proposal ensures the development of specialist medical training in occupational health care during the transitional period prior to the entry into force of the social and regional reform. The Committee also stresses the need to ensure that the network of university cooperation developed over a period of ten years and the system of training and long-term development of occupational doctors, which has proved to be effective, is maintained in the preparation of the reform of education and training. The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt this bill without amendment. Mr President! There has been an objection to this bill, and I would now like to ask whether I am going to raise this objection in this same speech, because it is an objection from us, or whether I should like to ask you to speak again. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : As there are no other speakers, you can now also raise an objection to this. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u93	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u94	Mr President! Just as above, the chairman of our committee has been prevented from attending today and the committee required me to present our committee's report. Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the financing of unemployment benefits. It proposes to confirm the unemployment insurance contributions for 2018. No change is proposed to the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions. In accordance with the Competitiveness Pact of the Central Labour Market Organisations, it is proposed to increase the unemployment insurance contribution of employees by 0.40 percentage points and, correspondingly, to reduce the average unemployment insurance contribution of employers by 0.40 percentage points. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions by 0.20 percentage points, of which 0,10 percentage points are allocated to employees' unemployment insurance contributions and 0,10 percentage points to employers' average unemployment insurance contributions. Mr President! On the basis of the reports received by the committee, the committee considers it appropriate to reduce the government's proposal and the fees set out therein and to change the burden of payment between employers and employees on the basis of the Competitiveness Pact. The cyclical buffer of the Unemployment Insurance Fund for the period 2017-2019 has been increased by up to 5 percentage points from the level of expenditure corresponding to the unemployment rate to 7 percentage points corresponding to the unemployment rate. In accordance with the Competitiveness Agreement, a proposal for an appropriate, higher level of buffer will be prepared after 2019. The Committee considers it important that the size of the buffer be defined in such a way that the level of unemployment insurance contributions can be kept as stable as possible. The committee's proposal for a decision is therefore that Parliament accept the Government's proposal without amendment. There is also an objection to this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u95	Mr President! This proposal proposes to confirm the unemployment insurance contributions for 2018. In accordance with the Competitiveness Pact of the Central Labour Market Organisations, it is proposed to increase the unemployment insurance contribution of employees by 0.40 percentage points and, correspondingly, to reduce the average unemployment insurance contribution of employers by 0.40 percentage points. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions by 0.20 percentage points, from which the unemployment insurance contribution of employees is allocated by 0.10 percentage points and the average unemployment insurance contribution of employers by 0.10 percentage points. The Left Alliance has not approved the Prime Minister during the current parliamentary term The pressure exerted by the Sipilä Government on employees' organisations to undermine working conditions. In 2015, the government first introduced a new form of mandatory legislation restricting the right of social partners to agree on working conditions. The experts broadly criticised the shortcomings in the drafting of forced laws. Finally, the government also acknowledged that the planned legislation would have been contrary to the Finnish Constitution and international treaties binding on Finland. So the government itself knew that their proposal was unconstitutional. However, the threat of forced laws and the prolonged economic downturn led to the so-called 'competitiveness' agreement between the social partners. Among other things, the agreement cut some 500,000 employees in the public sector by 30 per cent of the holiday allowance, and in principle the extension of working time by 24 hours per year concerned working hours for all employees, but the extension of working time mainly occurred in the public sector. Mr President! The Left Alliance has suggested that, in the autumn labour market round, a separate cut in holiday allowances for public sector workers in particular should be abolished. The Left Alliance calls for a more supportive wage policy in Finland. In our view, it is absurd that, when economic growth seems to have begun properly, Finland has committed itself to two more years of wage cuts, which, moreover, work in such a way that the government must compensate for reductions in wages by means of tax reductions in order not to reduce purchasing power. In this bill, the increase in employees' contributions and the reduction in the employer's contribution are also due to the Kiki agreement for 2018. For the reasons set out above, the Left Alliance will not accept this year's proposal for an increase in the unemployment insurance contribution for employees and an equivalent reduction in the contribution for employers. Instead, the Left Alliance accepts the 0.20 percentage point reduction in the level of payment contained in the proposal, which is distributed equally between employees and employers, i.e. 0.1 percentage points each.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u96	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u97	Mr President! The government's proposal for an income tax scale and the related amendments to the Income Tax Act shows the government's economic policy failure once again, in two different ways. The government's understanding of what taxation is all about is rather limited. That is what the Economic Policy Review Council has criticised the government for. Responsible taxation takes care of the financing and balance of public finances, and the government has left it to the Hunngo. The government's adjustment has failed in two different ways. When we look at the development of income differentials, the previous government’s actions — where adjustment, much more extensive adjustment, was accompanied by both tax increases and cuts — led to a levelling-out of income differentials that are a direct reflection of the income differential development to which the current government has led Finland. On the expenditure side, the government’s adjustment has been very unequal and has cut poor and sick, students and pensioners. When expenditure cannot be increased, it has quietly reduced revenue by hundreds of millions of tax cuts to its own friends. The option of the SDP is based on the fact that tax reductions are concentrated specifically on low and medium-income wage earners and pensioners. In this way, we propose changes to the income tax scales, which target precisely these target groups. At the same time, we are proposing other changes in the income tax scale. Similarly, the changes that we have proposed on the income tax side, as presented in Option 1, relate to a number of paragraphs, and I propose that the amendments to both sets of legislation under Option 1 be implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u98	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to support the amendments made by Mr Haraka. He was just telling us the essential difference between this current government and the previous government. When we talk about these inequalities and income differentials, the previous government was able to balance the economy, but the income differentials were reduced, but during this government the income differentials increase again as a result of adjustment measures. I am very sad that, for example, the Prime Minister himself admitted that this draft budget will increase the trend of inequality. That is why, President-in-Office, when the budget consists not only of revenue but also of expenditure and, in this case, we are talking about revenue or taxation, we simply need to have a harmonious whole between them, which contributes to sustainable growth and which is also fair, not unequal, but rather a place for these income-sharing problems in society. With this in mind, the SDP has made its own tax decisions, and here, as a whole, what we are dealing with here has been presented precisely in accordance with this amendment to the Income Tax Act. In addition to that, we also have other tax-related changes. But, President-in-Office, those representatives who always doubt the SDP's line and often express views on it, which are not true, have the opportunity not only to look at our alternative budget but also at this report, in which we will then go through all of our own proposals. Perhaps the important thing — perhaps for how many times I repeat — is to note that low-income employees, pensioners and also beneficiaries of benefits, i.e. different people who are dependent on unemployment benefit or otherwise, would treat them more taxably than the government is treating them, that is to say, we would reduce the tax burden on these people more and instead, in the interests of fairness and fairness, we would then take a little more from the most wealthy, the most well-off, and this is the basis of our own equation. In this protest, we also pointed out the fact that, at this stage, the economy is growing but, at the same time, the inequality is growing and then the balance of public finances is weakened by the government's rather generous tax decisions, so that the government seems to be able to afford the most well-off tax cuts and then these famous tax cuts in terms of the pharmacy reduction, the tax deductions of the owners of large forest owners and the tax reductions of millions of inheritances. This seems to be something that the government can afford at the same time as cutting off the lowest incomes and making decisions such as the fact that, according to the calculations of the information service, even this year, the purchasing power of pensioners remained a minus mark, which I find very worrying, Mr President. I believe that, as in the past, this debate on taxation will continue, and I am sure we will be able to return to many of these points, but in this context I would like to underline not only the differences in taxation between low- and medium-income employees and pensioners, but also the fact that the SDP, for example, in its own option, would not go on to increase the taxation of families with children, contrary to what the government is doing. There is also an important difference between our own options. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of good ideas here, but in this context, for example, one thing we are thinking about in our protest, President, is that at these times, when it would be wise to support, for example, household renovations and renovations to their own homes, it might be wise and, in my opinion, it would be wise to extend, for example, the household allowance to those living in blocks of flats. This is also what we are proposing to the government to do. I think it would be good and important for the government to be able to consider these development proposals of ours as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u99	Mr President! I shall be a little fulfilling Mr Viitanen's wish for a debate here. I believe that this Sipilä government has made a determined effort to reverse the growth of sovereign debt and has succeeded in doing so to a considerable extent and has also sought to balance the budget, the public finances, and that alleged change in income differentials has not been demonstrated, it fits in with a margin of error. The Board of Directors has implemented significant reductions in earned income tax in 2016 and 2017 and is now continuing along the same lines, taking into account, among other things, employee contributions, pension and unemployment insurance contributions, certain transfers from the employer to be paid by the employee, they will also be compensated for. Overall, there will be a significant reduction in the tax bases for earned income. There is an inflation check of 1.5% and then there is a genuine tax reduction. And I must say to the Social Democrats that this government has also dropped the limit of the so-called solidarity tax, the amount of the euro of annual income from which it begins, below what the Social Democrats decided in their own coalition. This government dropped it from 90,000 to 74,000, and it is still there, which means that on a tighter line in the solidarity tax this government is like its predecessor in the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u100	Honorable Speaker! Yes, indeed, this good report contains six objections overall, and this merely shows that some changes could be made to the government's line. I would therefore like to raise an objection to the amendments tabled in response to Amendment No 6, which relate mainly to the second legislative proposal. The 1st bill, or this scale law, would be accepted unchanged, but then on the other hand, on the other hand, on the 2nd law, we propose to amend the reduction in labour income by favouring the two lowest income deciles so that some 14,000 people there would receive an additional 10 per month for consumption. This one has a price tag of 50 million. Then we would also make the corresponding changes to the pension income deduction and disability deduction. The price tag for these is $30 million. As far as child allowance is concerned, we are proposing a continuation of this article and the entry into force of this provision. Its price tag is 70 million. And then, with the household allowance, we would increase this deductible fraction from 50 to 60, and I think it cost about ten million. Then we will make a statement on the reduction in development aid in line with our development aid model. Here is this objection, which is briefly presented in six.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u101	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the speeches made by Mr Harakka and Mr Viitanen in this Chamber. It is a matter of taxation, which always inspires great passions. If we consider taxation as one of the tools for reducing income inequalities, then even the small solutions will have an impact on the direction in which we are going. In my opinion, the solidarity of the Social Democrats' tax line is actually summed up in the disillusioned view that the two biggest income deciles are the ones that will disappear in this model of ours, if we look at the tax package, the biggest decile most and the second largest decile some, but instead of going down to the smaller the revenue decile, the greater the benefits will be. But I actually asked for the floor for two reasons. The second relates to the increase in the basic deduction. In the Social Democrats' model, it is proposed to be raised. It is an important increase in that, for the unemployed, for example, it is the only reduction he can make. For a long time, we have thought that income from work should benefit better than, for example, unemployment benefit. But this difference has grown over long periods of time to such an extent that, in fact, we have quite a large proportion of unemployed people who have to apply for income support to pay their taxes. There are two reasons for this. The second is that local government taxation has increased in the long term and the basic deduction has not followed what has happened in the change in taxation between central government and local government. Of course, government taxation has benefited more from the fact that there is a reduction in labour income and that there have been changes in the lowest categories. The second reason is that unemployment benefit has not increased according to what people's consumption basket has grown, no matter what the measure is. But a lot of estimates have been made about the minimum consumption basket, which relates to what is the minimum at which people get along. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u104	Mr President! There has been a debate on taxation and the difference between taxation during this government and the last government. In the past, I have, in my opinion, brought up the previous government, in which my party was also involved, but then the finance minister was first represented by Mr Urplainen and then by Mr Rinne, and then, at the request of the social democrats, it was actually called for a 50-50 approach to economic balance. So when saved, tax increases were also made, and it did not work. Our recession was only prolonged and prolonged, and it was only when this government started, when the finance ministers moved to the assembly and with the centre and the blues, that we found a common government where work was valued and it was decided not to tighten the taxation of labour — in fact, it was intended to reduce the tax burden on labour and to ensure that the overall tax rate did not rise — as Mr Kaikkonen said during the last Question Time, this is simply working.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u107	Mr President! Now the government should somehow decide among itself whether to increase taxation on labour or not. This is where Mr Heinonen strongly argued that the taxation of labour has not been tightened up, but it was Mr Kiviranta who was able to praise the fact that the lower limit of the solidarity tax had been lowered so that it had been tightened after all. Once you have had this negotiation among yourselves, let us get back to you. But the fact, Mr Heinonen, is that the majority of families with children who lost this child allowance will not be compensated. This applies precisely to families of low-paid people, families of hard-working parents of schoolchildren, because they are not affected at all by the drop in early childhood education. The taxation of this part of the Finnish, a significant proportion of low-paid schoolchildren — you cannot deny it — is being tightened. It's a waste of time to say that no one's taxation is going to get tighter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u110	Mr President! Mr Heinonen is invigorating the economic recovery and that is a good thing, employment is improving, the economy is growing. But when we talk about next year's tax solutions, which, through tax recovery on high incomes, cause a deficit in public finances and increase government debt, what does the large tax reductions for next year have to do with the economic development that has been achieved last year and this year? These tax recovery solutions make public deficits, make financing deficits and increase debt. In this cyclical situation, we should do something different. Now would be the right time to correct taxation according to the sacred principle that taxation should be based on the ability to pay taxes. More progress and easier taxation for low incomes!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u111	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, although I appreciate the fact that you are the only member of the coalition here — I think it is good — I would like you not to be so cruel to Jyrki Katai and Alexander Stubb when you reproach the lines of the last government here in general. It was all right that these tax decisions were made on a fair basis at the time. I shall now return to this child's allowance: Of course, there was a little to do with the Coalition Party at the time that the Coalition Party agreed to this child allowance at all. All in all, we Social Democrats are calling for this very much. But, Mr Heinonen, when I believe that you too have a lot of families with children as voters, you could now be so kind as to say hello to Minister Orpo for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u112	One last comment to the representatives of Heinonen and Kiviranta, and then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u113	Mr President! Congressman Magpie, I didn't say no one would get any higher taxes. Of course, taxation will increase, as indirect taxes will be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u116	My last response, Mr Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u117	Mr President! When Mrs Harakka mentioned my name here, I note that these social democrats' speeches about the solidarity tax are very mixed. The fact is, however, that this government has dropped the annual income limit from 90000 to around 74,000 euros compared to the previous governments, the governments of the last parliamentary term. If I remember this debate here a year ago, I think that Mr Heinäluoma and I think the other Social Democrats were of the opinion that this EUR 74200 is too high and that it should start at a lower level. Well, here's the facts about this. You would think that the Social Democrats would thank this government's solidarity tax line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u118	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u119	Mr President! Mr Heinonen straightened out some of the corners in his previous speech. It should be noted that the Finns have also been working on a government policy to reduce income tax during the government's term in such a way that work becomes more profitable. The line is good in principle, but, of course, now that we have fallen into the opposition, we want to focus income tax reductions more fairly than the government has proposed. Representative Vähämäki gave a good speech and an overview of the Finnish people's alternative and our protest against the government's income tax policy. I therefore support the amendments tabled by Mrs Vähämäki, in line with protest 6. We Finns believe that greater emphasis should be placed on reducing income tax for people with low and middle incomes. As we have suggested in our own alternative budget, we want to invest EUR 50 million in additional income tax reductions just now, or at least to a significant extent, for the most low-income wage earners. For example, an employee who earns about EUR 1200 per month would benefit most in our proposal in euros, and we believe that this would improve the employment opportunities of people who receive the lowest wage income and, at the same time, improve their living conditions. The costs would be collected entirely from other items, such as savings in development aid, and in return we are proposing, among other things, the creation of a new development aid model based on donations and tax reductions from them. In addition to this, we are also proposing an increase in the pension income and disability reduction. We would like to increase the share of household allowance, and we also want to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u120	Mr President! Mr Heinonen was not able to struggle with the fact that, although he listed these tax changes in the various income categories in a very general way, he did not respond to what is happening between this year and next year to a working family with low incomes and schoolchildren. It is quite certain that it is this family form that will increase its taxes. There's no way out of it. That is why I said that it is a waste of time to say that no one's work is being taxed more heavily. When we talk about reducing the tax burden on labour, once again this year at the heart of the Social Democrats' protest is a reduction in the taxation of low and medium-paid labour, so that employment is more attractive. The reduction in labour income model proposed by the Social Democrats would reduce the tax burden on wage and salary earners by around EUR 100 per year more than the government model up to EUR 5000 per month. A similar reduction would be made for pensioners up to EUR 3600. The overwhelming majority of Finnish employees and pensioners would benefit from our job income reduction model and our pension reduction model. Similarly, a change in the basic deduction of beneficiaries would reduce taxation by around EUR 50 per year if the monthly income was less than EUR 1800. President! Just a few more words on tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, even though they are not directly linked to the Income Tax Act this time, because they are accompanied by our main statements in this objection. If the government really wants to do something about tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, then it could take a number of measures, such as a proposal to Parliament to clarify Community legislation on residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u121	Mr President! It is precisely what Mr Harakka has just decided that we, as Social Democrats, have worked hard to put forward concrete, real alternatives to the government's tax policy, and, in my opinion, a certain aspect of justice is also that we should do everything we can to prevent tax evasion and to prevent aggressive tax planning and all this. I have been concerned, Mr President, that the government's line seems to be a little different at the moment, so we have many examples of how passive this desire to tackle this tax evasion and, overall, a different tax avoidance has been. But, President-in-Office, in addition to calling for a fairer tax policy, I would also like to draw attention at this stage to the important issue of employment, and it is now the case that at the same time, at the same time, with certain proposals where the government can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances or the government can afford to make reductions in pharmacies or the government can afford to reduce the taxation of holders of large forest holdings, the government's own expert assessments or assessments, for example, in the legislative evaluation council, and in part the government's own proposals it also reads out: these do not significantly increase employment. If they do not increase employment in this situation, how can it be justified in any way to spend that narrow margin of manoeuvre in the economy on this kind of policy, while, instead, facilitating the position of low- and medium-income wage earners and pensioners and the position of the unemployed, again having positive economic significance precisely as an increase in purchasing power?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u122	Mr President! Just because Mr Heinonen is not here, I would like to remind you of the principle that the previous government actually followed when it initiated the adjustment measures. When adjustment measures were required by central government finances and public finances, the principle was indeed put in place to try to make these adjustment measures only half with cuts and to try to make the other half with fair tax increases. Representative Heinonen and his mentor and disciples believe that everything should have been done in mere brutal cuts, which would have meant that billions and billions more would have been cut from education, education, research and many more. I still believe that the principle of scaling adjustment in that situation was the right one: trying to make half of the savings through cuts and then collecting half with increases in income. Well, the cyclical situation is that the economy is growing, employment is improving, and, in economic policy terms, we really need to question the massive use of tax recovery in this context, in the order of 1.5 billion. In fact, this tax recovery — even when experts say that these tax reductions, such as those related to pain, will weaken the financial situation of public finances next year — means that the government will take on more debt in order to be able to provide these large tax reliefs for high incomes. There is often a really heartbreaking voice here about how debt is really bad and how it falls into the arms of our children and grandchildren. And then, in order to provide substantial tax relief for some, this debt is allowed even higher. The principle of taxation is that the tax is collected according to the ability to pay the tax. Both the budget option of the Left Alliance and the amendments to these tax laws are aimed at implementing this principle. In fact, the progress of taxation, which implements this, that, according to the ability to pay taxes, has been seriously weakened in this recent history, and if the situation is set in such a way that what is genuinely progressive taxation, the role of equal taxation is equivalent to 90%. That is how much we have moved towards more taxation in the direction of equal taxation, indirect taxation. That is what the Left Alliance is proposing changes to. One example, proposed by experts, is the excessive tax advantage for recipients of unlisted dividends. Many experts — the Ministry of Finance’s own experts or the working groups they have set up — have suggested that this should be addressed as a matter of urgency, but nothing seems to be happening in this respect either. The Left Alliance proposes to put an end to unfair preference for dividends from non-listed companies so that the tax-free dividend threshold, the so-called normal rate of return limit, is reduced from 8% to 3%. In addition to the income tax scale, we propose tightening the scale so that the high incomes receive a proportionally higher tax revenue. After all, the basic deduction is the way in which we can help the most low-income ones, and we are also proposing to improve this reduction more than the government. In addition, we are making a couple of statements in this regard aimed at correcting tax structures, and in fact, while there is still time, I could say that the statements are as follows: 'The Parliament requires the government to bring before Parliament without delay a proposal for a substantial increase in the rate of capital taxation, with the ultimate aim of ensuring that the tax treatment of capital income is consistent with other revenues'. And as a second statement: "The Board of Directors requires that, without delay, the Government bring before Parliament a reform which repeals the right to deduct contributions from voluntary individual pension insurance and the long-term savings agreement as defined in Article 54d of the Income Tax Act." So we still have these loopholes, which are currently crumbling the tax base needed by the welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u123	Mr President! Mr Heinonen criticised the Socialist line, but now that he had the answers, he left the Chamber. He questioned the fact that expenditure adjustment or budget balance has been sought through the fact that half has been made in terms of expenditure adjustment and half has been made in the form of a tax increase when the Social Democrats were in the government. The simple reason for this is fairness and income distribution policy; there is no more bizarre background. If we make a balance with mere spending adjustment, then the most fortunate will not participate in these economic efforts. If we make decisions with tax policy alone, then we will end up in a situation where our taxes will become unsustainable. The social democrats are looking at taxation and its impact on employment from within. That is why we are directing tax reductions in the case of employees to the low-income ones. Heinonen also sought out why the child allowance was made during Antti Rinte’s temporary period. The background must have been that Rinne did not want to make a cut in child benefit, and when the government as a whole — in which the coalition was the Prime Minister’s party — did not agree that this cut would have been corrected, a substitute was sought for it, and the child allowance became a substitute, and it was targeted specifically at the low-income ones because it was targeted fairly from the point of view of income distribution to the very people most in need of it. That is why it became a fixed period of time to see how it worked. Well, now we know that it is not the best way to support families with children, but it is a better way than nothing. And it would have been entirely in the hands of the government to continue it — there would have been no obstacle to the extension of that fixed-term law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u124	Mr President! I will continue with this excellent speech by Mr Filatov. Indeed, there has been a lot of discussion here today about reducing income tax, but, as has now been heard from many quarters and from Mr Filatov's mouth, the taxation of certain families with children will unfortunately increase significantly next year as the child reduction disappears. Child-reduction has been important, up to EUR 400, for many families struggling with financial difficulties and, as has been said, even this much talked about, a good reduction in early childhood education fees in itself will not help those families with only school-age children. This is one of the reasons why we Finns have proposed to continue to deduct children. That would have been very possible, the government would have had all the means available to it, but they have not intervened in their proposal. All in all, it is important. Our birth rate in Finland is now at a very low level, in fact at its lowest for a century and a half, and so ways of improving it and the position of families with children should be found. Unfortunately, the Chamber is very empty when this important issue, and taxation in general, is being discussed. Mr Heinonen, who is critical of child reduction, has indeed left the scene, but my esteemed tax expert, Mr Kiviranta, still seems to be defending the government's proposal with great enthusiasm, and so on. I would like to ask Mrs Kiviranta what she thinks about the impact of this government income tax proposal and the accompanying removal of the family allowance on the financial situation of families with children, particularly in families whose children are already school-age.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u125	Mr President! It was indeed interesting to hear Mr Filatov's report on the internal discussions within the governments of the last period and perhaps even on minor conflicts, but I did not therefore ask for the floor. I would like to say to Mr Savilo that I have already said here that this proposal on income tax is quite balanced. This takes account of different income levels in an appropriate way. This will include scale relief, a full inflation check and an actual tax reduction. This increases the reduction in earnings. As I recall, it has already been increased twice in the Sipilä government before this, and the basic deduction will be increased again, which is a very good consideration of these different categories of income and income levels. As a result, families with children will also be taken into account in addition to these reductions in early childhood education fees. But then I could tell you that I always write at that turn of the year — long time, many years I have written — in a magazine looking at changes in the turn of the year. During the last government, during the last parliamentary term, it was always gloomy to write when the economy did not grow, sometimes even contracted, employment weakened, central government debt grew hilariously, and there was no hope of a balance in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u126	That is a good point, Mr President. It is in sight and remains to be carried out by the next government. As a father of three schoolchildren, I must very strongly express the concern here that, when we talk about equal opportunities for children and the role of young people in this government and society in general, and when, for example, the 100th Year of Independence Fund is specifically aimed at children and young people, as it is right to do, and at the same time we still have the concern of good Pisa studies that the learning gap between boys and girls, for example, is large, then we have to wonder why the taxation of low-paid school families here has been sought to tighten by giving up the child reduction when everyone knows that it costs money to do so. Above all, this affects the underprivileged parents of teenagers. When some children can afford to engage and others can't, everyone knows that exclusion is a fact. This is a serious matter, and now it would have been nice if this budget and the income tax scale had taken into account the care of the low-paid parents of schoolchildren rather than the speeches. I would also like to say a few more words about general economic policy and I will come to the floor for that. [ The speaker moves to the podium] The second part of this speech is actually painting with a very large brush. This idea arises when you listen first and foremost to the views of the current government parties on what has been the cyclical situation, the economic situation, the role of taxation in the success of societies. When it is often claimed in this Chamber that the difficulties of the previous regime were caused by excessive taxation, there is often a feeling of despair: have these representatives not heard of the recession that has hit Europe as a whole, which has only slowly subsided after ten years? Europe is on the increase, and Finland is among the last to be involved. So how's this logic going? I often listen to this speech that by taxation or, in fact, by the actions of the national governments of Finland, Finland has managed to make things worse for the whole of Europe, and Finland, as a particularly export-dependent country, has gone even worse than any other country. What's the logic? Is it that the sun rises when the cock crows, or perhaps the other way around? This is particularly sad to hear when you think about what these right-wing parties have done in power in Europe during this recession: they have deepened it. And in what ways did they deepen it? In such a way that they did not have any idea of a cyclical policy — to revive and tighten up in times of recession. A very simple Keynesian basic rule. But when the right-wing parties in Europe were in power, they deepened the recession that was caused by the banking crisis in any case and caused the countries to be forced to take on more debt. When the recession is tightened up, a situation arises where drastic cuts in the public sector lead to an increase in unemployment, a sharp increase in unemployment and social spending and a social disaster in some European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u127	Mr President! Contrary to Mr Kiviranta's suspicion here, we do not feel despair at all that the economy is now growing. On the contrary, we would like to state, even on the basis of what has just been said, that it is about time. Somehow I just feel like — it was quite a descriptive figure of this figure of speech brought by the Magpie — that it is obviously so real that now this government thinks that the sun will rise when the rooster crows. This seems to be the way it is, but on the contrary, it has been the problem of these kind of value choices and economic policy choices that are inappropriate for a particular cyclical situation throughout this entire government term. And I fear, Mr President, that its fruit will also be the next government, and we all know how difficult it is sometimes to make up for these things. At the end of the day, however, I would like to say, Mr President, that I appreciate the fact that Mr Kiviranta is here because he now seems to be the only representative of the government party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u131	Mr President! I only asked to speak in order to say to the Minutes that we also have another representative of the central government party, Mr Pylväs, in the company of Mr Kiviranta. However, I would like to thank Mr Kiviranna very much for his hard and brave presence here, often in the presence of the opposition, when these matters are discussed. On the other hand, one must be surprised that the Finance Minister's party generally shines, as is the case today, with its total absence from these debates. And if we were to count off the representatives of Zyskowicz and Heinonen, then we could say that the participation rate is almost zero. And I still have to say about this strange government party — which is difficult now, then... Well, it is now agreed that it is such a tiny splint in the coat of a modern government — these blue ones, who always and everywhere praise this government policy as the only possible and great and wise, that there is very little of them in this Chamber to defend their own and the government's line. In this respect, it is sad to say that the same people who, before the elections, stimulated the people with the right work are quite invisible here in the Chamber of Parliament, here in their actual site and actually seem rather reluctant to participate in any debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u132	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u133	Mr President! This change to the transfer tax Act means that agriculture can move into the form of a limited liability company from the beginning of next year on an equal footing with other family companies, when the change in the form of a company no longer requires the payment of a 4% transfer tax on the transfer of immovable property to a limited company. This means that the transition to a form of limited liability company is now possible in such a way that it is a reasonable continuation of business in another form of enterprise, and I believe that this abolition of the transfer tax will increase the integration of agriculture from the beginning of next year. After all, these implementations have now been postponed because of that government programme entry. After all, there are currently very few farms in Finland in the form of share companies, about 700, and in total there are still nearly 50,000 farms, so this does not apply to a large number of farms. But it is this 20% corporation tax rate that must be of interest to many indebted holdings that have made significant investments, and I believe that this corporation tax rate is one of the reasons for the limited liability company and it is quite central to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u134	Mr President! The development and continuity of business generally requires the company to be able to develop its activities in a rational manner without various administrative obstacles. This government proposal, as the report of the Committee on Finance also proves, will remove these obstacles, and it will be possible to develop business in a reasonable way in a very long-term way. What is also essential in this proposal is that very strict provisions can make this change, and that is to say, as mentioned above, this applies to the very few groups that go into this. Of course, most of these are certainly farms, but also other companies with significant assets, assets subject to a transfer tax. Furthermore, I think it is a good point that the committee has taken a position that the needs of this overall taxation need to be looked at more broadly, and that has also been the point made in this committee's report, which I agree with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u135	Mr President! There is no comment on this proposal itself, provided, of course, that it can be ascertained, as the committee's tax section was assured, that this transfer of assets is essentially linked to the same activity for the same persons. There is, of course, no reason to make the agricultural sector in difficulty even more difficult. I would just like to point out that the debate that took place here a year ago on the so-called'reduction of entrepreneurs', in other words the reduction in pharmacists, was that many people said that it was a problem that so many Finnish companies were limited companies, unlike experts who heard in the committee that it was quite natural for different types of business to have different types of associations, sometimes business names, sometimes company names, sometimes company companies, open companies and then limited companies. Well, apparently we have all come to the conclusion that this is not a problem at all, but that there are limited companies in Finland is a very welcome and excellent feature. In this respect, the committee and, apparently, Parliament are also at the disposal of the citizens insofar as we are trying to help them with acceptable tax planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u136	Mr President! For the sake of certainty, I say that Article 24 of the Income Tax Act requires assets and liabilities to be transferred as such to the limited liability company, i.e. accounting continuity. Nor may ownership change in the context of this limited liability company. At least I am not the kind of MP who would have considered a limited liability company in any way a bad form of business, quite the contrary. On the other hand, of course, I have also defended entrepreneurship reduction, which affects one half of the entrepreneurial community, but about half of the members of Finnish Entrepreneurs are limited companies and about half are engaged in non-sovereign company activities. In those past years, when Finland had a limit tax rate of up to 70 per cent on earned income, one of my accountant friends felt that it was not really possible to do business in a form other than a limited company. True, at that time limited companies were taxed much more heavily than they are today.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u137	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u138	Mr President! This is one of the legal packages that the government has seen as the cornerstone of its employment policy — perhaps not as a cornerstone but as a pearl of the events in the labour force, but has not dared to write about the impact on employment; it has been estimated that they may exist. Or it may be that there are not too many of them if you read that government proposal. These performances are all right in themselves, except for one. In other words, we already have a mobility allowance for the unemployed, which will enable you to find work further away from your place of residence, so you can get support for this for a while. There's been very little use of this. Surely one reason is that the unemployed have not necessarily known that it exists, on the one hand, that the aid is rather small, and, on the other hand, that, if you are employed for a long period of unemployment, you are often employed in low-paid employment and it is difficult to go a very long way to work. Well, it is now suggested that this would also be possible in part-time work. It is all right in itself, but the problem is that it is even more difficult to accept low-paid part-time work from a long distance and an expensive distance, so it is to be assumed that this use will not increase much. Although the basic idea is good, its effectiveness, because the support is small, is weak. The second proposal is that unemployment benefit could make it easier to start a business. This has not dared to assess the impact on employment. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities went through this and considered it to be a good proposal in itself, but when we already have the start-up money, the relationship between them appeared a little strange. The good thing about this proposal is that this will certainly reduce the burden on the labour administration to find out whether an entrepreneur is employed full-time or part-time or how, but that four months can automatically be created in peace with unemployment security and act as an entrepreneur. But it could have been done with the start-up money. Although it has been a decision-making process, the TE administration has decided whether or not to receive the start-up grant. Well, the ratio between this free and start-up allowance is such that four months will receive unemployment benefit, but if business becomes income, that benefit will be reconciled, meaning that corporate income will cut that unemployment benefit. This is not the case with start-up money; the start-up money has been allowed to keep the whole thing. In this case, the unemployed will certainly have to wonder which is more advantageous for him. It is easier to take this four months, but the start-up money, especially for a low-income person, may bring more benefit to himself. Well, can you get a start-up grant after using this benefit? The answers to that were quite confusing in the committee when this was discussed, and I hope that there will be a clear line. The starting point was that if you are able to prove that you are a part-time entrepreneur during an entrepreneurial period, then it would be as if you were assessing whether that business activity is full-time or part-time. Well, this is a rather strange procedure when those who would not have used this benefit would be assessed from the point of view of the TE administration. Such free benefits are often rather confusing, although they in themselves sound smart and good. Despite these problems, the proposal must be supported, and it is always worth trying out such red tape-reducing models, but this certainly leaves the start-up money behind, at least in the early stages of unemployment, if businesses are to be set up. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities suggested that it would have been possible to get into this arrangement if the company had already started at the time when the notice period was still in place, but the Committee on Social Affairs and Health said that it would probably increase the cost of the state and the cashiers and therefore did not go along with it. Well, this arrangement may lead to a company being set up a little later than it could have been set up, but I think that the delays from this point of view are small and this does not cause much harm from that point of view. The Government has promised the Parliament a proposal which would make it easier for the unemployed to study with unemployment benefit. That presentation has not yet come, but this package contains articles relating in particular to the evaluation of the main activity of vocational studies. In fact, the government's proposal would have made it more difficult to study with unemployment benefit. It is clear in itself that vocational studies are always counted as full-time in practice, unless you can take advantage of the earlier studies you have completed in some place, and that does not give rise to these clearing obligations, but the problem is that you will never be able to study with unemployment benefit either. Fortunately, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health corrected the small mistake that was here because the law was built in such a way as to make changes to the Student Support Act, but there have been no changes to the Student Support Act which had been promised in the preparation of this law, so this correction has been made here. I believe that we should follow this gap between studies and vocational studies with unemployment benefit, because there is a risk that we will continue to have people who do not receive unemployment benefit and also do not receive student aid because their studies are so limited. This is an untenable situation. I hope that, if they do, they will be corrected immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u139	Mr President! The representative, Mr Filatov, described in detail and expertly everything that this proposal contains. Surely it was this last observation that was important to consider that there would then be no such situations that neither one would get. These are, of course, disproportionate. Personally, when I am not present in either committee, it is impossible for me to understand all the details, but the principles, yes, and that is an important observation. But I also drew attention to what Mr Filatov said at the outset, that this is one of those proposals whose impact on employment may not be so much assessed by the government itself. I am sure, on the whole, referring to the previous debate on taxation, I think it would be very important for the government in all its policies to maximise the impact on employment, because I believe that a few years of passivity in this regard too has put us in a situation where, perhaps a little slower for us then, the economy will rise more slowly than elsewhere, and I am sure that we will always have to move forward in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u140	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u141	Mr President! This presentation of national student and degree registers is a very useful bill. In the future, the national repository of basic education, upper secondary school education and vocational education and training provided for in this new law will store, among other things, information on studies, performances and qualifications that a person may need when applying for education or for the different needs of working life. Information on the organisation of education, training and funding will also be stored in this new data reserve. Personal data may also be disclosed from the student selection register defined in the bill to other education providers, ministries, the Social Insurance Institution and some other parties as defined in the Act. The draft law will make a major contribution to the electronic storage and transfer of information related to education and learning, and will also promote access to education, the identification and recognition of lessons learned in the past and lifelong learning. These are very good objectives. However, this initial government proposal did not limit the disclosure of sensitive personal information to the necessary situations, as the Constitutional Committee rightly pointed out in its own opinion. On the basis of this opinion, and following consultations with the Committee on Education and Constitutional Affairs, the committee decided to amend the section so that sensitive personal data to be disclosed must be necessary for the recipient of the information, not only necessary. This change may seem somewhat cosmetic, but these statements made in the expert consultation, and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also, made it very clear that the amendment was absolutely necessary for the students' information and legal security to be achieved. In its current form, the draft law must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u142	Mr President! Hereinafter, the representative: Savio well reviewed this presentation of the National Study and Qualification Register. This is a sensible project specifically to facilitate access to information, search and then transfer of information. However, as studies today are increasingly such lifelong learning that there is no clear beginning and perhaps the end point for those studies, it is good that we have such a consolidated register, a register of studies and qualifications. Personally, I would like this to be taken... The representative, Mr Savio, pointed out these to which this information can be disclosed, and it is quite limited here. In time, I myself have put forward a proposal for a register of qualified teachers, for example, that we have a register, from which children's parents or students, for example, could check whether their teacher is qualified for this task, what he is doing — it often does not appear from titles when they are in schools or in educational institutions. And then perhaps this type of register could in future move in the direction that it would also be a certain type of register of qualifications, which could be ensured, for example, when applying for employment, whether the person concerned is qualified for this task and whether he has sufficient studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-21-ps-121.u143	The 17th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 22 November 2017. The Council of Presidents proposes that the single reading of the draft amending budget should follow the following procedure: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance shall submit his amendment to the central office by 10 p.m. on Wednesday 22 November 2017 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments have been proposed to the add-on budget, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
