ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to the question of the current state of rail transport and the future of Mr Wallin and others. Following the Government's response and the intervention by Mr Wallin, the debate on the interim issue will take place at a rapid pace, with group speeches of no more than 5 minutes. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, I will give you the one-minute or two-minute response that I am considering.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u2	Mr President! Rail transport is a key part of both Finnish everyday life and the competitiveness of our country. Its development is also necessary to achieve ambitious emission reduction targets. Transport emissions must be halved from 2005 levels by 2030. To achieve this, we need a wide range of means. The Government is now looking for solutions to increase rail traffic and make it a genuine alternative to more and more Finns. The aim of the reform is to increase and diversify the supply of rail transport services. The aim of opening up competition is to provide services more efficiently and to respond better to the needs of different customer groups. The growth in transport service provision and competition between the provider and the modes of transport will benefit passengers. Service providers compete for their customers with ticket prices and different services. There will be more supply and choice for people. There will be more value for public support. The 4th EU railway package imposes certain obligations that have been taken into account here. In addition to Finland, there is only one operator in rail passenger transport in Luxembourg and Ireland. It has been decided to open competition because it is expected to bring better services to train passengers and benefit society as a whole. The system of exclusive rights and direct procurement has been assessed as ineffective. When tendering services, the use of tax money is more transparent. Finland wants to make progress in opening up competition, as we cannot afford to wait until the end of the 2020s for reforms to be implemented. Our emission reduction targets are ambitious and 2030 is coming up fast. Mr President! It is positive that the opposition is also concerned about the future of the rail system and the increased use of rail transport. This common vision, hopefully, will also allow for a constructive debate today without intimidation. As stated in the intermediate question, our current rail services have not been sufficiently cost-effective and have not fully met people's needs. It is only in recent years that the competition created by bus and air transport, as well as the competition for local rail services in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, have led to VR’s real development of services, pricing and cost-effectiveness. As a result, for example, the consumer prices of train tickets have fallen by more than 10% on average over the last year. Competition creates an incentive for companies to develop their operations. When companies compete for passengers, people are given the opportunity to choose between different options. The user of the services is better able to tell the authorities what kind of services they need. For example, bus and coach transport, previously considered to be the sunset sector, has become a new boom with the opening up of competition. In the intermediate question, it has been assumed that in the future competition would be mainly by reducing staff and salaries. This is an unjustified concern. In countries where passenger rail transport has been opened up to competition, there has been a significant increase in transport demand and supply. This has also increased the need for skilled workers, and competition has also been reflected in higher wages. The Government has stated that employees in Finland will be transferred from VR to state-owned companies based on the principle of transfer of business, i.e. as old employees. We attach great importance to this and we are committed to the close involvement of human organisations in the preparation of the reform. It is clear that VR personnel have unique expertise, which will continue to be needed on the Finnish railways. We learn from the good and bad experiences of other countries. However, the international experience of opening up competition in passenger train transport clearly shows the most important thing: it is the passengers who benefit from opening up competition. The benefits of better services and lower prices are reflected in the increased popularity of train travel. Significant savings can also be achieved in public procurement. Surveys by the European Commission and the OECD have found that competitive tendering has achieved savings of between 20% and 30% compared to direct procurement. Even in the early 1990s, Finnish rail transport was in a very similar situation with Sweden and Great Britain, for example. At the time, in all three countries, the state-owned train operator was exclusively responsible for transport and the share of rail transport in transport modes was around 5%. Since then, Sweden and the United Kingdom have opened passenger rail transport to competition throughout the country and the share of rail transport has been reduced to 9% in the same period. In Finland, the use of the train has stagnated to the level of 90 C.E. It is clear, however, that Finland will not rise to the Swedish and British levels simply by opening up competition. We must continue to invest in the development of the network, and public support is needed to secure a comprehensive supply of rail transport across the country. However, it should be borne in mind that, as the system becomes more efficient and the popularity of rail transport increases, more value can be obtained for the investments made. Opening up competition will ensure that we will continue to invest in our network and in our train connections. Mr President! The intermediate issue claims that the chosen tendering model does not create competition but only creates regional monopolies in place of the current national monopoly. At this point, it is necessary to correct misconceptions. The Government has decided that competition will be opened on the basis of concessions based on regions and service packages. The agreements define more precisely the required service level and incentives for the development of operations. Concessions do not guarantee operators exclusive rights to competitive areas. Several companies can operate on the same line in the chosen model. So the opposition's concern is pointless. In the model chosen by the Government, competition between train operators would arise both in the tendering phase and in the actual operation. In addition, there is concern that there is no room for more traffic on the Finnish network. That is not really the case. The utilisation rate of our rail network is one of the lowest in Europe and transport could be significantly increased on almost the whole network. VR has significantly reduced traffic in several railway sections in recent years. It is true that the railway capacity in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is becoming fully operational, especially during peak periods. However, it should be borne in mind that regional transport also has great potential in regions outside the capital region. In Sweden, for example, commuter trains are carried out in connection with cities of up to a few ten thousand inhabitants. In Finland, there is virtually no such traffic. In the future, regions and large cities could also develop regional transport from their own perspective. We must continue to ensure that rail services are available throughout Finland and for all passenger groups. The chosen tendering model will better ensure that operators also provide services of less commercial interest. In the future, the national level of service and the interoperability of ticket systems will be better ensured. Under the current system, it has not been possible to adequately address flag reforms, cutbacks in shift supply, shutdowns or stoppages. VR makes these decisions independently on business grounds. Mr President! VR’s future and changes in the company’s value have also raised questions. In the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, the Government has explicitly stated that the role and competitiveness of VR Group Ltd as a state-owned railway company will be safeguarded. The company participates in future competitions from the same line as other potential operators. The government has a genuine desire to increase competition in rail transport and not to open up the market seemingly. For example, the availability of equipment could become an insurmountable barrier to entry into the market due to a different track gauge from other European countries in Finland. Ensuring fair access to equipment and support services is essential. Indeed, the model chosen by the Government is largely in line with where HSL ended up in 2014 when it decided to compete for commuter trains. In its interim question, the opposition falsely refers to the privatisation of a natural monopoly. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, there has been no privatisation or privatisation under this regime. All three companies to be set up are state-owned special purpose companies. The assets transferred to them from VR will remain state-owned. It is a transfer of assets from a state-owned company to a special state-owned company. Nor is it a natural monopoly. Several train operators can operate on the same line at the same time, just as several bus companies can operate on the road. This is already the case in other countries. In the concession model chosen by the Government, operators are not becoming exclusive to the line section. The equipment to be transferred to the vehicle company will be leased on equal and equal terms to potential operators. It is not to be made available free of charge to foreign companies. Our shared assets will be rented to operators who will be able to produce the highest added value for Finns. Competition will enable us to ensure that our common resources are most effective in their use. The train operator is obliged to rent the equipment used primarily from the vehicle company. As an owner, the State also has social objectives and, for all state companies, the primary objective is not to maximise dividend income. To this end, there are special task companies with important tasks for society. In these companies, the objectives of state ownership policy are based on the best possible social and economic results. Opening up rail passenger transport to competition is an excellent example of a situation where the state can use its ownership to reform Finland. In the companies now being set up, the State has an interest in ensuring a functioning market. The realisation of social interests in important basic functions of society is ensured by the most appropriate means for each sector. These may include, for example, regulation, public procurement and state-owned companies. Mr President! The opening-up of competition studies has been the subject of much discussion recently. The opening-up of competition has been carefully prepared and several studies have been carried out in addition to the preparation of civil servants. A wide range of studies have been carried out in order to ensure that competition is opened with the model that has just been presented. The reports could not be published in the spring due to the incompleteness of the matter. Following the publication of the case, all the studies carried out were made public without delay within the limits of the Publicity Act. The studies have examined, inter alia, the impact of the opening-up of competition on service levels, ticket prices, adequacy of railway capacity and equipment, safety, tax revenues and owner value. Individual studies have been limited in scope and contain different assumptions. Therefore, one study cannot give an overall picture of the project or its impact. It is true that the studies carried out have identified some additional costs and associated risks resulting from the opening-up of competition. At the same time, a number of benefits have been identified, particularly in the long term. It is wrong to talk about the sharing of existing markets. In the light of the studies that have been carried out and of international experience, it is unquestionably clear that, with the opening up of competition, more and more people are choosing a train as their way of travel. Although competitive tendering will increase administrative work in particular in the early stages, the benefits will be achieved as competition drives companies to develop their services and production methods. The monopoly company does not have a similar incentive for this, and this has been demonstrated in concrete terms in the Finnish train traffic. The studies and their conclusions should be considered as a whole. It is the responsibility of the Government to assess the different implementation options and their social impact. On the basis of these, the best possible solution for Finland will be developed. This is exactly what the government did when it decided in the Committee on Economic Policy to open up competition and enter into company arrangements. In making a decision, the government had all the necessary information at its disposal. We are in the midst of a huge change in which digitalisation and climate change shape our operating environment in an unprecedented way. Artificial intelligence, automation, sharing and data economy, block chains and virtual reality will rapidly challenge and challenge existing business models and value chains. Mobility becomes a service and is automated. If Finland wishes, it will have the opportunity to be the first country in the world where the reform of the transport sector takes place as a whole covering all modes of transport. The railways are at the heart of our transport system. It is now time to ensure that rail transport is able to take part in this development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u3	Mr President! We are here today to address the issue of the future of rail transport, which has been signed by the opposition as a whole. The opposition's concerns about the competitive model adopted by the Government in the Economic Policy Group are common and serious. The model would divide Finland into regions for rail passenger transport and compete with various operators from local traffic in Southern Finland. At the same time, VR’s equipment, maintenance and real estate would be divided into different companies, including already competitive freight transport. The Government believes that this will bring new players to the market, thereby increasing train shifts and providing better service to citizens. From the opposition, it will be difficult to see how the government intends to succeed in its objectives if new operators do not invest in new equipment to increase train services. Another bottleneck is our network, which is already in full use for the main lines and for which substantial investments are needed. Moreover, the possibility of free competition to choose the best option for passengers will not be allowed when there is still a single operator monopoly in the new, competitive areas. It is more likely that the government has decided to auction the business of the state company. [Department :Noole! ] Mr President! The preparation of the government for tendering cannot be seen as balanced when we read about the reports hidden in the press. The Government has appealed to several foreign studies and says that it has estimated that opening up competition will bring more benefits to society than society loses. However, the two studies that have examined the government model specifically in Finnish transport — Boston Consulting Group and Spring Advisor — note the negative effects of the government model. The Ramboll study, on which the Government relies, has not examined the government model, but is a theoretical traffic simulator, which takes the benefits of competitive tendering when given. Another cause for concern is that Eero Hemivaara, Head of the Corporate Steering Department, should be excluded from further preparation. Helovaara criticizes the functionality of the chosen model and says in Kauppalehti on 21 September that he believes that "the reason will win if it is found that some of the policies are not wise". The model presented by the government requires further clarification. Due to the contradictions and shortcomings of the reports, it is dangerous that the Government, under the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, has drawn conclusions that are appropriate to its own needs. With the wrong choice, we can do billion-dollar damage to Finnish society, the promotion of electronic transport and the state company as part of our national property.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u6	Let's start the group talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u7	Madam President! Every one of us has received feedback from cranky people on the train. Trains are late, buying tickets has been made difficult, train stations have been closed, and calling VR's customer service is just a charge for listening to queue music. I'm sure VR employees are doing their best, but we need to change this. We in the center want to serve people. We want more people to be able to travel by train in the future. It is time to make train operators finally compete for customers with better services and prices. Mr President! The transport and communication policy pursued during this parliamentary term has been strongly forward looking and creating opportunities. You, the roads and the bridges have been refurbished in an unprecedented way. Mobility and transport services are in a big transition. The aim of the city centre is to meet the needs of people, businesses, foreign trade, Finnish regions and tourism. For us downtown people, you can easily buy a ticket on a train, on buses, on a plane and on a ship in the near future. In addition, protecting the climate actually requires us to reform public transport more and more attractively. Transport emissions must also be reduced. This is where the government has wrapped the sleeves, and it's a good thing. Although the number of passengers travelling by train has recently increased, they were still 2 million fewer in 2016 than in 2008. The share of rail transport in all traffic has remained at only 5%. The Central Parliamentary Group fully supports the opening up of competition for passenger train services. Clear steps have been taken to open up competition: 1) Establishment of state-owned rolling stock, maintenance and real estate companies. 2) The details of the opening of the competition are being prepared in working groups, to which representatives of VR staff have also been invited. 3) The reform will be carried out in a controlled and gradual manner during the next three parliamentary term, starting with rail traffic in Southern Finland. In August, each parliamentary group was still in favour of opening up the competition. There was only a difference of opinion about the vehicle company to be set up, whether it was necessary. Yes, we do. That's what it says in every expert report. On the intermediate issue, the opposition wants to increase rail transport, good services and save the climate, just as the government does. But you don't have a single solution, not a single one. Opposition, give me your options. [ Hustles from the left] Instead, you scare people by spreading false claims. The government is not making the same mistake you, the signatories to the interim question, made during the last parliamentary term when you sold and privatised the Finnish electricity grids. Everyone feels it now in their own wallet. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u8	Madam President! I would like to thank the opposition for raising an important issue in the parliamentary debate. The decision to organise VR's operations is in the hands of the government in principle, but on this issue the opposition also offers an opportunity to apply for Parliament's backrest. With the liberalisation of competition for passenger train services, the Government aims to provide better, more diverse and cheaper mobility services to Finns. As we know, healthy and effective competition will tighten the parties in the market to perform better. The Parliament Group of the Coalition Party wants to free up the competition for rail transport in order to give Finns cheaper train tickets and better service. We want more and more people to be able to choose an environmentally friendly train, for example, for commuting. We want every Finn to be able to move on the tracks more cheaply and more easily. Mr President! Opening up competition in passenger transport by rail is not the result of hasty preparation, but rather a model drawn up on the basis of long-term research, which enables Finland to increase competition on the railways in the circumstances. It is true that it is not simple to open up competition in passenger trains. Our track level is different from that of other European countries, which requires differentiated equipment and reduces the attractiveness of the emerging rail transport market. The acquisition of train equipment itself is already a major capital injection and can pose a challenge to competition. This threshold for entering the sector is being reduced by the separation of VR’s existing fleet into a separate vehicle company. The model has been found to work in many countries. The future vehicle company will lease its fleet under the same conditions to the operators involved in the rail competition. Another special feature of Finland is monorailness for most of the rail network. Railway capacity creates certain restrictions on competition and the number of trains, but efficient planning of the current rail network will allow more traffic to be carried. Of course, it is clear that our rail network requires more investment. This government has already decided to invest in developing the rail connection between Luumäki and Imatra, which facilitates the export and movement of all Eastern Finland. In addition, we have granted planning money to design a high-speed rail connection between Helsinki and Turku. More investment is needed in the rail network, whether passenger transport operates in a monopoly or as a competitive market. With regard to the ownership of the rail network, the reform does not envisage any changes. The network will therefore continue to be fully state-owned because it is in practice a natural monopoly. Mr President! The opening up of rail passenger transport to competition has been thoroughly investigated. There are differences in the studies in relation to the point of view they were made from. However, a large part of the conclusions of the studies will end with a parallel analysis. All studies thought that the service level would improve and some of the shifts would also increase. No assessor believes that the service level will be reduced. There are different estimates of price changes, but the majority of consultants estimate a decrease in prices. This has been the case in international examples of countries that have opened up competition. On the other hand, price volatility is also expected to increase, i.e. demand and supply will be better taken into account. The same thing already works on buses and flights. On the basis of these studies, it can be concluded that the quality of services will in any case remain unchanged or increase. The fall in ticket prices is also likely. For the assembly, these two criteria are important in this reform and it is good to move on from them. Mr President! It is understandable that opening up competition is evoking ideological feelings in some parties. I would like to ask you a few very sincere questions. I wonder why RKP and KD are involved in the issue. Traditionally, these bourgeois parties have been in favour of a market economy and free choice, more competition, but the exception does surprise me. [Heckling] The second question goes to the Greens. Why are you opposed to measures that have been promoted elsewhere in Europe and which can demonstrably contribute to the growth of environmentally friendly rail transport? [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Efficient rail transport is a key driver of growth and employment. For many, the services it provides are very important for the smooth running of everyday life today and in the future. That is basically what today's debate is all about. We have reached a point where action is needed to enable the Finnish railway system to continue serving Finns. The government's cuts in purchasing service traffic brought uncertainty to many regions about the continuation of rail links. Competition with bus companies in pricing and speed of connections has been good for VR’s development. At the same time, the government's decisions on purchasing and compulsory transport have been delayed for nearly two years. Despite this development, there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with rail transport among customers at the moment. The government’s decision to end the necessary commuter trains, including Karjaa, has even provoked a popular movement. For commuting on the main track, schedule changes where express trains pass cities unstoppable, or, for example, the digitisation of the local train ticket system is a failure in many passenger experience, and this also has a role to play by the owner. Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group is not open to how the government's model will increase the number of train traffic, the price of tickets for passengers will fall and the cost of public purchasing will fall if VR is broken to pieces. This would increase governance and, in practice, competitive current national business at regional level, while maintaining the obligations of current loss-making traffic for new operators. The public monopoly would become private regional monopolies, leaving the positive effects of genuine competition unattainable. No customer's freedom of choice would improve even a little bit. The new operators would operate on the existing fleet and on the same, mainly single-track network, which has already been congested in many places and has been affected by delays due to the repair debt. The only factor in the competition seems to remain the staff unless the aim is to redistribute VR's operating profit. Mr President! Minister Berner, you have defended criticism in the model chosen by the government by referring to international experience. You have stressed that opening up to competition has brought more supply and cheaper prices. This is probably true, but the countries to which you refer are more densely populated than Finland and there is more capacity both on the network and on the fleet. However, you want to assure us that Finland will be hit by all the benefits of competitive tendering and not by any disadvantages, even though the hidden explanations tell us the opposite of the model you have just chosen. When you are criticized for not having taken all the explanations into account, you will tell us — I quote, the quote begins — that you have gone through the main values on which you wish to proceed and that you have also produced a synthesis of them. That's the end of the quote. Madam Minister, I believe that you have steered the evaluation of the reports in the direction you wish to politically. Your model is guided by an ideology that ignores the facts of the studies that (1) there will be no new competition for the consumer; (2) the increase in costs will result in higher ticket prices; (3) the State will lose money; (4) your model will not solve the problems of rail transport today. Last week, in the context of the budgetary referral debate, you stated that the Prime Minister's Office has the right to appoint a person of its choice as a member of the Working Party on Train Competition. Yes, it is, but it does seem strange if the senior official in his field who criticised the reform is to be replaced by your party partner, Minister Lintilä, in the preparatory working group. Madam President! Competition is already a fact on the railways, it is clear, and the SDP does not deny it. However, the SDP is opposed to a bad ownership policy whereby the state company is broken down and the business is auctioned. If the Board of Directors considers that VR’s business is done better by someone else, then the Sipilä Government also has a place to look in the mirror — as the owner. The SDP supports the gradual and careful opening-up of competition in passenger transport. It would make sense now to build on the experience of HSL's urban transport and to make use of it would make sense to move forward, in a controlled and prudent manner. That is why the Socialist Group supports the motion of censure tabled by Mr Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u10	Mr President! First of all, we have to say that this is a very long-standing HSL model. Mr President! The Government aims to create a pioneer in the transport sector in Finland. Currently, Finnish passenger and freight traffic is competitive on land, sea and air. Improving the customer orientation of competitiveness requires opening up competition also in rail passenger transport. Freight transport on the railways has been competitive since 2017, but competition has been slowed down by poor availability of equipment. The opening up of rail transport is also required by the EU's fourth railway package. So it's coming anyway. Finland is one of the most recent countries in the EU where rail passenger transport continues to be a monopoly. The opening-up of competition aims to achieve real benefits. International experience shows that opening up competition is beneficial. In Sweden, for example, competitive tendering has reduced the need for government support for rail transport. In Great Britain, the popularity of train travel has increased since the competitive tendering of transport. Thus, based on international experience, it can be assumed that the popularity of train travel will increase, the need for public support will fall and ticket prices will fall. The opening up of competition in passenger rail transport will also enable regions, large cities and urban areas to organise regional or local rail transport. I'm sure a lot of people are happy about this. Mr President! The opening-up of the competition is based on careful preparation. The model proposed by the Government is based on an overall assessment of the impact of the opening-up of competition. The aim of extensive preparation has been to ensure that competitive rail transport is based on reliable information and that the wide-ranging impacts of the project are taken into account in decision-making. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has commissioned a report by Rambolli on the model for opening up the competition. This is the only study carried out to assess the benefits and disadvantages of opening up competition as a whole. On the basis of the study, the opening-up of competition is clearly to be welcomed. A lot of attention has been paid to the surveys commissioned by the Government’s Ownership Steering Unit, which mainly evaluates the opening of competition from VR’s perspective. These studies do not assess the chosen competitive model from a social point of view. The examination of individual studies cannot therefore give an overall picture of the project or its impact. At this point it is necessary to say that this interim issue seems to be based on considering the situation in VR's interest when at least we blues look at how Finns get better service. [Heckling] Mr President! The opening-up of competition requires the creation of fair and competitive conditions on the rail market. In order to ensure market access, three separate state-owned companies will be separated from VR Group Ltd: a vehicle company, a maintenance company and a real estate company. It's a state-owned company. I would stress that this is not about privatisation. VR’s personnel will be transferred as old employees to new state-owned companies. The status of staff at the moment of transition has been secured. Opening up competition is a major but necessary change. The growth in demand for rail transport is expected to lead to an increase in employment in the sector. State ownership steering does not seek to maximise monopoly profits, but aims to achieve the best overall benefits for society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u11	Mr President! The smooth operation and reliability of transport are a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of our society as a whole. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the condition of our transport infrastructure and the operation of reliable telecommunications connections and rail transport, including good passenger train traffic, are matters for which the government must take care. In our country, long distances and low population density, a well-functioning transport network is a fundamental prerequisite for the equal movement of citizens. We also want to improve the operating conditions of the basic industry in our country. The Finns have always acted for Finnish work and enterprise. However, decades of neglect will not be remedied in one parliamentary term or perhaps in two, so carelessly the governments in power have carried out their transport policy duties. True Finns will continue to work consistently in their own policies in such a way that the movement of citizens is safe and affordable. We regret that the ideology and belief of the current government are market economy and the liberalisation of competition by any means possible, even by privatising or re-incorporating the common property acquired with taxpayers' money for the benefit or pocket of foreign predators. Mr President! In general, the taxes and charges imposed by the current government on transport policy have been disproportionate to people who are forced to move and, in particular, to drive a lot because of their work or their place of residence. The Finnish Parliament Group also wants to keep the cost of driving in such a way that living in the whole country, including rural areas, is possible. This vital need is now being threatened by excessive transport emission requirements, which are unrealistic to respond to. The Government has made a controversial opening to competition in passenger rail transport. This was justified by the government by the demand of the European Union, but much more than the EU actually demands. In the Government model, VR’s equipment, maintenance and real estate would in future be separated from its own companies, which would be used by willing operators to create their own regional monopoly. The EU is therefore behind this too, but the government intends to go further than the EU requires. The EU does not require VR to be dismantled. Mr President! True Finns do not object to competition if it were in the interests of the consumer, but if implemented in this way, breaking up the state railways would be the opposite. True Finns are particularly concerned about the status of personnel and the destruction of national property. The value of the state-owned company would collapse and the condition of the existing equipment already in use would be reduced. Similarly, ticket prices would likely increase. Real competition would not arise when one monopoly was replaced by another, a regional monopoly. It would be wrong for companies to generate profits at the expense of taxpayers when a vehicle company is born. Competition would almost certainly mean that private companies would only drive the most profitable trains in the future and the quietest, unprofitable trains would fall on the taxpayer's hands. International capital does not think about Finland’s regional development or equal treatment of our population. They are the responsibility of our decision-makers. Mr President! For these reasons, the People’s Party of Finland believes that this government’s way forward will result in damage and harm rather than benefits. It is intolerable to subject one transport sector after another to experiments whose consequences are unknown to no one and whose withdrawal is very difficult or even impossible. Transport is so big and important that playing with it endangers our national interests. We cannot allow or accept that. On this basis, we support the motion of censure against the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u12	Mr President! The railway network is the backbone of the kingdom. A glance at the map of Finland shows how far-reaching decisions were made in the Grand Duchy of Finland. The growth centres of the Republic of Finland are still located along the lines built in the Grand Duchy of Finland, whereas localities that are not covered by the network have declined. The decisions now being taken will have at least as far-reaching consequences. In the 19th century, where the construction of the railways was encouraged by industrialisation, climate change is now under pressure. Climate emissions from transport must also be drastically reduced, and this means transferring passenger and freight transport from rubber wheels to iron wheels. Although VR has increased passenger numbers, confidence in VR’s schedules has collapsed, ticket reform has failed, the rail network is collapsing and the traffic of small stations is decreasing. We must be able to do better if we are to achieve at least the EU's climate target of half of the traffic travelling by rail or by water in 2030. Mr President! The Government is looking for a response to VR's challenges about opening passenger train traffic to competition. But while competition is often a very useful tool, it must not be an ideological end in itself. It is difficult to assess the functioning of the Government because the restructuring of rail transport is carried out by a decision of the Government, without Parliament being touched — or confused. This is the only way to put this on Parliament's agenda at all. The government has also hidden the explanations behind its decision. Without the media's requests for information, we'd have to have this conversation on mere speculation. Even now, the situation picture is unclear, as the reports are contradictory and VR data have been deleted from them. Transparency and parliamentaryism have been a waste of time. Minister Berner, if the opposition has had misconceptions, that is precisely what this has been about. Indeed, the government model is not about genuine competition on the basis of the information crumbling to the public; instead, the national state monopoly would be replaced by regional private monopolies. The passenger would not be able to choose on the basis of the quality of service, availability and price of the operator's trains. A train operator who bought a local monopoly would do its job by reducing costs, not by developing a service, nor by a private company is it an obligation to think about the whole, but in the interests of shareholders. But what's the state's interest in VR Grouping? That's what the Secretary of Ownership would think. Is it maximising VR’s dividend returns, increasing VR’s portfolio or perhaps developing rail transport? The ideological nature of the Government’s competitive decision is illustrated by the fact that the government has ignored the very reports that the chosen competitive model would not increase traffic, would not reduce the ticket prices much and would not generate any additional revenue for the state. When the expert reports did not correspond to the cause, they were left behind. On the other hand, there is a risk in the government model that the value of state ownership will collapse, government expenditure will increase and ticket prices will rise, especially on low-traffic routes. The ideological glue of the Sipilä Government is a grudge against public service production, whether it be Post, the war, the transport network, the Finnish Broadcasting Company or rail transport. You have to put them together, you have to put them in competition, you have to kill them, you have to sell them. On the other hand, the government will carry out expert studies without competition, especially when previous studies have not produced the desired results. Mr President! The promotion of rail transport requires investment. The most trafficed rails are already congested, and even those trains are not lying idle on VR’s depot — at least if we believe the government’s initial cover-ups. The rail repair debt alone is already over EUR 1 billion. Disruptions and speed limits due to poor track condition are reflected in train traffic, especially in congested lines. But what motivates the new railway company to invest if the State is not willing to finance those investments? Nothing, at least not with the current owner's guidance. Mr President! For the reasons set out above, the Group of the Greens agrees with the motion of censure tabled by Mrs Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u13	Madam President! The Government and Minister Berner justify competitive tendering for rail transport in the EU's fourth railway package. The railway package requires the opening up of rail transport to competition unless there is a specific criterion for the continued direct supply of rail transport. European parliamentarians Sirpa Pietikäinen and Merja Kyllönen have pointed out that the EU does not now require competition for rail transport. The same has been said by Elina Thorström, Government Counsellor at the Ministry of Transport. The EU definition of "quality and coverage of service" is a very good criterion describing Finland. We therefore have a special reason to continue operating VR in Finland and now focus on improving the service rather than splitting it up. There is blind EU-faith to swallow the call for competition. In Finland, we have already taken the measures required by the EU to manage and operate the network and to differentiate between the education system and the safety system. In some places, there will be no more and better traffic on a single track, partly in poor condition, just by chopping up the state company VR and selling routes to foreign large companies for aggressive tax planning. There is no room for new traffic for the busiest lines. According to the consultant’s estimate, competitive tendering would only be more beneficial if the State made billions of investments, i.e. billions, by building more tracks for the overloaded connections. Where would that money come from when VR would not be able to pay dividends to the state, which, for example, paid EUR 90 million last year? On this basis, the economic impact of competition is estimated to have a negative balance of EUR 40 million. The government model is unclear, would be very expensive and would ultimately threaten workers' working conditions. In particular, the role of the vehicle company surprises me. Would Finns have to pay twice for wagons and locomotives, first as taxes on VR's purchases, then as ticket prices for equipment rental? It is difficult to get answers to these questions, because the whole project is being carried forward in closed working groups. Nor would the competitive model lead to cheaper tickets than on the most popular routes. It would appear that this is an ideological government project to place state property in the hands of international cream scrubbers. Mr President! Finland must focus on how to increase the movement of people and goods on the tracks. The objective of reducing CO2 emissions from transport by 2030 also requires this. The first point is, of course, the rehabilitation of the rail network. The Left Alliance proposes that a decision be taken jointly between all parties on the repair of the transport infrastructure and that decisions be carried over the parliamentary term. Examples of necessary repairs would be the improvement of the Pasila-Riihimäki railway section, the repair of the Oulu-Kemi-Kemi-Kemi-Kemi-Kemi-Iisalmi connections and the modernisation of the railway yards in Joensuu, Kouvola and Kuopio. Over the next few years, the funding of railway projects should be doubled. An amount of EUR 100 million must be allocated annually to investments above the current level. The Left Alliance and the Government share the view that the opportunities for regions and urban areas to strengthen work, study and business traffic on the tracks must be improved. However, no one yet knows where the province will finance and receive the resources while the regional reform still rests peacefully in its cradle. Mr President! There are too many bad international examples of train traffic. That is why the Left Alliance's parliamentary group supports the motion of censure tabled by Mr Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u14	Mr President, värderade talman! Ladies and gentlemen, you will now hear why the RKP is involved in this matter. The decision to open up rail passenger transport to competition is justified. Competition, when it is done correctly, is justified. The call for competition to be opened comes from the EU's fourth railway package, and it is good in itself that Minister Berner has been active in this matter. Healthy and user-friendly development of rail transport is central to the Swedish Parliament Group and the RKP. We cannot afford the wrong solutions here. However, the Government’s plans to bring forward the tendering process for rail transport are not convincing. Here I would like to point out that the details are not irrelevant. On the contrary, the details can be crucial for successful tendering. Trains as a means of transport affect the lives and everyday lives of many people. It is important that timetables can be trusted and that trains also stop at stations. Mr President! We consider it wise that Parliament should discuss the process envisaged at this stage. We want answers from the government now before we drift into a process that may be difficult to correct later. It goes without saying that competitive tendering must be carried out in such a way that rail transport will increase its popularity as a mode of transport. The second objective must be to ensure the level of service and to keep ticket prices at a reasonable level. In an elongated country such as Finland, which also has a different track gauge than in the rest of the EU, it is not very easy to carry out competitive tendering for rail transport. The very basic condition for the functioning of competition is that we need to improve the capacity of our network. As we say in the intermediate question: 'New operators have no room to grow mainly on our single-track network without investment'. We need double tracks, especially on the beach. The biggest bottleneck in both passenger and freight transport is the main railway line between Helsinki and Tampere. If we really want to develop rail as the most climate-friendly mode of transport, we need to improve the capacity of the main line. The shortage of free railway capacity for local trains in the Helsinki region is already crying out. Against this background, it is amazing how little the government talks about in its plan to open up competition on how to improve the capacity of the network. What is the government’s concrete response to this? In the opinion of the Swedish Parliamentary Group, the government should establish a mechanism to ensure continued investment in the rail network.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u15	Madam President! The Government's decision to open up rail passenger transport to competition follows the same pattern as so many other government projects: firstly, the decision is taken quickly and hastyly. Information about the decision raises more questions than answers. Before the decision is taken, experts will be consulted and expensive studies will be carried out. However, the basis for the final decision is those studies which reinforce the original idea. There will be no further examination of the overall impact of the reform. The Government is able to promote its decision through owner guidance without consulting the opinions of Parliament or the opposition. However, decisions on rail transport are a matter of size for a thorough and open debate. The development of rail transport is an important project for the future. None of us at this stage knows which parties will form the next government. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers it important that such a central issue be negotiated and sought a common solution. Mr President! Our parliamentary group welcomes the increase in competition. A condition for fair competition is that the customer also has a genuine real opportunity to make choices between competitors. Our economic growth has been hampered by the problems of labour mobility. The proposal would involve the regions in national competition in order to organise regional rail transport. It remains unclear how tendering organised by the provinces, for example in remote regions, would solve the problems of labour mobility. Passenger rail transport can be opened up to competition if it brings real additional benefits. The objective of the reform must be a significant increase in train services and passenger numbers, significantly lower ticket prices, an increase in the share of rail transport and lower total costs for the State. According to reports commissioned by the Ministry, this will not happen. According to one estimate, ticket prices would decline by only 6 per cent on average and even increase on less popular routes. According to one estimate, the volume of rail transport would increase by only 3%. At the same time, the total cost of public transport by rail would increase by 10%. The role of state ownership policy is to ensure not only the functioning of transport but also the value of the ownership. In the model proposed by the Government, VR would lose up to EUR 500 million. Is this good corporate governance? No, it's not. [Left: No!] Mr President! Train traffic is currently not functioning as a well-known train toilet. In many places there are too few train shifts to meet the need. Continuous delays are particularly harmful to workplace traffic. Flag reforms have made life difficult for many passengers, especially older people and disabled people. There is much room for improvement in VR's information and customer service. The main problem concerns the infrastructure repair debt and the delay in the necessary investments. Significant additional efforts would be needed to improve the condition of the railway network and increase capacity. Rail transport throughout the country would be better served if the third track of the main track were finally built. The same applies to many other planned rail projects. Would the Government’s decision increase resources for maintaining and improving the infrastructure? No, he wouldn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u16	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u17	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank Parliament and all its groups for allowing us today to hold a debate on the opening up of rail transport competition. Just as has been said here, the question of the interim is an opportunity to hold that debate here, and I am grateful to the opposition in particular. Contrary to what has been said here, preparations have been made for a long time and carefully. A comprehensive study on the opening of the competition and its effects was carried out by Juha Honkatukia during the period of my predecessor, Merja Kyllönen, in 2012. During my own term, we have spent almost two years doing studies, going through what have been the effects, assessed and discussed. The matter is therefore carefully prepared, documented and well-founded. There'll be no cream peeling. The Government has decided to open up competition by making use of concessions that may include both market-based traffic and purchasing and commitment shares. Incentives ensure that we strive to ensure the interests of customers and passengers, to maintain and improve the level of tickets and services. The opening-up model is very similar to the opening-up decision taken by HSL in 2014. There, too, it has been assumed that the operation will be competitive and that the equipment will come from a competitive point of view. Here, too, we are based on the same principle. Consequently, the fleet is leased on equal terms and does not create any potential for abuse. There has been close cooperation between HSL and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. This is demonstrated by the fact that tomorrow we will have a call of interest event in Finland with 150 interested parties, about a dozen operators. This also stems from the fact that, through cooperation, we are trying to ensure that there are not very many different ways to compete and operate in Finland, but that there is close cooperation with the model of commuter trains in the capital region. All reports are public. It has been decided to publish all the reports before the media has made any requests for information. I would also like to stress that the Boston Consulting Group report, which is in fact the only report to which the opposition refers here, states that the study does not assess the model of opening up competition. According to the study, opening up competition would be appropriate to start with urban rail transport in Southern Finland — and this is also the way the government has decided. In addition, the Boston Consulting Group's report does not take a position on the company plans but recommends that companies be transferred outside VR in order to ensure that the situation is fair for all parties. Furthermore, the study recommends that the separation of equipment be carried out in stages — this is also the case here. The benefit of this is that when supply increases, prices fall, and when prices fall, the number of passengers increases. This has happened in virtually all countries. Prices have not increased, the number has increased, and a very good example of this is the opening up of competition in bus and coach transport in Finland, which has increased the supply, decreased the price and increased the number of passengers. If we look at the situation in Finland: In the past two years, in the current VR, traffic has decreased by 10 per cent. Our long-distance trains currently have 2 million fewer passengers than we had in 2008. Synergies have also been highlighted here. I have had a close debate with the most important forest industry using goods transport, which has considered that the synergies are marginal in the end. The most important thing is that solutions can be found which, above all, find competitiveness, service levels and competitive prices. Investing in Infraa is important, and we have a parliamentary working group in which Mr Mats Nylund and Mr Harry Wallin are both involved. There we are also looking for long-term financing solutions for the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u18	Let's go to the debat. I ask the participants to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u19	Mr President! I would have asked Minister Berner that when you suggest that your model will increase traffic, there will be new shifts — we currently have 354 locomotives, 420 passenger cars, 18 Pendolinos, 171 commuter trains and wagons, and they are all currently in use and, of course, from the oldest point of view, will be removed — so what model will bring additional traffic, now that VR’s existing equipment is fully operational. Are these monopoly companies investing in some new equipment, or what do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u20	Madam President! Several Green supporters have been wondering and surprised in the media how the Green Parliamentary Group can be involved in this matter. It is time to ask the Greens for a genuine and correct line from their recent chairman, Mrs Aalto: what is your line? You are marketing your own party as a public transport-friendly, train-friendly, anti-climateist and defender of flexible new policies, but you are now putting a burden on rail transport so that no reforms should be made and no response to climate change should be made here either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u23	Madam President! When we talked about VR's operating result and dividend performance here, I would like to remind Parliament that in 2016, the operating result in VR Group was 43260000, of which passenger traffic accounted for only 16 million and slightly over. So now that we are exorcising this matter of passenger traffic, it is not such a great factor in this result. It must also be remembered that this passenger traffic result, EUR 16 million, also includes Nordic Transport, a bus company owned by VR and its operating result. Therefore, a very small part of the Group's overall result is, or is far from the majority, of this passenger traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u24	Mr President! When considering the future of rail transport, the most important thing would be to consider infrastructure in poor railway condition, the lack of double tracks and the customer perspective, but what is the government doing? The competitiveness of the government is a victory for all these essentials. When the number of equipment does not increase with the new operators, there will be no increase in the number of train shifts or routes. On the basis of publicly available studies, splitting up VR would also lead to a collapse of the company’s value. So to whom does the government carry out this reform if VR’s customers or VR’s owner are not the beneficiaries, i.e. the state and taxpayers? Then, in the group statement of the blue parliamentary group, there was such incorrect information. Contrary to what Mr Jalonen said, Mr Ramboll did not explain the economic and social impact of Mr Berner's model. This should be corrected in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u25	It's the whole that counts, and we're doing this to the Finns. The opposition accused us of being hasty here, the government is hasty. It is strange in politics to have this timetable: it is sometimes said that we slow down, and sometimes we rush and rush.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u28	Mr President! At least my own mistrust of the government in these transport matters is made up of a whole and that this reform of rail transport has now been brought to the table as part of a continuum, one of the more bizarre and damaging proposals. First, the forthcoming taxi reforms, the postal laws and then the Minister of Transport will bring out the integration of the road network and cause millions of market failures with their talk of revolutionising the car tax. This is not a coherent or confidence-building policy, and I wonder on whose terms this works. Who's in charge of this pattern? Who has been lobbying for the officials of the Ministry of Transport? Whose rubber stamp is this Parliament now acting as? But to the question: When the state should actually put the tracks and their steering equipment in order so that even VR could operate without constant delays and delays, the solution is not to take VR's operating possibilities away, but to put the tracks in order. Where's the funding for putting the tracks in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u29	Mr President! In fact, a significant part of VR Group's business is investment activity, and in recent years a large part of VR Group's operating profit has been income from securities and real estate investments. The question arises as to why the group's portfolio has been increased at the same time as the lines are collapsing and passengers complain about late-night trains. That is why I ask: is the decision to transfer VR Group's business focus from train traffic to investment activity in line with the state's corporate governance objectives, and what are the objectives of the state owner in relation to VR in general? Mr Vehkaperä, if you had listened to the Green Group speech, you would know that the risks of a government model for passenger train traffic are high and the benefits are questionable. That's why we demand better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u30	Madam President! Perhaps the old saying in this government proposal could be reminiscent of the fact that the poorly prepared one is half done. But the Minister should be asked: is there really room for new operators other than railway yards? I would like to hear an answer when Mrs Wallin, who I regard as a special expert in this Chamber, expressed her view on how much traffic there is currently on the network. And I think it is right and reasonable for Mrs Wallin to receive an answer that she does not leave the impression that she has spoken against better information here, but that she has already told us how congested the main track is. A little of this government proposal sounds to me like we're having a formal competition so we can't miss it, and then we're supposed to find it interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u31	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi har konstaterat att helt grundläggande för att kkonkurrensen ska fungera är att kapaciteten på vårt jänvägsnät förbättras. Utan investorsingar finns det helt enkelt inte rum för nya operatörer på vårt i huvudsak enspåriga batt. Konkurrens förutsätter tillväxt. Att öka användningen av kollektivtrafik, med concreteng på spårtrafik, är även nödvändigt för att klimatmålen ska nås. Men för närvarande är bannetets kapacitet begränsad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u32	Mr President! In the development of the transport sector, rail transport must play a growing and key role. Competition for rail passenger transport is so important that it deserves the attention and consideration of the whole Parliament, and this intermediate issue has proved to be appropriate and timely, as Minister Berner said. But there is no answer to the key question of how to ensure the investments required by the increase in train traffic on the network. The major problem is that traffic could hardly be increased on busy routes, as the rail network is a bottleneck. According to that consultant’s assessment, competitive tendering would only be more beneficial if the State made billion-dollar investments on the track. I hope that the Minister will answer this question: how will the promotion of competitive tendering be linked to infrastructure investments?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u33	Mr President! The opening-up of competition must be done gradually with great precision and thought-out that the outcome will not be worse than the current situation. The concerns are genuine, as the representative of the plant brought out in his own speech and through questions. The opening-up of competition must aim to increase the overall volume of rail transport. It should be noted that the improvement in the level of service combined with price competition is a challenging objective. I would like to ask the minister in question: how effective, safe, effective and fair is the rail transport system?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u34	Madam President! The Boston Consulting Group's report concluded that Finland has the third best rail system in Europe. In terms of cost efficiency, we are the first. Why must the good be chopped, and why must the good, the best, and the better be changed? Minister Berner, Director-General of Ownership Guidance, which you have moved to the side, Mr Hoylovaara said that this would destroy hundreds of millions of euros of VR's ownership value. What will you answer this question? Finally, for Mr Jalonen: the fourth railway package in the EU does not require ideology 'now, now and for all competition', but would allow transitional periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u35	Madam President! The central parliamentary group wants more efficient public transport, more train passengers, better services for people, especially people's services, and opportunities to create regional commuter trains and seamless public transport service chains in the future. When I listened to the opposition's group speeches, it was interesting that there was apparently no opposition to the competition itself, just the one model that has now been put forward. And yet the model that has now been presented improves services and also allows cheaper tickets in the future. And what is interesting is that the opposition says that this has been brought quickly and quickly. However, almost two years ago there was a similar debate, and Mr Wallin said, among other things, that "the SDP will continue to develop Finnish public transport into modern and better service for people across Finland".
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u36	Thank you, Mrs Torniainen, for reminding us of this good statement. That is exactly what we want. This government model brings no added value to this current traffic. The present market is divided between other operators, and the equipment is the same. What added value does it bring? Nothing at all. I know that the stick has been bought here by promising that the provinces will be able to organise traffic in the future. But with what funding? When the provinces do not have the right to tax, that money comes from the State, i.e. the State then finances its transport through the provinces. And now I understand why the centre is so firm behind this: this regional reform has driven you crazy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u37	President! It has been suggested from the opposition that there is capacity. At present, state railways have 110 Soviet-made electric locomotives, 46 Europeans and 10 new Sr3-style electric locomotives, which means 166 are currently electric locomotives. But VR is already preparing for the future: there are 46 Sr2, there are currently 10 Sr3s, 80 of which have been purchased and 97 trains with an option, so 223 are likely to be electric locomotives already in 2026. Which means there's capacity. VR will also be preparing for this fourth railway package from the European Union in the future. That this is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u38	Mr President! The reason why this issue of increased capacity has caused much confusion in the opposition is that in all the studies made on this competition, it is stated that train capacity cannot be increased without additional rail investments, which is due to the fact that by far the majority of the rail network is single track, i.e. it is not possible to increase this utilisation rate without additional tracks and without breaking down congestion in railway yards. For this reason, the model proposed by the government is in practice the redistribution of existing markets between profit-making private operators in a way which, according to these consultancy studies, will also be loss-making for taxpayers. In other words, they will be able to operate on a tax-funded basis, as if through a regional monopoly. Is this the concept of a free market economy in the coalition, the model you are now presenting?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u39	Madam President! We don't have any traffic in the country in the yards. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u40	Mr President! It is important that rail transport is developed in the way that customers receive the service and that these climate considerations are also taken into account. In this debate, the perspective of what this government model means for VR's ownership value and the return on VR's ownership has not been taken into account. Both Boston Consulting Group and Spring Advisor agree that this reduces the value of the State’s ownership of these new companies and also means that the State’s ability to receive dividends from these companies will be reduced. Ramboll hasn't evaluated this at all. Now I would ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä, when you were the Minister of Corporate Governance at the time of the request for these clarifications, and I understand that you could answer this question: What does this mean for the value of state ownership in VR and future companies, if the ideas of the government are realised, and what does this mean from the point of view of income? What will happen to public finances in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u41	Mr President! I believe that reform is an opportunity, because opening up rail competition in passenger transport will enable regions, large cities and urban areas to organise regional or local rail transport. Minister Berner said that the utilisation rate of our rail network is one of the lowest in Europe. In my opinion, the cross-sectional lines and the Eastern Finland lines in particular are scarcely used. In these same regions, the supply of local bus services has also decreased year by year, despite demand and the need for transport. Ladies and gentlemen, VR does not seem to be interested in these silent sections, and their traffic will have to be maintained by means of compulsory transport claims and subsidies. Once the competition has been opened, modern rail buses could operate between provincial cities — stops are frequent. At the same time, the stops would be bypasses so that the Pendolinos and other fast-moving long-distance trains could get past the rail buses. It's a possibility, not a threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u42	Mr President! The Government’s plans to cut up VR and to compete with rail transport will not solve the problems of train traffic that Finns are currently experiencing, and this is also evidenced by the studies commissioned by the Government itself. Mr President! VR's operations need to be improved, but the situation in train traffic does not improve by destroying VR. Traffic in sparsely populated areas will not increase with this model, at least not without larger public subsidies for purchasing in sparsely populated areas. It's not gonna work out with this model. If there is to be a significant increase in traffic in sparsely populated areas, then it will also require significantly more support. But, Mr President, the problems of Finnish rail transport will not be solved without investments in the railways. For example, passenger and freight traffic between Finland and Sweden in the north cannot begin without electrification of the Kemi-Tornio track. In other words, these projects and these new, needed connections are often not available without investments in the tracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u43	Värderade fru talman! Det är alldeles självfallet så att en fungerande tågtrafik är vasentlig i ett stort land som Finland. Vi måste se till att vi kan betjana below Människor på ett smidigt jätt. Men, värderade fru talman, som det arv har kommit fram är en av våra allra största flaskhalsar det att vi har problemm med jänvägsnätet. Vi har helt enkelt inte tillräckligt med spår. Då skulle man tycka att man i en kkoncurrensuttningssituation borde värna om att förutsättningarna är de bästa. Därför tycker svenska ricksdagsgruppen och SFP att man brode satsa på järvägsnätet först för att skapa de raus kkonkurrensförutsättningarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u44	Madam President! There has been a long discussion here about how excellent VR is and how it would like to drive more trains in the provinces and rural areas. But the experiences when Kauhava comes from the railway area are somewhat opposite: after half-six if you want to take the train, for example, It is not possible for Kauhava to jump in to Helsinki to handle his own business or business. It's the same situation in Lapua. VR has built these own pricing systems in such a way that when you get on board from big stations, you get discounts, but when you get on board from the countryside, no discounts are available. After that, VR will put the rags on the municipal board that you do not have passengers, the station will be closed. Last year three railway stations were closed between Vaasa and the Seinäjoki: Isokyro, Laihia, Ylitaro. There's a track out there. There would be room to move there, but VR is not in the mood to organize traffic there. Could the left-wing opposition now tell us why this is, if you think there is capacity?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u45	Mr President! Many train passengers must have heard the following announcement on the train: "We're running late because there's traffic on the tracks."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u48	Madam President! I think it is worth correcting how the Minister, in his good introduction, pointed out this regional monopoly that is now operating here. This proposal does not contain a regional monopoly, i.e. a number of train operators can operate on the same line, and it creates opportunities in that area. These operators can use their bus traffic to feed passengers here on trains, and that is what we are looking for. The aim of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party in this reform is two particularly important objectives: The second is that the emission reduction targets can be improved and complied with by increasing the share of rail passengers. It's important. And the other is the perspective of the passengers. Where competition has been opened, there is evidence that prices are falling, the service will improve and the passenger share of rail will increase. We are currently underachieved in rail transport in Finland, and of course investment is needed, investment is needed
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u49	Mr President! I take trains almost daily and I can sign what Mr Lindtman said here. It must also be said that the pain of the customers on the trains there is tangible. VR's services must be fixed quickly, and I must also say that this flag reform has been a real farce. The railways are also in very poor condition and the railway capacity is completely inadequate, as has been said here. Representatives Koski and Kurvinen referred to regions where there is no congestion on the tracks or provision for train services, but I do have to wonder who the private company is, a foreign company that is going to run completely unprofitable sections of the track. At the moment, we are running these unprofitable sections of the track with purchasing traffic so that people can travel in the provinces. Minister, how will these people in the provinces go in the future when there is no shopping and if there is no business there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u50	Madam President! For example, at a time when the Midway Alignment project is being carried out in Vaasa, it is absolutely scandalous that the RKP, under the chairmanship of the Presidency, is involved in this issue, because it is important that people and services are brought to the coast. Vaasa has always been used to doing things in its own right, and I am sure there is a solution there too, which means that private companies and operators will certainly also be available for the Seinäjoki-Vasa section.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u51	Mr President! Now, as Mr Nylund has very clearly stated earlier, it is not a question of whether competition is a good thing for the Swedish group. That's what it is, as long as it's done right — as long as it's done right. And as much as you love the market economy, it cannot be that as soon as someone mentions the word "competition", the drool begins to drain like Pavlov's dogs. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u52	Mr President! As has become very clear here, the tracks will not increase with competition. Mr Jokinen, the representative of the Coalition Party, gave a fine speech on what is all going to increase, but when it cannot increase if the tracks do not increase. [Kalle Jokisne’s interlude] In his introductory speech, Minister Berner himself said that during peak times the track was almost in full capacity. Once the Minister has already admitted it himself, we can now discuss the fact that they really are. And when I'm there, this morning the last train was 35 minutes late.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u53	Let us take Mr Mikkonen, Mr Essayah and Mr Tolppanen, and then we shall go to the ministers' speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u54	Mr President! The rail network is burdened with a repair debt of around one billion, and without further investment in the rails, no competitive model really works. There is simply no room for more traffic for those congested sections where demand growth would have great potential. Moreover, the opening-up of competition does not alter the fact that a large proportion of the rail network currently operated will be limited in passenger numbers and will not be sufficient to finance transport. Minister Berner said that competitive tendering would be carried out in a balanced way, so that the quieter shifts would not remain to be run by the State, but would also have to be taken on board by those involved. But the Minister also said that tendering will start in urban traffic in Southern Finland. In practice, however, this package will not be made. There is therefore nothing to be expected outside of Congestion Finland other than compulsory and purchasing traffic — which this government has been reducing all along — and rising ticket prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u55	Madam President! This government’s market model is forced to be criticised because it is a fact that, if capacity is not increased, these regional monopolies will emerge. It is difficult to see that there would be a fierce fight between the Nurmes-Lieksa area, that who would be able to operate that area. And so the expected value of Eastern and Northern Finland rests on whether these concessions will become binding in such a way as to secure rail transport. On the other hand, the question arises of those who are taken over by this regional monopoly: what can be done to ensure that, for example, ticket prices do not rise to such a level that it is impossible for people who are actually on low incomes to use the limited public transport equipment that is now available there? So from the Minister we are now seeking answers on how to actually take care of Eastern and Northern Finland and others
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u56	Mr President! We in Ostrobothnia don't need competition. We need fast train connections from Vaasa, we need double tracks. We have a big project there, Midway Alignment, which is a maritime route to Sweden and Mo i Rana, straight to the Arctic Ocean. The resulting project, Minister, will be a direct link to St.Petersburg from Vaasa station, once we reach Finland from Mo i Rana and Sweden. And for that we really need double tracks, and we need fast connections there, not a separate competition. Then another thing that I would like you, Minister, to take into account at some point is that now that tickets are not available at railway stations, it is impossible for visually impaired people with tube vision or otherwise poor vision to buy a ticket from an ATM. In addition, people in wheelchairs cannot reach those machines. This is a practical problem at the moment, which should be able to be dealt with. We should also get tickets from trains.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u57	Before the Minister, Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u58	Thank you, Mr President. There is a great deal of fear here that regions and urban areas should be entitled to buy traffic, and I personally think it is good. And if there is a little opening up to the financial side of this: when there is a suspicion that the money is not enough, I think next year we are going to spend 1.4 billion on basic bus maintenance, and that is at a record high level. If a minister could shed some light, is there a chance that this money will be removed from the state budget? Personally, I don't see that possibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u62	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u69	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u70	Mr President! There is free railway capacity in Finland, but unfortunately it is out of place, which means that there is a shortage here in the most congested regions of the south, and again in those provinces it is unused. This is a problem that does not get any better with this competition, and investment is needed. They are very much needed, as we heard in the Transport Section this morning. The involvement of the regions in this tendering process and its implementation is a very interesting issue, and I would like some ideas on that. Behind Tampere and Mikkeli, there is a fear that there will be no more traffic. However, when the Minister said that these packages were being made, I would ask: how much do you estimate that the private operator can be placed under responsibilities in relation to how the state is now supporting this unprofitable transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u71	Mr President! In a number of opposition speeches, this opening-up of competition to rail transport has been called out loudly, but then, at the end of the speech, it was said with a slightly smaller voice that we are actually in favour of this opening-up of competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u74	Mr President! We've been talking about this rail capacity, and that's right. As the Minister said, there is a capacity full in certain places during peak periods. There's no room for more in Pasila Station than there is currently room for. It's a simple fact. I think we all agree that there is too much of a repair debt in the last period and that it needs to be dismantled in some way. Through the parliamentary group, the debt of correction was removed, this government has done so, and your main focus is on you. Railways are under a similar repair debt, need refurbishment, and a large, significant repair liability is the control equipment of the safety equipment. They're old. They need refurbishment. No one has denied this. We need to pay attention to them, but we'll have more competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u75	Mr President! One question for Minister Berner, from the user's point of view, about these rail investments: how will the functionality and clarity of information and ticket systems be ensured from the passenger's point of view, for example in the event of a train change, if there are possibly several operators on the network? The second issue of these rail investments: The increase in train travel requires sufficient, larger investments in the rail network and its functionality, as has already been pointed out on many occasions. Interest and the need to increase rail transport are precisely those rail sections which are already facing the greatest strain and the need for additional investment. Should there not first be an idea and a presentation of the additional investment in the track, and only then policies with the prerequisites for such investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u76	Mr President! Competitive competition is already a fact of life in passenger transport, and fair competition, genuine competition, may lead to lower ticket prices. It can also increase traffic, but it also strengthens state ownership on the one hand and state ownership on the other. It is now a question, however, that this model, which Mr Berner has advocated, means that the price of tickets will increase. According to various reports, it will mean that traffic will not increase, and it will mean, Prime Minister Sipilä, that the value of the state's ownership will, according to one estimate, be reduced by up to EUR 500 million. Minister Berner, what are you basing your claim on just now that there is no effect on the value of the property in any way? And Prime Minister Sipilä, I would like an answer from you. You were the secretary of corporate governance when these reports were ordered. I would now like to ask for an answer to this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u77	Madam President! I am particularly pleased that there is a broad view in this House that rail transport and rail transport should and should be invested in the coming years. Next year's a record year in the debt-recovery ratio. We are investing more than EUR 500 million in various infrastructure projects, and that will be necessary. The issue now appears to be the issue of specialised companies in terms of equipment, real estate and maintenance. After all, we already have special task companies, such as Finavia, and I have not heard anything about the fact that we should not have this kind of Finavia, which is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the airport terminal and its infrastructure. It's working! But competition is now being opened up not only for road, air and maritime transport but also for passenger trains, and it is welcome. Only 5% of the total traffic is on rail tracks, and this traffic needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u78	Mr President! Having seen for myself the reduction in train services in sparsely populated areas through these purchasing services, I have been wondering in this situation what new situation the competitive tendering will bring us. Do we get more shifts, or how else will it change? The only practical solution that has happened there is that people have moved on to cars, moving together, the 2030 environmental targets are weakening in us. There was such a question about how much more traffic is being made there, whether the government is going to buy more purchasing services, put more money in order to make rail transport play in sparsely populated areas and people think that rail transport is a good service and then use it afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u79	Madam President! On the road, at sea, there is already a choice of customers in the air. VR is still operating on our lines on an exclusive basis. When it is done by a monopoly, then there is the right but also the responsibility to carry out the exclusive task, and there is a message from customers that this exclusive task is not being carried out in the way it should be: trains do not stop, even if people want trains, tickets are not available on trains, trains are not on time and so away. Thank you, Minister Berner, for taking steps to get people on trains. Of course, the railways must be developed, absolutely, and I would like to ask because this increase in the railway capacity of the main railway line north of Riihimäki could be achieved. Thank you, too, to the ministers. There has been a strong voice from the left side of the hall, but it is good that you have also raised the voice of customers in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u80	Mr President! The Government’s goal is to look long into the future, and one part of it is this development of VR. It responds to the sustainability problems of public finances while at the same time ensuring that the needs of climate change are taken into account. If we do not now open up rail transport to competition, it is quite clear that the development of rail transport will stop, as will the development of rail lines, because this is the only way to ensure that this will serve both passengers and the development of VR. There is nothing strange about making three special-purpose companies. As has been said here, we have these types, such as Finavia, and there are others. This is the way in which we will ensure that the future of the latest mode of transport, which will be opened up to competition, is secured through this, and I thank the Government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u81	Mr President! Four studies were carried out for this opening-up of competition, but only one of the studies ended with a positive overall economic assessment. I wonder why you have taken this particular one into account so strongly. In my opinion, it was the weakest quality of all, ignoring a number of very important issues. The one who, in my opinion, was the highest quality of all these studies says this: "Competition itself would not increase the demand for rail transport. Rather, the pressure on ticket prices caused by increased costs would reduce demand. Demand-enhancing service level factors: speed, punctuality and quality, and would require significant investment in equipment and rail." Why don't you guys put these on?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u82	President! This debate seems to focus on the dispute as to whether the Finnish railways are full or empty. But if there were really free capacity in different parts of Finland, trains would not be constantly delayed. When the track is full, every disturbance is repeated because it is very difficult to rotate. Of course, it's a traffic jam during rush hour, but that's when those passengers are stuck on the trains. The need for investment — whether or not it is competitive or not — is a fact and is well evident from these well-spoken expert reports, three of which are ignored by the government. However, the three were not cheap explanations, that is to say, the price tag for hundreds of thousands of euros. Is this a good use of state resources for research, clearing and settlement?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u83	Mr President! The reform will give regions and cities the opportunity to organise regional rail transport, which will enable them to work even further. The example of Varsinais-Suomi has recently shown that labour mobility is a potential bottleneck for economic growth. In order to make full use of structural changes in the future, further efforts must be made to facilitate mobility. Opening up rail transport to competition offers a whole new opportunity for this. Of course, we are all calling for more rail investment, and the government has already been quite exemplary in this regard. In Varsinais-Suomi, for example, the important electrification of the New Town Track has received funding. For example, a two-way transformation of the Turku-Salo railway section is needed in Southwest Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u84	Madam President! I myself am very much on the train, and yes to me at least, as many fellow passengers are certainly familiar with what Mr Lindtman has just called for here. Too often, there is an announcement that there is traffic and we are late. In my view, Mr President, I must say that it is very confusing for the government to think that it would be possible to substantially improve services by dividing the seemingly existing market between private operators without at the same time closing the repair debt or building new rail lines. On the contrary, it seems to me that it has now become clear that the result is that the private sector is involved and the value of the state's assets is falling. I'm afraid that's what's going to happen. We have talked about these necessary new rail connections, and I am very concerned about how quickly we can get, for example, from Tampere to Riihimäki on this third track.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u85	Mr President! In the big picture, at least three of these big things are needed to achieve the goals of tendering: First of all, we must have a secure network with sufficient capacity. Secondly, in addition to market-based services, society must decide where and what kind of services should be provided, and that is why this tendering process is now being carried out through concessions. Thirdly, as regards the provision of services, the system functions of the railways must be organised in such a way that the services are produced customer-orientedly, efficiently and safely. Now, when you look openly at this model and the whole, the way the government is going to proceed with this competition, you will clearly identify these three big lines, which now say you have to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u86	Mr President! Capacity on tracks and tracks is not constant. If you look at the development of individual aircraft by aircraft, how much space can one aircraft today hold in comparison to the fact that, at the beginning of the flight in Finland, there were over 300 passengers flying DC-3 to which I remember 18 passengers — the latest Finnair aircraft will take over 300. In local transport, the construction of the wagons can be changed so that there are two layers. The train body may be extended. The question is how much is in demand. In rural areas, the demand is much more limited than here. VR has been in competition all the time against bus traffic, against air traffic, and probably the biggest problem with the Finnish transport network is that rail cannot be competitive in relation to air traffic until the rail network is competitive, so that the main railway line is directly connected to Vantaa Airport, which means that the total journey time
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u87	Mr President! The aim of this reform is to improve the service level and customer orientation of rail transport and to promote the price level of tickets. Good and supported objectives. Healthy competition is always good, but at least two things are needed to achieve this ideal situation: Firstly, that competition is well organised and that there is sufficient supply. The main challenge is how to increase supply in busy areas, how to solve these bottlenecks. It is not enough to have equipment if there is no free railway capacity. The second challenge is to find operators in remote areas, as has been demonstrated in several speeches. When we find the right and credible solutions to these questions, we could take the project forward. This is not about the timetable for the project, it is about the credibility of the strategy and the right choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u88	Mr President! Mr Wallin and the opposition, the hand to the heart, do we currently have rail transport as it should? Finland’s transversal connections — are they working? [Heckling] Yes, there is a need for a change in rail transport, and this proposal, which the government has made, will bring about that change. It gives us opportunities, it allows new players to come, we also develop transversal traffic, we also develop these quieter sections of the line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u89	Mr President! Yes, it is quite an optimism to think that competitive tendering itself brings traffic here to quiet sections of the track. Now cross-border traffic is booming, there will be a fierce competition for who can operate there. If so, then everything will be fine. But these background studies show that prices between large cities in general would fall by 6 percent; elsewhere they would rise. The benefits of competitive rail transport and the increase in passenger numbers would require billions of investments in the 2020s. That is what this is all about. Where do we get the billions so that we can create such conditions in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u90	Mr President! The Minister said and compared that more competition and better service has been achieved in air transport, more service has been provided in bus transport. That's right. The Turku-Helsinki motorway can accommodate buses every 100 metres if there are enough passengers, and there can be planes between Helsinki and Oulu between Helsinki and every 15 minutes if there is demand and passengers. But rail traffic is a whole different story. Some operators might be interested in these so-called cream peeling shares, the busy sections, but they are already blocked, as has been said many times here, there is no capacity. And who really believes that some foreign operators would come here to Eastern and Northern Finland to drive the heavy-handed shifts so far, that there would then be rail buses throbbing every half hour — not even from this world with such fantasies, but with huge taxpayers' support billions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u91	Mr President! There has been an interesting and colorful debate here. I get the feeling that it's not worth it, but it's not going to work. In my opinion, this question from the opposition to the Prime Minister was very good that this opening up of competition to the government was an ideological matter. The Prime Minister's answer was perfect, including in terms of reducing emissions from transport, and I would say that more climate action is being done here. Here Mr Mäkelä barked at a number of other government reforms and asked how Parliament could accept them and whether Parliament was a rubber stamp, and when he mentioned this taxi reform separately, I remembered that Mr Mäkelä was also a taxi reform and these other reforms were also in favour of Parliament's approval and vote for it. Monopoly when dismantled and competition is opened, it always brings benefits to the customer and the efficiency of the operation. But then on these packages, I'd like to ask the ministers:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u92	Mr President! This raised the issue of how competition in other countries has been quite successful, but it must be remembered that when competition was opened up in Sweden, there was a significant investment in rail transport, and that is exactly what should be done here in order to get on these tracks. Sweden's experience shows that train journeys have increased in congested areas, which is an excellent thing, but unfortunately, at the same time the service has weakened in less populated areas, and that is our concern. In this model, it is the problem of how we make sure that trains also run in less populated areas, and it does not mean just those small villages, but, for example, you can no longer get north from Joensuu. Every year we have to fight for that money. These mistakes, which were made in Sweden, should be learned. The Minister told me that these are being packaged, but when I asked about it just now, I did not receive an answer. When you start in Southern Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u93	Mr President! First of all, Prime Minister Sipilä and the government deserve recognition for the fact that during this parliamentary term we are investing in the construction of a network of waterways — the Prime Minister was a little modest just now — I can say, in record terms, and that means repairing and improving roads, railways and railways. That, of course, brings us to the common concern as to how we will proceed from now on. How can we build railroads that are once J.V. What is planned at the time of Snellman, so that a new network can be created if necessary and thus create competition? In the past, though, I thought that the poor condition of the tracks was an obstacle to the development of rail transport, but the opposition seems to be taking that place. We also need competition. This is obvious because competition seems to improve it – for example, Ouluns fly much more cheaply than do the choirmen to Helsinki. There are several companies flying from Oulu, and this also affects them. All in all, reform is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u94	Mr President! A short time ago, Mr Rinne wondered about the government's dividend yield, which he felt should continue to be obtained as a return on VR's passenger transport, and this is perhaps a question that we need to consider in greater detail. When you consider where that profit from passenger traffic comes from, so that you can pay a dividend, it comes from the passenger’s purse, the purse of an ordinary person working, the purse of small entrepreneurs, the purse of companies, and so on. Yes, in this reform, it is good to have competition in order to better control the dividend distribution policy and channel these benefits to passengers. They're the ones who play the most important role. But are we really in a situation where the SDP is more interested in dividend returns than in the well-being of passengers and good travel for Finnish citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u95	Mr President! A moment ago, Mr Savola addressed Mrs Wallin. I don't know which Wallin he meant. I think it's gonna be like two Wallins for the price of one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u98	Mr President! From that speech by Kopra, the impression was that international companies are coming to Finland to do charity. [Department:Beloved! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u99	Mr President! In this debate, I am very surprised that the opposition is starting to suffer in this regard. After all, the State will remain in this competitive bidding model, i.e. the establishment of state-owned rolling stock, maintenance and real estate companies. Isn't that a good thing? And then when you listen to what the opposition has to say, it is the opposition who assumes that foreign actors are required. It is good for the city centre that operators should be domestic operators, just as domestic operators have also come to our lines through the tendering of freight.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u100	Mr President! I would also have liked an assessment from Minister Berner of the fact that VR staff are very concerned, of course rightly so, about whether this may be a price competitive advantage on their salaries. It's easy to think of it now that it turns out that there's no more tracks and that equipment is moving around. But what, then, is it really going to happen a little as in the spirit of the kiky agreement, that is to say, wages and, therefore, competitiveness? A month and a half ago, as I recall, the CEO of OnniBuss told me how we could then compete in the same way as buses and even put our equipment in a different colour. I somehow thought that perhaps, however, the necessary shifts in the service and the fact that they are always timely and accurate, at reasonable prices, are the competitive advantage, and not the color of the wagons, which is hardly the case now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u101	Mr President! The question is: if the opposition is satisfied with the current situation? Of course not. Many speakers have raised problems, such as the one-trackness of the network, such as its poor condition, ticket reform, how badly it was implemented, and also the impact of these cut-off shifts on the mobility of ordinary people. Does tendering solve these problems? It won't. Competition does not automatically turn unprofitable shifts into profitable — no, but will continue to be paid for by the public authorities in the future if we want transport there. Will the competition automatically bring additional capacity? Does it automatically increase the utilisation rate? Not without additional government-funded investments. I do wonder about this blind belief in this competition by the government parties. You claim that ticket prices are falling, services are improving, costs are falling, climate targets are being met, and then there is the courage to hint in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u102	One last comment, Mr Wallin, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u103	Representative Savola, hand to heart, your government was about to close down, among other things, the Seinäjoki-Haapamäki-Jyväskylä traffic at the Minister Berner's presentation less than two years ago. Fortunately, the opposition raised a mid-term issue, after which these low-speed lines were returned to compulsory transport. Like I said, I understand why the Central Party is behind this. This word 'province', 'rural reform', is what you are now involved in. The provinces organise train traffic. What kind of money? Prime Minister, I'm asking, how? Will there be additional money for the regions to organise some transport, when you have said that the reform of social welfare and health care will be financed at the level of the state? But how is it possible for the municipalities to start paying? Hey, we're all making a budget for our own municipality next year. I say that at least the city of Seinäjoki cannot afford to start paying something like EUR 1 million or EUR 2 million for the organisation of some train service. It's part of society. There's got to be public transport everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u104	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u105	Mr President! Representative Aalto asked how the compatibility of the ticket system can be ensured in the future when there is a multi-operator environment and a number of service providers. The answer to this is the Act on transport services, i.e. the Code of Conduct, which enters into force, particularly with regard to open information, 1.1. It will require that ticket systems are compatible across the country, not only between train operators, but also between buses, trains, taxis and other service providers. The question of whether the first step should have been to invest in the network and then to consider opening up competition: This is a very relevant question, but we currently have no rail capacity to exploit, we have reduced train services over several years, we have very few bottlenecks, they are only at certain hours of the day. We also need justification for future investments, and that is why it is extremely important that we genuinely get the number of passengers on the train up and that we really get justification for investing in this network, and that is why it is good to see that we do these things side by side. As has been the case here, this is a nine-year process, starting now with one connection between urban traffic in Southern Finland, which is Kotka-Kouvola-Tampere. This link is entirely purchase-and-obligation traffic today. So now we're bidding for the government's tax money that people pay. By tendering these tax money and buying the related service better, we hope to get more value for the money, more traffic when it is assessed by more operators. Hopefully, this will create more euros for us to use for purchasing in the whole country, and hopefully it will also provide transport to areas such as those raised by Mrs Myller, Joensuu-Nurmes. This will lead to more traffic there, not through the fact that some operator will be able to drive it out of good faith, but through the fact that we have more euros that we can use. Since competitive tendering will make it more efficient to spend money on purchasing, it will give rise to more shifts. What else can be done with it? It also makes use of the fact that, when bidding for the purchase and obligation of goods, the level of service is also being competitive. It is quite clear that these concessions are subject to a service level requirement. There is also the fact that we can manage that traffic through incentives. It will then be possible to develop the system in a completely different way than at the moment when we have one state-owned monopoly company that tells us how much it drives traffic with this money, and we have no idea whether it is correct or wrong — it is this traffic, that’s it, take it or leave it. In the future, we can ask more. From tomorrow's call of interest we know that there is interest in Finnish transport, and precisely because we combine our cooperation between HSL and the state, that is how we get more traffic. If we look at it now, Mr Mikkonen, when you said from the Swedish proposal that there would have been a reduction in local traffic, on the contrary: commuter trains in the regions have tripled since the opening-up of rail transport to competition. So that is not a solution of this kind. Mr Lindtman, you spoke about the loss of synergies. Currently, high-speed passenger locomotives are almost exclusively used for passenger transport. They are not used in a cross-border way with freight transport. Older locomotives, yes, but synergies are relatively low in these areas. Here, too, we have found that this is not the solution; the solution is that we are able to ensure better use of equipment, better circulation and better optimization. This is one point of view. Mr Rinne, you justify VR's loss of value with Spring's report, which is the only one to bring it up. The values are based on information provided by VR. Nor do we see any valuation for these in that report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u106	Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u107	Mr President! I think there is quite a consensus here that change is needed. There is a need for more rail transport to reduce emissions from transport, to improve labour mobility, to improve the accessibility of the regions. As far as this question of capacity is concerned, as the Minister said, VR has already operated with a capacity that is 10 % higher. And as the Minister also explained in his presentation, compared to 2008 to 2016, there are currently 2 million fewer long-distance journeys. In other words, there is a need for more efficiency in capacity and there is certainly a need for new investments. Well, what is this change from a railway professional's point of view? Of course, competitiveness will not be built by trampling on wages, but by increasing the share of rail transport, and it will also result in new job opportunities for professionals. We are probably in agreement here that there is a need for more rail transport. Competition is the way we can increase it. A vehicle company is needed to increase competition. We've got capacity, we can enhance it. It is possible to make more efficient use of capacity, but we also need investment in the future – we hope that investment will be needed in the future when the railway section grows. As far as this VR value is concerned, VR's turnover has been around 1.2 billion. In 2015, the net profit was 21 million and in 2016 the net profit was 50 million. Now, if there are four companies making this same turnover, I think it is an understatement by professionals that the four companies together are not able to meet that requirement. Of course they can, said who... [Department: Is the Square Danger Wrong? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u108	We are going to take one more debatable round, and I will mainly prioritize those speakers who have not yet made it out loud here, but the debatable round will be started by Mrs Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u109	Mr President! With regard to this issue of quality, punctuality, cost-effectiveness, in the EU comparison VR is the top caste in the whole of Europe and it is also good to say it out loud. It is also worth asking what will happen to their efficiency gains if the same locomotives and locomotive drivers are not used effectively in the transport of goods and passengers, as Mrs Lindtman, for example, pointed out quite well in the past. And what will happen to efficiency gains if the national planning of transport is fragmented? It is good to have more answers to this too. In my opinion, there is a great deal of good in this reform, and many of those key issues are also supported by the Greens, but there are also many open questions, many open questions. Of course, an open mandate cannot be given. Where VR is currently not operating, but where traffic could be increased, competitive tendering can be used a little more. The tendering of HSL's local transport is all right, and its experience could be used as a basis if more calls for tender are made in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u110	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just used a rather harsh language about the highest official in corporate governance in Hoylovaara, but on this very point. Four companies, state-owned companies, are producing the same results as they have done so far. I'm sure that's true. But here the aim is that the competitive traffic should be distributed by other companies, and that will mean that turnover will be reduced, it will mean that the value of ownership will be reduced. So has BCG, so has Spring Advisor, both of them. And this means that the value of state ownership will be reduced. It means that its ability to distribute dividends will be reduced. It would also make sense for me, Mr Kopra, to use this money to develop VR, to provide customers with services, to buy train tickets and to stop trains when the customer needs them. In this situation, however, it is shocking how poorly we have studied these reports on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u111	Let's take the Prime Minister here, 1 minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u112	Mr President! The weakness of this way of thinking is that it is always thought that this is a zero-sum game, that is, we are simply redistributing the pot that does not change anything. All this time, our aim is that the share of rail transport in the total traffic from that 5% will now finally grow close to what it is in Sweden, for example, 9%. And when the pot is bigger, then there will still be enough for VR as well. And I believe that VR professionals will be able to defend that part of this whole pot with real success. I have no doubt that VR will manage and play its part in this competition. I know that there are professionals there, both in the lead and in the performing step, and that's why I have nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u113	All right, now we're expanding the debate, Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u114	Thank you, Mr President. The climate policy objectives we set ourselves and the overall advantage of the national economy require that rail passenger and freight transport also develop in such a way that predictability and also profitability are improved, and of course that requires competition and investment. After all, we have time to intensify and develop in this area for several years. All we need now is a clear line to improve this productivity, which can bring this 5% framework closer to the Swedish level. And that requires that competition is needed, that resources are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u115	Mr President! It is almost touching to listen to the concerns of the demars and the Greens about the investment activities and dividends of state-owned companies. That's nice to hear. I hope that the same concern about central government finances will continue in this budget debate as we go further than autumn. This competition for rail transport: elsewhere it has opened up opportunities. It has increased travel on the tracks, improved service and reduced prices. I don't understand why it wouldn't do that at our house. It is important that these chains of travel be made smoother between different modes of transport, and this also opens up the possibility of doing so. At the moment, we still have unused capacity. VR's filling rate is 40% at the moment, which means that there is still room for more. When reference was made to the fact that there are a lot of municipal decision-makers in this Chamber, then as municipal decision-makers we will also do our part, plan along the tracks and open up those new stops in order to gain more passenger share on the tracks — and so, the Greens, will also take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u117	Mr President! After listening to this debate, quite a few speeches have said that competition is OK, as long as it is not done in the wrong way, but very little has been said, which is then the right way to compete. The second thing that has come here as an alternative to the opposition is that it is not this government proposal but rather that we should invest more in railway capacity and equipment — but it is not obvious that these are not cross-subsidised, opposing objectives. As the Minister has said very well here, both of these can be implemented: We also need to increase railway capacity, both of which can be implemented simultaneously in the long term. And when we look at what happened during the last parliamentary term, the debt on our roads increased by 500 million, and now it has been caught by a billion this year — some 320 million of it goes to this track. Having listened to this debate, it must have occurred to more oppositions that there was perhaps a bit of a gap issue and that the government's line was excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u118	Mr President! This government model for competition is not suitable for sparsely populated Finland, as has been noted by many experts. This debate has also highlighted the fact that the bottleneck is indeed monorail and the poor condition of the tracks. In my opinion, Minister, you cannot hide behind a parliamentary working party here, you have a responsibility. You stopped commuting in Western Uusimaa, for example, by purchasing services, and now the situation is that since the beach is in such poor condition, commuter trains will no longer fit on that track. What do you say to the people of Western Uusimaa? On the other hand, you speak beautifully of train passengers, customers. Train traffic is for everyone, and now I am raising the issue of disabled rail users. What are you doing to improve accessibility? In the past, the conductors put the strips so that the wheelchair could get on the train. There has already been talk of buying a train ticket, and there is no wheelchair access to restaurant cars. How to improve train traffic
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u119	Mr President! There has been a great deal of doubt here about the adequacy and circulation of equipment. I think that this future vehicle company will have to do the same thing as the current VR: it recycles trains day and night, seeking those efficient alternatives. Well, that's the one business idea of the vehicle company with which it makes its profit and then keeps this ability to pay more. We can increase the number of cars, as I believe Mr Lehti here well described the situation, which will increase the capacity of the tracks. As has been said, there have already been 10% of them before, so of course we still have room for growth here. The situation in the provinces here is that at least where we are, there is room for rails, and it is probably possible to increase traffic across Finland in cross-border traffic. That this option, which is now being offered here, creates opportunities. In particular, I am warmed up by VR staff in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u120	Mr President! There has been a great deal of debate here today that this reform will lead to a reduction in ticket prices. Just out of interest as a customer googlet on October 6, how much does Onnibus cost from Imatra to Helsinki, cost 15 euros and by train the same 19 euros. I would ask the Minister how much tickets should cost and how much you think this reform will reduce. There are 1 billion repair debts on the track. Any player comes, it requires state compensation. So the ship and the tracks are the taxpayers' responsibility, why do profits go to companies? Would not fair obligations for investment and equal rights be the Finnish model? It is a little moving to believe that the opening of the tendering procedure is the answer to everything, even cross-border traffic, even though there are no tracks at the moment. Is there not a contradiction here that the same maintenance and maintenance that has operated on the free market, as is the case with the real estate investment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u121	Mr President! As Minister Berner said in his opening speech, the maintenance of the comprehensive rail network will continue to require public investment, which means that we have secured the continuation, and this government has significantly increased the budget for improving the condition of the network. The opposition knows this very well. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, where is this Finland going? The increase in the use of Finnish forests alone brings about 15 million mots of wood from forests to roads or tracks. Of course, not everything comes to train tracks, but it is a matter of millions more tons to carry. If we look at these developments, of course, when the state owns these companies, it will ensure that the social interest is realised and that more contributions are made to a mode of transport that is friendly to the environment and which offers security. Above all, when the condition of our roads deteriorates — it has been said that the condition of our roads is being reduced precisely because of heavy traffic — this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u122	Mr President! The representative, Mr Rossi, made a good speech here on where the monopoly leads and compared Helsinki-Oulu and Helsinki-Kuopio. I have to say that from Helsinki to Oulu and back you can get a completely different ticket price than from Helsinki to Kuopio and back. We have a report from the Regional Association on why this is happening, and then we discuss with Finnair how to get ticket prices down. Another thing that promotes private cars — which I think is 80% of passenger traffic — is that many trains are too slow, and when VR dropped ticket prices in 2016 and increased train speed, profitability immediately started to improve and passenger numbers increased. But at the moment, the filling rate for trains is only 40 percent, something must be done about this. It has been very well pointed out here many times at the mouth of the ministers that we need to raise the share of passenger transport from 5% to close to 10%, which is in Sweden. And it also requires investment in the network. This is what Mrs Wallin has done very well in the Section for Transport and Tourism on many occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u123	Mr. Speaker! There is a common understanding here that there is a need to move traffic onto the tracks, away from the air and off the road. And it does require both investment and increased competition and this kind of shaking, what has been seen in this debate. Two questions from this point of view along the Savo track: There is a very significant export business in Upper Savo, which inevitably requires a sufficient volume of rail transport at a sufficiently high frequency. If it does not exist, the traffic will inevitably be transferred to the roads. Is it possible that freight traffic will remain on track? Question number two: The Regional Unions of Eastern Finland have talked about the fact that Savo should be able to increase the speed of the track to the same level as it is on that western track. Quite a lift, which would also bring traffic, would shift traffic from road and air to rail. I understand that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u124	Mr President! The development of the company's services can well be done within the current company, and I think Finnair, which is a state-owned company in large part, is a great example of renewed services, a new concept. The total price for the State is interesting, as in three of these studies, the total price is negative. And when we look at the example of Sweden that has been here several times, we have had to increase purchasing traffic, which means that the State has had to pay more for the extra shifts of the customers. Is this what you're talking about? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u125	Mr President! Effective transport connections play a crucial role in how, for example, jobs can be created or entrepreneurship can be created in Finland, Finland as a whole, as the economy finally grows and employment improves. It is also worth noting that the operation of purchasing services and compulsory services in sparsely populated areas will not be jeopardised by this reform, on the contrary, the opportunities for increased services outside the main line will be further strengthened by new operators. I do wonder about some of the speeches here, although some of the representatives have a rather narrow picture of Finland. There is room for operators on the regional lines, and there is also a good chance of competition. An essential issue in the accessibility of the regions is improving travel speed, including the removal of dangerous level crossings from the Savo railway line. However, passenger transport has not yet reached the speeds to be an attraction. I'll ask the minister:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u126	Mr President! It is true that more traffic is suitable for regional lines and there should be more traffic, for example in the Province of Lapland. Can you imagine that the track ends at Kemijärvi and that, on the west side again, nothing goes but the ore track until Kolar and nothing else. Nothing goes into the Arctic Ocean. Night trains to Kemijärvi have been reduced. No matter how much it suits, welcome all the new entrepreneurs, but I'll tell you a little secret: In Lapland, the Old Province of Lapland, there are 175,000 inhabitants. 175,000 inhabitants, one quarter of what lives in Helsinki. Is it possible to build there? In what way does it add value to taking more trains there? Even if trains were to pass from morning to evening, there would be no more people there. There are 450,000 people in the county of Oulu, which means there is no more. So these realities should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u127	Mr President! There are a lot of comparisons here, for example with Sweden: there are two railway companies in northern Sweden, with 250,000 people, and they both happen to be Swedish railway companies and there are international connections. Here a message came from the left that why there is still no rail link in Finland to Sweden. Well, the same question I could throw to you, why didn't your Minister of Transport handle it? We are working all the time to ensure that this reform also gives Finland access to international rail links. And when the opposition has been concerned about the condition of our tracks: that is a real concern. But you've been worried about track capacity. During the last parliamentary term, an additional EUR 500 million came from the increase in the correction debt. However, during this parliamentary term we will be able to reduce this correction debt by more than EUR 300 million. It is important that we get more people on the track, it is a climate action, we get more trains on the move, we get more connections,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u128	I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Andersson, Mr plant, Mr Taimela and Mr Korhonen, and then we will go to the Minister's reply and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u129	Mr President! As I see it in this debate, so also the government parties admit that this passenger capacity will not be increased for congested connections in southern Finland, but since passenger capacity is apparently to be increased and the rail network is, what is it, the idea is that this additional capacity will come to the quiet connections between the provinces. Well, whether the operator is a state-owned company, a regional company or a private operator, then to create this traffic there will require more public funding. Indeed, the difference is that this state-owned company pays dividends directly to the State, while those private companies pay them to their private owners, if any profit comes from it, i.e. more euros for purchasing. Now, as I listened to the Minister’s reply as to where these additional euros came from in order to create this traffic, he said that by making purchasing traffic more efficient. Well, what could it be in this model other than, for example, trampling on staff terms or salaries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u130	Mr President! Minister of Transport Berner criticised the expert reports commissioned by the government itself as one-sided. What wonders us: what are the criteria for carrying out these studies and for monitoring the quality of their work if we can afford to ignore the hundreds of thousands of euros in decision-making? If I had made such an expensive unnecessary job in a civilian myself, the superior rooster would not have sung. Representative Kopra, the dividends you mentioned to the State of VR Group come from VR's securities and real estate investment activities. Profit for the main business after being plus minus zero. It is only to be wondered: why has VR invested significant sums in securities since 2009 and not in its business, i.e. the development of rail transport? And for Mrs Torniainen: you obviously have not read those government reports as carefully as the opposition has. That's where the concern for the loss of the property comes from.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u131	Mr President! At this final stage of the debate, at least to Mrs Torniainen and a few other colleagues, it is worth saying that the SDP's parliamentary group believes that the most important thing in this future development of rail transport is the customer itself, not this ideological competitive rage. As far as the Ramboll report is concerned, I made sure, Mr Berner, that the Ramboll report did not specifically deal with the effects of your model. The report simply assumes that in general, competitive tendering will increase traffic. Then, at this final stage, it is also good to mention the fact that the government has provided justification for this reform, which has appealed to this fourth railway package in the EU. I am simply quoting Yle’s news on 17 August, where the Government Counsellor of the Ministry of Transport simply says: “European legislation is not the reason why rail transport is being opened up to competition.”
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u132	Mr President! With regard to this issue of dividends, it is necessary to state that the State also has social objectives and, in no case, for all state companies, the primary objective is to maximise dividend income. To this end, there are special task companies with important societal functions, i.e. these strategic objectives, and in these companies the State’s ownership policy objectives are based on good overall social and economic results. As far as VR is concerned, I would venture to assess it in such a way that in the 2010s VR has made a very significant number of reforms, the most recent one being ticket and price reform 2016. I would also like to point out here that VR is not opposed to this competition, but it must of course be said that VR is happy to be involved in the preparation of this competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u133	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u134	Mr President! The decision of the Board of Directors is based on an overall assessment, all the studies made. It is clear that a project of this size will be investigated from different perspectives. Some of them are based precisely on what it means from VR’s point of view, how VR’s ownership and ownership value will be reduced. But that does not mean the same thing as how the property value of the State is reduced, they are not equal marks. Therefore, we cannot draw any conclusions from these various studies and their assumptions. They have all had different assumptions, and that has been important in this investigation. If you are familiar with the studies, you can see what their sources are, what they refer to, what the numbers are and what they are based on. Since then, it has been up to the government to carry out official work, analyse reports, draw conclusions from them and, of course, to take responsibility for them and, on the basis of this, to launch the work that is now being carried out in the working groups. But it is challenging to underestimate the work that has been done for a year and a half by drawing fast conclusions without being familiar with them. I think it's a shame. It has also often been argued that VR has been ranked as one of the most efficient companies with the RPI value of BCG. It takes into account what has been invested, what is the number of passengers, what is the railway capacity and what is the ability of the track. In addition, it also looks at the company, but the value of the company is only one small part of the ranking. It is precisely the way in which concessions are being prepared that we are trying to ensure that the national level of service is maintained. It is now being carried out in broad cooperation and the first versions and ideas of concessions will be presented tomorrow at the call of interest to the various actors. In what way has accessibility been taken into account: the Ministry of Transport and Communications has an accessibility action programme and the train fleet must be accessible in all procurements. The aim here is definitely to ensure that better solutions are created. It is clear that it is not possible to compare the opening up of rail transport competition or the strengthening of VR with Finnair in the same way. Finnair operates in a competitive market, VR does not operate in a competitive market. Furthermore, the overall impact has not been assessed in the same way in all these studies, and it is easy once again to draw figures out of the sleeve here and say that a dividend of 100 million will be lost when, in reality, we have been here for years now, when VR’s ability to pay dividends has been zero. It has been EUR 30 million on average over the last 10 years and, as Mr Kopra has pointed out here, the result of passenger transport has been EUR 16 million. It is a question of long-term development, where we need to see much further. It is by means of competitive tendering and by requiring service levels that purchasing and compulsory transport can be made more efficient. It has also started from the fact that it seeks to create conditions which are certainly not linked to the fact that staff conditions are in any way weaker, on the contrary. For example, when you look at Sweden, the pay level of train drivers has increased significantly and has also increased all the time. We have also taken note of and tried to take into account the fact that this is a long-term project that needs study, learning. This is why we start from a single set of competitions, after which the following entities will be built. The goal and will mode is that the passenger is the winner of all this development and work that achieves better service levels, more shifts, more reliability and more options. This is also the one where, in the end, these clarifications also end up. No one thinks the competition is bad, no one thinks any of the reports are bad. Even that conclusion should not be confused with the fact that some of these studies believe that from VR’s point of view it may not be the best solution, but it does not mean a citizen. Nor does it mean a state as a whole. Nor does it mean a passenger, but it means a company. Of course, those default values.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u135	And then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u136	Mr President! Opening up competition on the railways is not an end in itself, but it is an opportunity for better, more diversified services and also lower prices. What is important is that when competition is opened, it will also be opened in a controlled manner and with employees closely involved in this activity. This tendering process is also a process of several years, as has been heard. In its intermediate question, the opposition has gone against opening up rail competition in passenger transport, but when you hear the opposition's speeches, those arguments have been rather inconceivable. And I must say that it has actually come to the conclusion that there is no opposition to the competition, but only this one model, which the government is now proposing, is being opposed to. But there has also been no mention of what would be the model of opposition. The pattern of any opposition party parliamentary group has not been heard in this debate. As a counter-question to the opposition, how can we do so without changing VR's position in the way envisaged by the Ministry? What is the model with which the opposition would make changes to make rail transport more attractive?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u141	Mr President! The interlocutors are right to say that a well-functioning transport network is a fundamental prerequisite for citizens' mobility, housing and employment, as well as for the competitiveness of the business community. They are also right in saying that there is much to develop in our rail transport and that there has been little success in recent years. As a further reform, I myself would like to mention the digitisation of the ticket system. In the spring, the Government made a decision to open passenger rail transport to competition, and I think that was the right decision. In addition to Luxembourg and Ireland, Finland is the only EU country where there is only one operator in rail passenger transport. In passenger traffic, it is difficult to justify the continuation of VR’s monopoly. Competition usually improves the service. This has happened to bus traffic, for example. The number of passenger traffic on certain lines is difficult to determine, as there are not always even conductors to check the tickets and at the same time to determine the number of passengers. You can also buy a ticket at a discount for a further trip than you really need. Statistics at VR are also very uncertain at the moment. This is well reflected, for example, in the incorrect statistics on the section of the track between Joensuu and Nurmes. There is experience from the world in competitive tendering of the railway network. Overall, the international experience of opening up competition has been positive. In Sweden, for example, competitive tendering reduced the need for State aid from 10% to 32% in the first competitions, and in the UK, the popularity of train travel has increased considerably since the tendering of transport. Why, then, in Finland, too, would it be a failure, as the interjectors doubt? The opening up of competition will also promote competition in ticket prices and reduce the costs of freight transport in the event of easier access to equipment. On the basis of a study carried out by the international design and consultancy company Ramboll, the opening-up of competition is clearly to be welcomed. It is clear, of course, that opening up competition requires the creation of fair and competitive conditions on the rail market. The starting point for our network is already a correction debt of around EUR 1 billion, resulting in faults and disruptions causing the majority of passenger traffic delays. Delays due to track maintenance are alarmingly increasing and will soon be half of all the reasons for long-distance train delays. The faults of the train’s traffic control equipment to ensure safe running are a good expression of this infrastructure repair debt. For example, the short section between Kite and Joensuu still has three decelerations due to the condition of the track. Between Joensuu and Kouvola, trains are regularly delayed, which means that they have already become accustomed to it. At the moment, this section of the track also has bad bridges, and there is no green light on the signal at Luumäe, so trains are driven past the disturbance section one by one at a speed of 50 km/h. At the Simpelee station, the signal is red. These are individual problems at the moment, to name but a few. Fortunately, the automatic access control system informs the train driver when to slow down and at what speed. All you have to do is hope it continues to play. It is clear that the conditions of competition must also apply to the coverage of rail transport. This will ensure traffic throughout Finland in the future. I myself would like to have a train connection to Ilomants as well. There was at least one passenger train to Ilomant last summer, and I was on it. It was an old steam-powered train, and the atmosphere was quite tight. There were about 500 people in two cars. Mr President! At the moment, VR’s situation is still so bad that I should take my own old Volkkari to work between Kite and Helsinki. I believe that, with the tendering of the railways, this too will be put right, and I will be able to take the train in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u142	Mr President! On behalf of the Group of the Finns Party, I would like to repeat and emphasise what we have been through in our group statement. In general, the Finns themselves do not oppose competition. After all, here we were thrown from the right side of the Chamber and from the government parties at some point, that there is some ideological opposition here, and I would like to remind you of this. We have had concerns about the status of the staff and also about our national property. It is also about security of supply. Of course, VR is a company we all know, and we are confident that the train will at least be accessible if it is otherwise. We have also had concerns about what happens with these dividends in the sense that the money that we people put on our tickets is not slowly being poured into foreign companies. I think it is a very important question that our money should run here in Finland, that there will be no such situation again, that we will find that we are paying a foreign company that has won the competition. There's always that downside. Mr Torniainen and Mr Salmon pointed out that it was a bit like an unheard-of intermission. We are not in the government, we are not getting any information. I think this debate has been very valuable, and Mr Berner has been answering questions here for two hours. Still, some of the things are still meditating on. The Prime Minister briefly stated that there will of course be no competition on the wages of the railway people, and this was good information, for example. I don't think it's worth beinglittled at all. This will not come as a government proposal in the Chamber, and we will never be able to discuss this at any time. This is really important. This is not just a one-hitting competition, it is a matter of real importance. The group statement of the Coalition Party drew attention to such a thing when it was stated that the world and transport are changing, whether we like it or not. Of course it will change and the world will change, but of course we are sitting here in Parliament for that, so that we can also define how it will change. It's just not one of those self-movement things. To that end, we are here to influence how and in what way and in what timetable. In my own speeches, I said that I am still concerned about the way in which we would get more tracks. I live in Uusimaa, and it's really crowded in here. And then, in fact, I thought that in some speeches, especially those from the centre, when they said that it was quieter in the rural communities where they came from, why not start the bidding there, the experiment of how it goes. Why do we start it here where it's already really crowded? It's kind of distracting me. It reminds me a little of the debate today, when I listened to this, of our issue of social security, which fell on the Constitutional Committee in relation to its compulsory company. Which means there's never been a choice between this whole corporateization thing. After all, this is not going anywhere now, because it goes ahead with the government's decisions, but perhaps we should think about that too. For example, Mrs Torniainen asked about these different models, what could be. We in the Finns Party wonder whether this form of incorporation is absolutely necessary, what other ideas it has come up with along the way, whether it would have been possible to try out some kind of service contracts, use them without being incorporated, and how this optimized concessions, competitive know-how and so on — it is a difficult question. I often find that even in municipalities we have problems when the tendering agreements, sanctions, late payments are wrong. It's really hard, that world of competition, and now that we don't have any law here, we don't get to look at them at all. You have a great responsibility as a chest guard here. This has been very important. I am still not convinced of this at all. I hope to have more answers. I hope that in future, when we talk about the opposition — there are six of us — remember little about how people speak differently. It is a terrible pity that we say it and the opposition say it, but we all have a few points of our own. However, the government often has one line in common, the government's proposals or, for example, this. I'd feel more comfortable somehow. There's a feeling that you've been listening to who's talking at any time. As I once said before, we're not one lump. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u144	Mr President! The Government paralysed and weakened rail traffic in the whole of Finland by cutting the purchase traffic of trains by EUR 15 million last year. Since then, partial repairs have been carried out, but permanent damage to the residents was caused in relation to the Coastal Track of Uusimaa. Those who live along the line in Siuntio and Inkoo will no longer be able to travel by train as before, when there were several shifts every day. Thanks to the activity of municipalities and HSL, a couple of train crews were set up on the track, but the service level has collapsed and train schedules are challenging for families, employees, schoolchildren and students. No bus connection replaces the speed and streamlinedness of the train. On the contrary, the growing Helsinki region needs new commuter trains, not qualifiers. There is only one track at the beach track and it is usually reserved for the fast Turku train. The poor condition of the track is also a bottleneck for track capacity. The poor condition of the tracks reduces traffic opportunities throughout Finland. The track repair debt is EUR 1 billion. Track repair and construction must be speeded up so that climate change can be combated more effectively and people's daily journeys are smooth. In order to secure rail traffic on the shore line, a broad development programme for the coastal line capacity and safety and control system is needed. This means better railway capacity between Pasila and the centre of Helsinki, an urban track to Espoo, an additional track between Espoo and Kirkkonummi, and more train meeting points between Kirkkonummi and Turku. Uusimaa has a lot of needs to improve rail transport. At the moment, only a charming museum train goes to Porvoo a few times in the summer. There is also a need for new rail lines for Eastern Uusimaa, where it will certainly make it easier to use and renovate the old rail bed for passenger transport. The electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track, on the other hand, is a project that promotes the mobility of residents, the transport of businesses, planning and exports. The electrification must proceed from plan to action. An important theme of this interim issue is the government's absurd plan to open up the whole country's train traffic to competition and to break VR to pieces. It's our national property. The government claims that the EU requires competitive rail transport, but forgets that there is a completely different market in Central Europe than we do. Finland is a sparsely populated, large country. Sirpa Pietikäinen, the MEP, has estimated that Finland has an opportunity to avoid competitive tendering. We can take account of the structural and geographical characteristics of the market and of the rail network. Many experts are critical of the government’s plans and, in particular, of the model of opening up competitive tendering in a one-off pace everywhere. It has been mentioned that the government is moving the state monopoly into regional monopolies. It does not bring cost-effectiveness, quality or high service levels. It requires sufficient shifts and connections between different cities and municipalities, as well as low ticket prices. The quality and availability of rail transport depends mainly on the amounts invested in it. The costs are so much higher than the ticket receipts that simply opening up the competition will not increase the number of trains. In Sweden, for example, the counties spend ten times as much money on rail transport compared to the Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communications. Finally, I would like to raise the issue of the rights of disabled people in rail transport. I expect the government to take action to improve the accessibility of rail transport. Access to commuter trains must also be secured for everyone. There are no conductors in commuter traffic that used to set a ramp at the door of the train. There are shortcomings in the accessibility of long-distance restaurant cars when the restaurant part is often not accessible. So the disabled cannot be in a restaurant car with their traveling companions. In addition, there is also a ticket reform that uses ticket machines, where blind people cannot buy a ticket and cannot be reached to buy a ticket from a wheelchair. I expect the government to address these accessibility issues. Public transport is a service for residents, and especially in a country such as Finland with long distances
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u145	Mr President! Finland's preparation for sale continues. This time it's train traffic. I've already seen this on the service level. Ticket sales in physical form are disappearing folklore. The customers exorcise VR's digital ticket reform and the difficulty of booking a seat. You can only imagine how grandmothers and grandpas who live without a computer will be able to travel by train in the future. On the commuter train, the conductor no longer sells the ticket, but he'll drive off the train if he can't find the ticket. If VR acts as a model for the digitalisation of traffic, we are on a dark road. Government plans to break up VR and free up competition mean that Southern Finland and the HSL region will be teeming with private companies that peel off their creams. VR pushes the unprofitable outposts into the taxpayer's loss. You just wonder what the government's trying to do. The EU is bowed down and bowed down as deeply as possible. At the same time, people turn their backs on their own people. After all, there will be no real competition on the routes. VR’s monopoly will change to a regional monopoly. In the future, the customer will not be able to choose between the rail traffic of more than one company, but will use what he is capable of. What benefits does such competition bring to the customer? There will be no need to lower ticket prices. What interests does the company have in developing transport services when everyone has the same equipment and tracks? It is likely that all service will be reduced to a minimum in order to leave as much plus in the company's balance sheet as possible. All in all, the equation is strange: the government promises customers cheaper tickets and more connections with the reform. On the other hand, commitment to international climate and environmental agreements is very likely to mean an increase in electricity prices and rising costs for rail transport as well. It seems that the reform takes on all the negative aspects of the opening-up of competition but also leaves the negative aspects of public service. Mr President! In addition to Sweden, Britain is regarded as a successful country in terms of tendering and increasing the number of passengers. In reality, Britain was a very far-reaching privatisation in which the tracks were privatised and taken back when problems arose. Fortunately, however, we may not be going down this road. Sweden’s success has been due to significant investments in infrastructure and high-quality and increased fleet of competitors. The Swedish model is otherwise different from the Government's plan: in the Finnish model, competition will not be transparent, but may include purchasing and obligation traffic. If, in addition to a productive route, there is an obligation to maintain silent and unprofitable routes, an additional tax will be imposed on users of virtually popular routes to maintain silent routes. The Finns of Peru assume that mobility must be equal to citizens and that the vitality of the countryside is adhered to. This reform will not do so. Mr President! Public speculation has also been expressed about the so-called Swiss model. Switzerland, however, has the difference that it does not have to comply with EU rules. Only Swiss companies will be allowed to take part in the competition there. In Finland, the infrastructure will be opened for foreign capital use and incomes will flow out of the country. As long as Finland is an EU Member State, we have a reduced toolbox in use. By the way, Switzerland is not a model, because it has the highest ticket prices in Europe. At this rate, Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u146	Mr President! Parliament's debate on rail transport and its development is very interesting. It seems that the opposition, with such a broad understanding, is looking against this in some way and the government is supporting the opening-up of competition in rail transport, passenger transport. The paradox here is, of course, that the SDP is opposed to this as long as it is not itself in the government and the next government, sometimes if this happens — and I am sure this is what happens in political history — it will be re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u151	At this point, we'll take Minister Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u152	Mr President! I have to leave this Chamber myself, and at this stage I would like to thank all the representatives for the discussions and also for the lunches from now on, for the comments and perspectives that will certainly be able to be used in the work of future working groups and also in the preparation process. This is a continuous project over the parliamentary and government term, and this will require a great deal of common effort between you and all of us. Our goal is to ensure that the passenger share of trains increases and that the train as a mode of transport reaches a higher share in Finland. This also needs investment, we are well aware of that, but at the same time it also requires a bold front to reform and to ensure that solutions are also made that allow innovation, the development of services and, at the same time, the promotion of the transport system as a whole. — Thank you, and thank you for your points of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u153	Mr President! The debate in this Chamber has made it very clear that there is no opposition to competition. When competition takes place on a sound basis, it improves services and lowers the price. This, on the other hand, brings direct economic benefits to consumers when properly implemented. In addition, opening up competition to taxpayers brings transparency and cost-effectiveness. In fact, it seems more important for the opposition to ensure that the State monopoly has the ability to pay dividends to the state treasury than to develop services that people need. What is clear, however, is that we cannot continue the current process of rail decline. We are forced to reform in such a way as to ensure that the network is maintained and that traffic is maintained. This opening-up of competition has raised many concerns here. Among other things, there has been talk of the end of rail transport in rural areas, the introduction of cream peelers into the market and so on. The truth is, however, that the purchase and obligation traffic will continue to be ensured by including conditions for the coverage of rail transport in the tendering process. This is precisely possible when competitive tendering is carried out. The regional needs of the regions will also be taken into account in the tendering process, as the regions themselves are involved in the preparation process. Preparations have also been criticised in many speeches. I can tell you that the preparatory work has been carried out in close consultation with existing research literature and, for example, with the OECD and the European Commission's studies and international experience of opening up competition, including the experience of Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK. So this preparation has been carefully prepared. That criticism has apparently mainly come from the fact that some of the speakers do not think that the right solution has been found. As I have already said, the government's aim has been to look long into the future and to respond to the sustainability problems of public finances which have accumulated over a long period of time when reforms have not been carried out in due course. Opening up rail transport to competition is part of this refurbishment of Finland, and without this reform, the development of Finnish rail transport will come to an end. When there is no more investment in the tracks, there will then be no more people on the trains, and, as has been said here, we have lost passengers, considering that in 2016 the level was lower than it was in 2008.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u156	Mr President! The SDP supports the objective of increasing rail transport and achieving the 2030 climate targets as part of rail transport. We also see rail as a very important part of the MAL solution. The SDP is not against competition but against poor corporate governance, and the SDP has its own model, which is what a number of representatives have been asking for on behalf of the government — and as has been said many times in this debate. In other words, the SDP believes that the experience of HSL’s competitive tendering is first considered and used, that HSL has 50 % of its own fleet, and that this will also be taken into account when opening up competition. Secondly, buying traffic will be extended to competitive tendering in the local transport area and the transfer of new equipment to the special purpose vehicle in the light of needs in the 2020s. Thirdly, as companies develop, experience can be used to broaden the scope of opening up competition in long-distance transport. The fourth railway package in the EU does not require ideologically all-open operations for the company and competition immediately. Government Counsellor Thorström of the Ministry of Transport says: "EU legislation allows for considerable transition periods and does not require urgent action."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u159	Mr President! This debate at least gave me the impression that, apart from the Left Alliance, all parties in this Chamber are in fact in favour of some form of increased competition in our rail transport. But now that it is being done, the criticism is that it is wrong. [Heckling] In any case, the most important thing is, of course, how we can get more trains on the track, how we can get more people on trains and how we can get more train shifts and connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u160	Mr President! The government's logic is age-old, the same formula and has been tested and found to be bad: sell or otherwise hand over the state's core activities or property to private individuals, and after this act it is stated that it was bad — as happened, for example, in the sale of electricity and information networks and in the decision of the Vanhanen Government to sell the fertilizer company Kemira to Norwegians. I would at least understand in some way the idea of competition if we had two or three tracks all over the place, but when there is almost always only one track, then there will be a monopoly for the new operator. What kind of freedom of choice will citizens have in this way, and with what logic would the service improve or ticket prices decrease? Road transport is one thing when buses from different companies can travel on roads at the same time. Then you can compete with prices and customer service. The Government has planned to make VR’s equipment available to private companies. What is the market economy in which an entrepreneur does not have to invest in his own equipment and a company already operating in the sector is forced to make its equipment available to a new operator? I think it sounds unfair, you could even say, robbery. How do you in the government even imagine that you would have the right to tear apart the wealth accumulated by the Finnish people in the course of 100 years? Let anyone who wants to go into the business buy their own locomotives and cars. VR's equipment is VR's, and that's how it's gonna stay. What other core activities of our society does this government still want to give to companies? Hmmm, social and health care, postal services, employment services? Is there any air in Finland that is owned by a company? Does the government not believe that the state should be strong and make sure that everywhere in Finland you can live, live, work and take a train? Do you think companies are interested in coming to our sparsely populated areas where there are fewer train passengers? In Finland, there are profitable and less profitable routes. Is it the government budget that you're looking for money so that, in our sparsely populated areas, trains will continue to travel? I do not think that money will be found when we have not found enough, there has been a reduction in purchasing traffic and trains will no longer stop at the stations of small towns, as was the case with us at Haukivuori in Southern Savo. [The President knocks ] Well, these new VR competitors would then drive the state railways, VR equipment — and you in the government think that this is where the sky will open up. By dumping employees' wages, you thought you'd lower the price of tickets? This kind of thinking would not surprise me, since this has been the policy of the Sipilä government: to force wage earners into the heat that was used to reduce wages, to drive the state company Post into cheaper and worse contracts, and to reduce the purchasing power of ordinary people all the time. Mr President! According to the Directive on the approval of train drivers driving EU locomotives and trains, Member States are required to take the necessary measures to ensure that the railway undertaking or infrastructure manager does not benefit unduly from the driver training costs paid by another railway undertaking or infrastructure manager if the driver moves to another railway undertaking or infrastructure manager. How, then, is the government now thinking of taking care of this law? Current railway professionals are trained by VR. Are you going to take this training for drivers in the railway sector under the authority of the Ministry of Education and train railway professionals, as in other sectors, with the training of professionals, with the help of society? Now the training costs VR, and it's not cheap. This differs from other vocational training in:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u161	Mr President! This debate on the interim issue has been strange in its own way. There are times when it seems that this intermediate issue should not have been raised at all when there is almost agreement in the Chamber that the use of the network needs to be made more efficient and improved. But it all goes wrong: again it was a so - called misfire. But seriously: to the previous speaker, Mr Taavitsäinen, you might say that it is not worth painting such bogeymen on the walls when they do not exist here either. However, the cold fact is that, in order to get the network and the economy in this country, both of them, more positive action, more work, more economic growth must also have new prospects for the use of the network. However, it is a fact that VR’s assets, in this case the State’s assets, the rail network, will remain and other assets will remain State-owned through the company. They are not for sale and they are not for sale; it is worth remembering at the outset before going elsewhere to justify it. Everyone knows that the condition of the network requires work. It is not the best possible at the moment, as we all know. But there has already been a change, Mr President: during this parliamentary term, hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on the renovation of basic management and basic management, and the result is slowly beginning to appear. But it is quite clear that when one of the ten years has gone in the wrong direction, the money has been reduced all the time, so now that the sled has turned for the better, it will not be fixed in a year, of course, nor in two. At the same time, we must continue for about five years, and then we will find a situation in which these care waste has been disposed of — including the lower road network. [Interjection] As Minister Berner said in his opening speech, maintaining a comprehensive network will continue to require public investment. That is quite clear. And, as I understand it, Minister Berner's message on this matter became quite clear to Parliament: the state will not leave the rail network to decay, but will ensure that we get it in order, in an ever better condition and in an ever better use. In view of the state of the environment, it is absolutely essential that rail transport, the operation of trains and goods carried on iron wheels, be more and more, and that traffic pressure is being reduced precisely from the road network, because repairing the road network, repairing huge damage there, is costing a lot of money. It is also questionable from the point of view of road safety when heavy trucks continue to run along our roads, causing dangerous situations. Heavy traffic belongs to steel, iron wheels and should increasingly belong to inland waterway transport, but it has been so thoroughly neglected in this country that I will tell its story some other time, unfortunately there is no time for that now. Of course, this development of the network involves the full involvement of both the employees and the management of the State Railways, and there is no conspiracy in this matter, but there has been transparent action with respect for all parties involved. In this situation, there is no alternative for us to remain in this development work as if we were in a situation of keeping everything the same and everything is fine. That is not the case at all. As Minister Berner said, the rail network will be developed and, in my own opinion, I hope that the creation and construction of a rail link to the Arctic Ocean will be taken seriously and that the European Union's TEN network money will be applied for in such a way as to open up a new transport route, because it is clear that the new transport route will also bring new activity to the northern economy, where, among other things, the mining industry will grow at a fierce pace. From the point of view of climate objectives, this issue is extremely important and I hope that it will be successful and that there will be more use for the railways – then VR will remain, as we know, state ownership will remain, and this equipment and rail network will be made available to the best possible extent. There is so little traffic in the countryside that VR has maintained that it is not worth making a fuss about now that it does not exist. If anything comes in, it's always a win.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u162	Mr President! After all, today there has been a colorful debate on VR and rail transport and its future in the form of a mid-term debate, and that is a good thing. One big issue has arisen in the debate is whether the government has invested enough money in infrastructure in the future and how much money will be available for it. I think that this government has made excellent progress with regard to both rail and road transport, and thank you to the government for that. This reform, which is now starting to take place, is a multi-annual project, and this will not be in the final stages until 2026. Whether it is quick or slow to prepare and move things forward, everyone can conclude. I personally regard this as a well-thought-out and well-prepared project, which, together with the various actors, is being taken forward. However, I believe that all competition here has received a very unanimous response. As such, there has been little opposition here to competitive tendering for rail transport. It just seems that the way in which this matter is taken forward has been wrong. VR’s ability to pay dividends and whether it is important has also been highlighted. I am amazed at the opposition's attitude as to how important VR's ability to pay dividends is. It should be remembered that the last two years' dividend payments give a slightly distorted picture of VR Group's ability and state of payment. Most of the result consists of activities other than VR, such as freight transport and railway construction, and are in sectors where VR operates in a competitive environment and is nevertheless able to achieve a good result, which has been suspected many times — that if you go to competitive tendering in rail transport, you would not be able to achieve results. VR’s ability to pay dividends has varied significantly. In 2010-2013, VR did not pay any dividends, and in 2015 it was then the peak year, i.e. the best dividends for 20 years. On the other hand, VR’s turnover has fallen sharply, so good dividend payment has been the result of efficiency measures, and redundancies, among others, have been targeted, and I personally find it a somewhat questionable way of raising the ability to pay dividends, which is very important here in the opposition’s speeches. I therefore find it somewhat contradictory that when workers are made redundant, the ability to pay dividends will then be improved, and this has been a good VR policy for the opposition. There is also a great deal of concern about the regions that there is no room for rail traffic in the provinces. I believe that there is room on the tracks, at least in my own province of Kymenlaakso, in south-eastern Finland, in Etelä-Savo. It is clear that the rail infrastructure must be in a condition where traffic can be increased, but, as has already been said here in the Minister's speech, VR has already reduced transport by 10% by its own efforts, and at least 10% is an opportunity for growth. There has also been a debate on this fourth railway package in the EU, where opening up competition is the starting point and not the competition itself, and it is important to note that this will now enable competition to be opened around Finland. Time will then show how much of that private operator is going to be there for rail transport. In Finland, I think that this concession model is a very good way of doing this tendering. Then all the operators in the sector will have high-quality and good equipment available, and the vehicle company will manage the condition and maintenance of the equipment, and therefore the vehicle company will also do a good job in its own way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u163	Mr President! Today’s local news was that trains between Kotka and Kouvola are being replaced by buses. It was good to start today's mid-term debate. Well, it's because of the refurbishment of the track, but this isn't exactly the first and probably not the last time. The longer this debate on the interim issue has taken place today, I have said that there is an increasing need for it. Even earlier, when an intermediate question was raised about the abolition of train services, improvements were made, that is, the government changed its line. I hope that, even after this interim issue, the government will change its course, and that is the purpose of the interim issues: if the government does not fall completely, then there will be more sensible decisions. There have been three different aspects. The first aspect is the form of competitive tendering and criticism of its implementation; the second aspect is the current problems of VR’s operations, both in ticket sales and in other areas, and the third aspect is state ownership and state ownership control. Here's a few words. There is no way I can understand the idea that we have a state-owned company whose ownership control is not being interfered with by the Minister, so that the ticket sales or the stations that are being closed, or the purchase traffic that is being stopped, are suddenly just things that have been done outside the Minister's office. If the minister wants to direct the owner, he will certainly also be able to retaliate companies for the provision of services. That is why I do not believe that only if we have a competitive service could the service be improved, since previous versions of, for example, the flexible pricing of VR tickets and others have been made within the current company model. Three of the four studies, which have been made in this context, give a striking result that this is negative to the State in terms of the economy as a whole. And what's the government doing? Takes the one that is the lightest report that has yet to be made with internal arrangements and believes that everything will get better when it is injected. And the result of these three studies is that the services do not improve, they cost the state more, possibly more to the customers, and the dividend yield decreases. The fourth rail package will not force this arrangement or this timetable, and it may be that we will no longer be able to make the right competitive tendering if this model is now completed. Ownership guidance could have been done better in this tendering case, but also in the operations of the current company. We have examples of competitive tendering, and in Britain, for example, the whole system went down, not now, but it got worse, and in the regions where it improved, the price went up. In Sweden, the state has had to spend more and more money on purchasing services. So for the state it has become more expensive, but for the customers it has improved. But we must also be prepared for this in Finland, that it will cost the state more. Is there room for more traffic in there? There is a very different view of this. Fewerly populated areas are likely to fit, but not on the railway of the capital region. More trains and locomotives are needed if they are to be used in two different ways. Now that there are the same locomotives for combined use in both passenger and freight transport, if they are to be differentiated, it requires a different approach from the vehicle company, plus that new ones are needed. And I do not know whether it is fair to open a competition so that others give up equipment and some will use it. I don't believe in organizing the provinces. We have seen what it means to support regional air transport, and especially since in the future the provinces will be — when they are or if they are — generally covered by their budget, it is difficult to see how more funding would be needed for rail transport from there within the social welfare budget or the employment budget, because at least at the moment there will be no such separate funding for the regions. So let us make a new division of the market at this point. There is no desire to retain the value of state-owned companies or to guarantee dividends. I have one wish: when will the Kouvola-Lappeenranta train come? A wish like this came from a text message. And the second wish: when comes the beach track from here East of Helsinki, not just west?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u164	Mr President! The confusion between the representative of Kulmun and many other representatives of the government party about how, for example, the Greens can be involved in the interplay, even though we are not always opposed to competition for rail transport everywhere and in all circumstances, tells a lot about the relationship of this government to competition. Competition is the absolute value of the government parties as Harry Potter's magic wand, that by swinging everything becomes good — competition. [ The speaker swings his hand]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u165	Mr President! I will continue where I have just left off, that is, this train driver training, which is currently in the railway sector, so that we do not have it in secondary vocational schools, but that is training paid by VR and ordered by VR, and the EU directive says that if the driver then moves to another railway undertaking, then the State must ensure that this other operator does not receive unjustified benefits from the driver training costs paid by that other operator. It would be good to know if the government is now going to change this system. Of course, I would like us to train railway professionals at second level, just as all other professionals in Finland are trained by society. If we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, it is essential that we build more shortcuts, more double and triple tracks and new connections and speed up and improve our existing rail tracks and yards — there are ten important yards that need immediate repair — and then train these railway professionals. Of course, emission reductions cost money, but they cannot be passed on to future generations; we must act now, and the next few years will be very critical. So we need to build tracks and owner-direct VR to create a good customer experience and new business, as an example in a couple of weeks, even though a one-kilometre container train from Kouvola is going to China, and our Finnish products are going to the Chinese market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u166	Mr President! One more important point was not made on this issue, and that is why I asked for another floor. The fact that the rail network and the transport network in general are national property means that we need to hold tight, that is clear. And with regard to the further use and additional use of the network used by VR, it does require an attitude that is genuinely giving this country opportunities for more than just developing the rapid local traffic in the capital region and then everything else is side-by-side. Let me give you an example. In 2010, VR Cargo announced that Outokumpu The position of Sysmäjärvi will be converted into a wood loading platform instead of a normal place of employment. In other words, it would be a change which would no longer have allowed the item to be processed on the site. Well, what would that have meant? It would have meant this: from the puncture track at the Sysmäjärvi station, the local Piippo Oyj factory — which produces a huge amount of different types of polyethylene-produced material, mainly nets and strings, including — the material goes all the way to Australia, where the hay is piled on that network. This factory will supply all the networks there. It's almost monopolistic when it gets it. They have such fine systems with which they have organized this production and, above all, the inventions they have made. VR Gargo decided to end this traffic when the raw material comes from Kazakhstan as a granulate in sacks and then it is processed at the factory in question and the finished product is put back on the railway wagon and it goes back to Niirala, where it crosses the border and then goes towards the market. This decision by VR would have ended this position and the big factory would have been in trouble, in practice in overwhelming difficulties. It appears that the persons concerned by VR were meant to shut down the plant and move it elsewhere from Outokumpu. This is an example, which is why we need to develop the transport network and the rail network in this country: it cannot be used as an instrument of regional policy. This incident took place in 2010, and I followed it with great excitement and almost shocked that it is possible, in this way, to operate in a state-owned company — one small factory, an extremely important, almost 100 jobs for the locality, can a state-owned company do this? The same goes for the rest of the Ilomant track. Unfortunately, the government did not give money from the budget. The first part of the wooden track has been repaired, the remaining part of the 40 km is still waiting for funding, although it has been decided under the Vanhanen 2nd Board that this section of the track will be repaired because it is important for Finnish wood transport. It is also today a functioning track for which additional use has been planned in the future. I do believe that it will one day be repaired, and it must be repaired, because if we really want more wood as raw material for this country's industry in its various forms, we will have to put that track and many other tracks in order. And the position in this Finnish society must be changed. It cannot be that some VR management dictates where you can transport wood or where you can carry all your items. Yes, the starting point must be that the industry is being served — and not that when, for example, a steel factory in Kitee goes to a local steel production plant that produces wood handling equipment in various forms and supplies them around the world, for example, there has been a huge dispute about whether a couple of wagons can now be pushed out of that yard into the yard of the factory in question or not. That's a huge cat tail twist about a jugular thing. It should be taken for granted that when you have goods going to Russia, you can pack it directly on VR's ride and take it across the border to and from Russia in the cheapest and best way possible for the environment. There must be a debate about whether one should be made when a master of VR has decided not to move the wagons over. It's just like this, Congressman Taimela, even though you're blowing in there. This is terrible. I agree with you, I was shocked myself. This is an absolutely shocking policy if we continue to do so. I mean, the company has to... This has happened years ago, this first one happened in 2010. Berner wasn't even a minister back then. He was working for himself back then. But I hope that this will change the attitude. All of us Finns, too, need to change the attitude that the service for companies works, transport is offered and carried out as well as possible for Finland's natural, economic and business interests. This is why we need to get a little more life into this system. The procedure of suddenly ending the railway station so that it cannot be transported and the company is in trouble is not normal. So is this Kite's job: if you put it on
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u167	Mr President! With a great deal of doubt about the adequacy of VR’s equipment in this future possible situation, VR has already been equipped with new electric locomotives, as demonstrated in today’s debate. Currently the total number of electric locomotives is 166 and when in the future all stores will come and these options will be used, to which VR has already committed itself, then the number of electric locomotives is 223, which means that this will then make it much better for this kind of recycling, competitive tendering and also the use of different companies, it will give equal opportunities then. There is a great deal of demand here that entrepreneurs go out and buy a locomotive first and then try to compete. For example, when I am an entrepreneur in the passenger transport sector, this future situation would enable me to go into the personal business in Kymenlaakso or South-East Finland: I would rent a locomotive from the vehicle company and then ask myself whether it is a profitable business or not. This is the idea, and there may indeed be more entrepreneurs on the tracks then watching. This would be one of the options for getting a passenger train connection between Kouvola and Lappeenranta that would stop at Taavet station, where at the moment VR does not want to stop, because they think it is too busy to stop at the station from Helsinki to Joensuu, but rather give it to the estuaries 3 minutes later. This is a good argument, but the question of whether there is a demand for it, the market will then — not between all of us. But this new situation allows for such an effort.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u168	Mr President! Indeed, today there has been a long mid-term debate on the current state and future of rail transport. The subject is so important that it is still good to continue. The operation of rail transport and VR must be further developed, which is quite clear. Now that VR’s Board of Directors has been chaired by Ville Tavio, the representative of the Finns, during which time VR’s ticket prices have already decreased significantly and thus the number of passengers has increased. It has been in the interests of everyone and this good development should be continued by VR. However, the government has chosen another way. In fact, Minister Berner and the entire government are moving trains to a vehicle company to be set up, from which private companies could then rent them in the future. At least I do not know that such a vehicle model exists elsewhere in Europe. In Norway it appears to have been considered, but it is unlikely that it will be used. One wonders what the benefits of opening up competition would be with this proposed model if no new investment were made. In particular, in sparsely populated areas, train services would hardly increase, and these busiest routes in Southern Finland should primarily invest in the worst bottlenecks on the railway lines, and only then would it be possible to pursue a situation where there would be genuinely competing companies in the same area. That would be a real market economy. Even the consulting companies that have clarified the matter do not give clean papers on this plan, as has been heard many times here, and unfortunately not all these assessments are public in all respects. Mr President! There is much room for improvement in VR's operations, but in international comparison Finland's rail system remains, however,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u169	Mr President! All the unfortunate things that have been raised here about VR's activities are tolerating its criticism. As a hundred people, we cannot be very happy that we have not even been able to try it, even though the 2011 Government negotiations indicated that local transport could be developed. We hundreds of people had high expectations about a few municipalities, the suburbs, where rail traffic goes through the city centre. Not only was it possible to find the will that the train from Pori stopped in Ulvila, Nakkila, Harjavalta and Kokemäki. I do not believe that this new competitive situation will enable the regions to develop this transport without having to cooperate so that the passenger train, the long-distance train, from us to Tampere, will be sent from Pori to Helsinki. If these cannot be developed together, there can be no competitive situation in which this commuter service could be profitable. It should definitely be done that there would then be one station in Kokemäki where the so-called Pendolino from Pori could stop at Kokemäki and take these people from the nearby villages and possibly people from Rauma along with them, and thus combine them. Unfortunately, this management of the whole has been the fact that there has been a focus on passenger traffic and that it has also been forgotten that there is a great deal of heavy traffic in the industrial area of Satakunta, which cannot all be transported at night. There's a lot of anxiety there, even though there's plenty of space to run. - But if I continue... [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : The representative may move to the speaking room. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I took up Mr Hoskonen's speech in which you raised the problems you have had there. How, then, do you see, as a representative of the government party, that power always gives you the opportunity to act and no decisions fall from any heaven, but are always the work of the human hands? When the State owns 100% of VR and we have a Minister of Ownership, who will probably have been the Prime Minister when this is your point of view, why does the State not use the voice of the owner? Why? I dug up who's on VR's board of directors, and these are completely unknown names. This is Chairman Hannu Syrjänen, then Senior Engineer Heikki Allonen, CEO Roberto Lencioni and Master of Science in Business Tuija Soanjärvi, Kirsi Sormunen and Maija Strandberg. Names I don't know. Do you think they are listening to this debate that we have had today so that they can receive this message and improve VR's operations? Or should the State Minister of Corporate Governance then exchange board members at the general meeting and even if MPs should be put there so that the company will start serving the people? In other words, power always gives us the opportunity to act, and we should not feel that we are outsiders and that there is nothing we can do about it. You can do this if you have the will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u173	This is Mr Hoskose's speech right after Mr Pakkanen, which is why we are going in this order as requested. First of all, Mr Pakkanen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u174	Mr President! I thought I heard that a representative of the opposition was already demanding the resignation of the VR government. That's not exactly where I'm going. There has been a proper and good discussion here. There were a few familiar names at least for me in that government, and hopefully they will listen to this conversation. Today VR has received a lot of feedback, a lot of positive and a little criticism, and that's a good thing. This is a proper place. There is an indication here of the price of VR tickets as to how much they should be, which is the right price. I myself am part of the group that, at very low prices, VR cannot manage, nor can the bus companies manage, that travel must always be covered by such a cost-covering price, whether it is a state company or a company or an entrepreneur, how it goes. Then we have thought about how to operate on that locomotive. So it goes in the rubber wheel traffic that the entrepreneur may only own the knob truck and everything else is rented goods, whether it is a container behind it or a trailer that it pulls. On the same type, this vehicle company always rents its own equipment to the entrepreneur, perhaps. That is one option, of course there are other options as to how this vehicle company could then go in use. Then we've been asked how to work together. Mr Myllykoski made an excellent speech. Such a type of feed-in traffic should be there in the provinces and on the ground, whether there is a connection to the larger centres, so that they can get people on the small or quieter rail connections, and then feed and fill the Pendolinos there in Tampere or Kouvola or Seinäjoki, where traffic is at least generated.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u175	Mr President! Indeed, if we want more to carry on the tracks, the attitude must change. One more example of the case of Outokumpu. In addition, the treatment of the loading points of the railway lines in that area. In the last five years, VR has shut down almost all small wood loading platforms. It doesn't make any sense. When a tree comes out of the forest with rubber wheels or truck to the side of the track, of course it is worth bringing it as close as possible to the loading place on the side of the track. All it takes is a crane car. That truck will disassemble itself, its load, the trackside or directly into the wagon when it has a stick track. After that, the locomotive will go and get it off. It's not that hard. But now that they've been shut down, VR won't be transporting them. There won't be a locomotive there anymore. If this is the attitude to development and business service, then it will not work. The Outokumpu case is so creepy that for many weeks I had nightmares about whether this could be true in Finland for a company that pays its taxes to a local city, gives a hundred people a job, works successfully on the world market — almost 100% of Australia’s market — and gets its raw materials all over the world by train and takes the finished product by train to or to the market from where it is distributed. There is no way to go to Australia by train, but it then goes to the port of Vladivostok and apparently continues on board. So what do we learn from this? We learn from this that we need to be able to think about things in a new way in this country. Once there has been something that has worked well, it has worked well when Finland has been a civilised state and a welfare state. But now we must start thinking about the future if we want to remain among the civilized and living countries. Take a look at this debate now on climate policy, to which this transport policy is, by the way, fundamentally linked. With regard to the LULUCF directive in the EU, there was a huge potential for the use of Finnish forests, which would be a major opportunity for us. We must have broad-mindedness, both of the government parties and of the opposition parties, so that we can see this common interest. That's what I want to defend tomorrow. I appreciate the good work done by the opposition parties. I'm not disdaining you in any way. It's up to the opposition to question the government's proposals, that's what you're doing. But I hope that we understand the good of the Finns in this matter. I think that is the most important thing in this matter. At least I hope that VR staff and workers and everyone will be well and get so much work that they can work until they get bored and as many people as possible will be hired to work. Many of my wife’s family have had their bread, and the whole family has had their bread from VR, so that I know some of that system. But I hope that the people who work there are expanding all the time and Finland is feeling better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u176	Mr President! A great deal has been said today and this afternoon, but for my part, at this end, I would like to say that this future rail transport and the construction of the future must be centred on a customer rather than on this impeccable enthusiasm for competition. I think we should remember that, whether we are in the government or in the opposition. It is not wrong to think or also to say out loud the truth that VR is a 100 % state-owned limited liability company that has, in recent years, earned dividends to the state of Finland between EUR 90 million and EUR 100 million a year and paid hundreds of millions of dollars a year in taxes to Finland, and the total value of state purchasing and compulsory transport by VR is close to EUR 50 million a year, and when all of these are combined with the transport needs of our industry, of which much has now been talked about in this Chamber in the last hour, these major reforms in rail transport certainly require an in-depth assessment from us political decision-makers and political decision-makers. What I still criticise after today's debate: these reports by Mr Berner do not, in my view, represent an open, realistic approach to this necessary evaluation which should be able to be carried out in a parliamentary manner, that is, by representatives of both the government and the opposition parties. I also think that the state-owned company VR is not a government divisional asset, but must also be taken care of in this market change with a very close eye. But, ladies and gentlemen, there has been perhaps a constructive debate in this Chamber and perhaps a little less constructive at times, and at least on behalf of the Socialist Group in Parliament, I would like to thank you for the fact that this debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-03-ps-97.u177	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report of the Administrative Committee on HaVM 14/2017 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
