ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u2	Congressman Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u3	Madam President! When the family starts to wait for the baby, the Finnish maternity and child health clinic system is involved from the start to ensure a safe arrival for every child in the world. The Finnish maternity and child health clinic system is top-notch and the service most appreciated by Finns. Many experts, such as THL, have pointed out that maternity and child health clinic services should be excluded from the association in a social welfare solution. The Ombudsman for Children has also expressed his concern, and families with children are confused. I would like to ask the minister responsible: is the government going to set up the best maternity clinic system in the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u4	Madam President! Value Ylö's legacy is one of the things worth fostering that are worth fostering in Finland when you are 100 years old. We have legislation that, over the decades, has guided the maternity clinic system into the position that, for example, Finnish infant mortality is as low as it can be, a completely comparable figure in the world, resulting from the fact that Value Ylppö has in time created a maternity clinic system in Finland. Secondly, the government will ensure with certainty that the legislation that is laid down will ensure that the maternity clinic services continue to be a source of pride. You can be sure of that, no matter what the model of government is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u5	Next, I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u6	Madam President! Now there was no answer to my question. The aim of the wars was initially to correct what does not work but does not break what works. We have an admirable advisory system in the world, which Finns have even voted for as the best domestic invention. Now there's something that works equally for everyone. Companying and splitting up the market leads to the exact opposite of what the whole aim of the wars is. Everyone knows that when a child needs help, it is not first in mind to compete or compare places. Now, tell us what you think is wrong with the clinics when they have to be put in this market mold. Should it not rather be that all services work as well as maternity clinics in Finland today?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u7	Madam President! Congressman Haatainen, you're telling me for sure something I have no idea about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u14	Madam President! The clinic reaches almost all families with children. We know that the early childhood phase is very important for the entire human life cycle. Municipalities have wanted to invest in child health clinics, early childhood education, and this has been reflected, among other things, in the fact that maternity clinics have been built more and more in connection with day-care centres, and the aim of this has been precisely to create a comprehensive set of services that are good for the child. Mr Rehula, you did not answer the question just now: are you possibly in the process of setting up a maternity clinic and violating the good development that is currently taking place in the municipalities in order to develop welfare services for families with children and children?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u15	Madam President! At the same time as legislation on social and health care change, administration, financing, legislation on freedom of choice is being prepared, which will specify the details after the consultation. Secondly, at the same time as this administration, funding and many other outstanding issues are being resolved, the development of the content of services is taking place, which means that, from the point of view of children and families, the service package is as complete as possible and recognises, as the maternity clinic recognises, those under the threat of exclusion. On the other hand, support is given to families for parenting. This development is on the way. The third point is that we have a consultation that will end next week. It has been genuinely said that we have open issues, and I hope that when there are open issues, you too will not draw conclusions in the opposition until there are facts on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u16	Mr President! Maternity and child health clinic work is the pride of all of us Finns. It is the cornerstone of Finnish preventive health care. But the incorporation of child health clinic services would mean that they would be part of the future social services central companies, i.e. Hyuvola Oy. What in the world could be achieved with the incorporation and marketing of child health clinics? You, Minister, were talking about queues. I am the mother of four children, and I have never had to wait at a maternity clinic with my children. But the question is, what kind of activity would that be as a private activity? The strength of clinics has always been in long-term customer relationships. In the clinics, the child is checked up to 15 times before the age of school, and all of this with public funds. Our child health clinic system is working really well, and now I ask: why on earth do you want to expose these good results to market forces?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u17	Madam President! A fundamental question. We are in the process of creating, with public money, the euro, the public organisation responsibility, the public responsibility, firstly, the organisation of services, and also a significant contribution to the service solution implemented by an operator with a public background. You are trying to create an image of privatization, privatization, in a situation where public-sector service activities are being carried forward and developed by public-sector euros. What kind of service providers we will have in the future will apply to everyone, regardless of their background, the same legislation that will guide us in the future to have a subject of pride called the maternity clinic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u18	Mr President! This is well documented in the services of the maternity clinic at the moment. I, too, have used them for four children, and I have considered them to be very effective over the years. I would like to ask again, as Mr Haatainen asked, whether it is possible, according to the proposal of the Board of Directors, to enter into, or to have to re-incorporate, the maternity clinic services, i.e. on the basis of the current proposal in the statement, or not? Just as simple a question as this: is the government's proposal accompanied by the incorporation of maternity clinic services, i.e. they come within the scope of wide-ranging freedom of choice, or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u20	Madam President! The draft which is in the consultation has not exactly explained the future of maternity and child health services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u23	Mr President! It is very unfortunate that we now have a situation in which, in the law of the consultation, this future of child health care has been expressed in such a vague way that no one knows the law by reading what the future is and the Minister is now refusing to say what he thinks this should be in the future. Can you now answer the simple question as to whether you believe that the activities of a maternity clinic should be subject to freedom of choice? In my understanding — and in the opinion of many experts, whose opinions I have read — the opening up of freedom of choice to advisory work would also jeopardise the integration between the various services and operators to which this reform is aimed. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u24	Madam President! The experienced MP Alanko-Kahiluoto knows very well that we are currently in government Question Time. As the minister responsible for the preparation, it is my job to ensure that the Government's proposal is moving forward, that the timetables are kept and that the content that is part of the subject is taken care of. We have open questions — I have said it very openly, the whole government has said it. To that end, we have a consultation to clarify possible ambiguities. It is essential to answer one of the arguments you have now raised in these questions, namely that something that is not broken now should be broken up for families with children. The draft law, which the opinion contains, contains a number of points according to which, regardless of what is behind the service provider, it is necessary to ensure that the whole, the service integration, works. Secondly, it is up to the province ultimately to ensure that that chain works with certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u25	Mr President! Finns really trust the clinics. Our highly competent nurses meet families from family planning to the age of the child. Child health clinics reach almost all families with children, almost 100%. In your speech, Minister, you called for a consultation which will end next week. Before the consultation, however, you have limited student health care beyond this freedom of choice. In the same context, why was maternity clinic services not excluded from freedom of choice when it comes to highly functional services for all families with children? Minister, what do you think about this? Can the maternity clinic services really be incorporated and placed within the scope of freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u27	Mr President! Minister Ruhula, you have just said that maternity clinics are the crown jewel of Finnish health care. I fully agree with that. The clinic can find abnormalities in pregnancy, children’s development, care for vaccinations and support for families. At the moment, however, maternity clinics are overloaded, even with existing resources they do not want to succeed. Early childhood and its development are essential for a future adult. In your opinion, how should child health clinic activities be developed? What social and health care activities should be combined with maternity and child health clinics to improve the well-being of children and families?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u28	Madam President! It's more than just a nurse, a midwife or a doctor's reception. When a family needs support, it needs social work support, it needs support from different professions. Early intervention, anticipating things, is best for the family as well as for society, so that, first of all, we keep families intact and, second, we avoid situations in which the child is excluded at a very early stage. The work that is being carried out in the programme for the change of services for children and families, which is currently being prepared at the level of the field in each province, in everyday life, is aimed at creating a network around the maternity clinics better than at present, a network of people from different professions who can support it so that what Mrs Talja wants can be done better than the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u29	Mr President! My question goes very well with this, and I would like to ask about the fact that — Ylppö honours, but it is quite a long time since Ylö’s time — today is thought of, and perhaps for more than twenty years it has been thought that children and families should be built around such multiprofessional support. Many municipalities have started to build such family centres, where there is cooperation not only in health and social care but also in other areas, such as school and early childhood education. However, here, without much thought, questions arise: will this be made difficult now that these responsibilities and responsibilities of organisation are differentiated in this social reform? Has it been considered how to ensure that these things are not broken down, however, in what has now been tried to build?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u30	Madam President! About ten years ago, Parliament passed the Child Welfare Act, which, at the level of the law, assumed that it would be possible to find the multiprofessional teams across municipal boundaries, as the term implies, in a situation where, for example, the competence of a social worker in an individual municipality is not at the level required by child welfare services. These are extreme situations, but there are unfortunately many of these situations. Now, the whole which is being administratively built on the provincial base will make it easier for this issue you have asked to implement, at least from the point of view that municipal boundaries are not an obstacle. Secondly, this family centre model is the very essence of this programme for the change of services for children and families, so that these family centres, such as those with good examples across the country, can be found throughout the country. This is absolutely essential. The third aspect is that the legislation that is now being adopted from an administrative point of view must not prevent this family centre activity, which includes people in the fields of education, health care, social services, from being put at risk. Such Obstacles
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u31	Madam President! Child health clinics have a significant impact on the well-being of families, and the task of identifying nausea is also extremely important. The clinics have also been faced with challenges these days, and new tasks have been assigned to the clinics, including recognition of paternity, which is now possible in the maternity clinics. I should like to ask you, Minister: How are the resources at the clinics at the moment? How are the clinics doing? I would also like to ask about the maternity kit and its future. Is there any way to develop it, or how could it be further developed? I would like to ask: would it not be a great export asset for us in Finland to take abroad, because the model has been admired all over the world?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u32	Madam President! The maternity kit must live in time, and if you look back on history, it has been developed in the direction that it meets the requirements of time for appearance, for clothing and for other content, and then for the goods, equipment, forms of clothing and the manners in which they have been carried out, they have changed in time. It's an export product. Minister Mattila said that he has taken a Finnish maternity kit to New York last week as part of his visit. We should be proud of that. It could be an export product. As far as the resources of maternity clinics are concerned, we are talking about the resources of the whole of social and health care, which we are trying to make better use of in terms of service needs by making a fundamental, big, radical change to the administrative model as well as the way in which services are financed. That's why they make the mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u33	Madam President! This social welfare reform, and in particular this freedom of choice law, which is now in the opinion, this law on forced company and marketing, has received a lot of criticism, but I am trying to understand and keep up with the government's thinking. Could you now describe to us the advantage you see in placing maternity clinics in companies, that such a child health clinic Oy Ab would be born, where then families with children and pregnant mothers will go and compete with these different companies that are being competed for? I would also like to ask: now that these criticisms from the consultation have a lot of feedback on the municipalities — including the City of Helsinki's statement yesterday, and it contains a number of suggestions and criticisms, which are directed specifically at the incorporation and placing of services on the market — will you now take all of these, including a serious message from the Supreme Administrative Court on the role of social services, in the preparatory work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u34	Madam President! That's your own invention. In the future, maternity and child health clinic services will be part of the low-threshold service activity at the base level — continuing to be a low-threshold service activity at the base level — and its threshold must be so low that every mother, preferably every father, every parent, will be involved in the growth of the child in a situation where the child has not yet been born and then after birth. This has been the case and will be the case with certainty. Secondly, as far as the feedback is concerned, this statement by the Supreme Administrative Court yesterday has been read very carefully by several people in the last 24 hours, paying particular attention to the role of social services in this whole area of freedom of choice legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u35	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u36	Mr President! The government wants to dismantle the standards, but perhaps new standards would be needed to ensure the quality of the construction, so that the indoor air does not get sick. Many municipalities struggle with indoor-air schools and other buildings. Recently, a study conducted under the leadership of Professor Salkinoja-Salose on schools in Helsinki was published. The study found a correlation between toxins found in the interior of schools and the pathological symptoms of teachers. Similar results have also been obtained at the University of Turku. How does the government intend to ensure that the quality of construction is properly monitored and that the municipalities are able to ensure healthy indoor air when tendering public construction and renovation projects? Is the government going to specify the responsibility regulations for construction and, for example, to direct municipalities to clarify the responsibilities of indoor air health?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u37	Mr President! The question is what is most appropriate and necessary, because it is quite clear that bad, unhealthy indoor air makes you sick, whether in schools or in day-care centres. It makes the kids sick, it makes the workers sick. Now, of course, the municipalities are responsible for their own property. The Ministry of the Environment, for its part, is responsible for ensuring that we have sufficient guidance and expertise available to municipal decision-makers and municipal authorities. When a new building is built, then it is also very important that the building supervision is always ensured at the site of construction that it is done as agreed, as required by the regulations. If there is a slip, then a wolf and a second will easily be born, which will appear in later decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u38	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u39	Mr President! We have far too many examples of schools and other buildings where efforts have been made to correct the problems of mould and indoor air, but where this repair has failed, users are still showing symptoms. The national Home projects, which were held recently, revealed a lot of building methods and typical building errors that cause these, but also issues related to maintenance and maintenance, even cleaning chemicals, where a lot of mistakes are made. What does the government intend to do to ensure that the municipalities have proper instructions on which maintenance, maintenance and cleaning methods are best, to ensure healthy indoor air and to ensure that these competitions are managed in such a way as to ensure quality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u40	Mr President! As I said, the Ministry of the Environment provides the necessary instructions to the municipalities, but it is then the responsibility of the municipal employees and officials and also the decision-makers to act in such a way as to avoid problems. The problem raised by the questioner is that many times it will not be good, but the problems will continue, is unfortunately common in Finland. In fact, in addition to measuring the indoor air that is contaminants there, and guessing where they are coming from, and enhancing ventilation and so on, it is always worth doing the structural studies to find out where the underlying cause is. In fact, on many occasions it might be appropriate that, when the condition of the building is such that it is uncertain whether it will succeed, it should be abandoned and it should then be built and monitored well. But unfortunately, the government can't leave all the property managers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u41	Mr President! My question is: Could the government consider regulating the chain liability of the main contractor also retrospectively? This would ensure that the building would not be in mold in ten years' time due to artificial saving or poor construction and that liability could not be avoided through subcontracting chains or nominal fines.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u42	Various cases relating to business chaining may not always be the responsibility of the Minister for Housing, but in any case I will continue to emphasise that responsibility and competence of the municipalities, firstly in organising procurement competitions, in order to be able to demand the right things, and then in carrying out the project, in order to ensure a sufficient level of supervision. In fact, there is one thing the government does: for example, it works strongly for wood construction. It is great that in a very large number of Finnish municipalities, for example, we have started to consider the construction of massive log-built day-care centres to avoid indoor problems, which many more complex structures may produce.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u43	Mr President! The indoor air problems of schools speak all over Finland, especially in the run-up to the elections. We too have many destinations where these problems have surfaced. However, the solutions are not as simple as may be heard in the discussions. There are many problems, especially in the construction sector. As indicated in these answers to previous questions, it is possible that instructions will be provided from the Ministry. It has perhaps been assumed quite a lot that all municipal decision-makers would have knowledge of the matter, especially since experts are also divided. I would like to ask: would it be possible to contribute to further research in this area and to achieving an understanding of this type through the debate that we, the decision-makers, also have the opportunity to determine how things are and to proceed on that basis? At the moment, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u44	Yes, no municipal decision-maker, Mr President, may never be able to draw the technical details in the schools or day-care centres there, but it is up to municipal decision-makers to monitor and decide whether it is worthwhile to go and fix whether or not to build a new one. Of course, it is the duty and responsibility of municipal officials to acquire the best know-how available to them. And there are shortcomings here, so there is certainly a need for training and guidance. But we also have plenty of information if it is to be used — and hopefully more so — to ensure that, for example, the renovations are not simply guided by the fact that, for a few years now, it will be carried out in depth. Ultimately, it is most advantageous for the taxpayer's purse: to repair properly or to build a new building if the building is no longer repairable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u45	Mr President! In many municipalities, the situation is difficult, especially with regard to home schools and day-care centres. Municipalities now need to repair and build new ones as quickly as possible. Health cannot be jeopardised and it will cost the economy more. But the problem is that when these public buildings are built in Finland, these problems also arise in the construction of new buildings. I'm bringing up a comparison. In Finland, it is quite rigorously regulated what different materials children's toys may have. We have quite strict regulation of what materials may be available in playgrounds. But the material regulation of the interior surfaces of schools and kindergartens is much, much looser. And here there is a big difference compared to Sweden, where there is quite strict regulation about it, considering those material regulations through standards and recommendations and guidelines, just by means of Ministry regulations, so that those materials are healthy for children and that indoor air problems do not occur. Are you aware of this, that Finland could also improve standards, because in the long term it saves, improves people's health and saves from mold problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u46	Mr President! I am aware that standards guide and ensure human health and environmental safety, among other things. And that is why the Ministry of the Environment is going through all the building regulations while ensuring that it is human and environmental health and safety. It is also possible to simplify the regulations in such a way that it is certainly understandable what is desired, what is required. Simplifying standards and streamlining things does not mean reducing the level of regulation, but making regulation understandable. And from this point of view, the building order collection is being reviewed as a whole, narrowing it down, but at the same time clarifying it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u47	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u48	Mr President! The absolute strength of the Finnish education system is a world-class comprehensive school. Whether a plumber's child or a professor's child, the Finnish comprehensive school has guaranteed everyone the opportunity to build a future for themselves. But the Finnish comprehensive school is now becoming unequal. Regional disparities have increased, gender differences have increased, and the most worrying thing is that the student’s family background has a greater impact on learning outcomes. Stopping this process of inequality is the main objective of education policy in this country at the moment. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, why has the government done nothing to stop this development of inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u49	Mr President! I agree, and I believe that the whole of Parliament agrees that primary school and the promotion of its equality are a matter of national life and importance to us. We have seen the challenges of equality. For example, comparisons of learning outcomes show that we have created three types of equality challenges in primary school: one is related to gender equality, which means that boys’ learning outcomes are far removed from girls’ outcomes — concerns about boys. The second is the differences between the regions, which were now apparent for the first time in the last Pisa. And the third is the effect of socio-economic background. In other words, the Finnish comprehensive school settled the starting-point differences due to children’s home background better than today, and that requires us to undertake even more ambitious reform work in relation to comprehensive school than has been done in previous governments. That is why I have started both parliamentary work to build a vision for comprehensive school and a great many operational measures to reform comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u51	Mr President! The Minister described the problem very well, but I did miss the answers to these specific measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u54	Mr President! The big issue is basic funding for the organisation of comprehensive school. The previous government strongly cut the central government shares of municipalities, i.e. weakened the basic funding of comprehensive school,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u57	Mr President! Of course, no one says that the government does not also operate in this sector of education and when it comes to primary school, but this is almost different from the night and the day. Do you know, Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, why? In the best year, EUR 83 million was allocated to gender equality results, i.e. reducing group sizes and eliminating regional disparities; now the share that the government has left is a fraction of this. When you have talked a lot about value choices, it has also been the government’s choice of values, not to be genuinely interested in those boys who have to be in larger groups than before, and the teacher does not have enough time to give support to just those who need it. Will you now present in the mid-term review precisely this equality and the development of inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u58	Mr President! It is inevitable that we must now remind former Minister of Education, Mr Gustafsson, that, in your time, the basic funding for basic school services, our national pride, was cut out strongly. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude — Chasing — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u59	Mr President! The primary task of comprehensive school is to support the child in finding his or her own abilities, and when comprehensive school succeeds, it is a condition for the happiness of individuals and the economic success of the nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u62	Mr President! We need a wide range of measures. I have listed a few here, and what is important is the work that is being done parliamentaryly, that is to say by all the parliamentary parties, in order to build a vision of comprehensive school, and then these operational activities are being carried out. And the experts have been put to work, i.e. scientists, the best comprehensive school experts, experts are going through those factors. Then there are completely separate actions, such as the fact that, when we are concerned about the deterioration of science and mathematics, it has then been targeted at separate activities and separate funding. And then we have to stick to the skills of the teachers, because the whole success story of the Finnish comprehensive school is built on the fact that we have respected, skilled, highly educated teachers. They are the best guarantee of quality, and we must definitely invest in them. But then, of course, attention must also be paid to the fact that many problems outside school are now evident in the school life there: loneliness, bullying, family problems. There is also a need for solutions, multi-professional cooperation, which is now being done together with Minister Rehula, for example: we have a programme to change child and family services, which aims to make professionals work for the best interests of families, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u63	Next question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u64	Mr President! Last summer, at the initiative of the Christian Democrats, we held an interim debate on the agricultural crisis. The minister then stated in his answers that it is pointless to demand clean Finnish food for homes, schools or restaurants if we are not able to secure the conditions for food production. I fully agree with the minister in question and continue to agree with him. Brazilian scandal meat has been imported to Finland, and now we are in a situation where food on our plate is neither Finnish nor strictly clean. The question is whether it is right and fair for tax money to buy food for Finns to eat that cannot even be produced in Finland. How can Finnish farmers and the food industry cope with competitive bidding if we do not even commit to the rules we have laid down for them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to refrain from this other debate. This makes it difficult to follow this plenary session, for example, in homes where this is currently being watched on television.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u66	Mr President! Mr Östman's question is as good as it was last summer, and the answer is the same: there is no point in waiting for us to have clean Finnish food on plates in homes or schools, unless it is also profitable for producers, and this is what the government is, of course, working for. Well, now there's another muscle candal in the world, for this Brazilian beef. At EU Commission level, we have agreed that meat can be imported into Europe from Brazil. Since then, the establishments from which meat can be supplied have been approved. It has now become apparent that some of these institutions have failed to monitor with the corruption scandal. Some of these establishments have also become consignments of meat in Finland, and Evira is currently going through them together with the operators. But there is still no sign that this spoiled meat has come to Finland, and that is good — it is also a sign that we have control. But the surest guarantee we'll avoid it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u67	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u68	Mr President! The new Procurement Act will allow for the promotion of local food and access to the market for small and medium-sized enterprises, inter alia by allowing partial offers to be made for competitive tendering. The responsibility of municipalities for a skilled procurement policy is significant. How will the government ensure that local food is better taken into account in future public procurement?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u70	Madam Speaker! It is precisely this way that the surest way to be sure that you know what you eat is to eat Finnish food. Then you can eat it safely, and you can also eat it in all its aspects — production ethics and the way in which you act. It is also a health issue, a public health issue to a great extent. It is also clear that when these noises continue to come, often around the world, they try to influence, manipulate the market, gain a competitive advantage, and here comes a situation in which a Finn cannot survive. We do things here as we should, we are controlled, we have a good network of authorities, we have traceability, origins, all this is in order. Mr Tiilikainen, are these regulations of origin which will come, such that if the product does not have these signs in the future, it will then be a sign that it is not domestic meat and then there will always be risks if it is chosen? This is also the advantage of Finnish primary production and the advantage of its profitability, which gives us
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u71	Mr President! About a month ago I announced the decision that Finnish meat processed products and processed milk produced in Finland must also tell consumers about the origin of the raw material. We have never had this obligation before. And when this legislation is put into effect and the transitional period has passed since Finland turns 100, we will have the opportunity for consumers to find out about the origin of the food they eat. If someone does not want to tell us where it came from, then there is reason to suspect that it is not Finnish at least, but products manufactured in Finland are required to have the country of origin reported. On the other hand, we cannot impose this obligation on products imported to us. Now, with this Brazilian meat market, it is also worth considering how to give consumers more certainty and clarity about the country of origin of the various ingredients they order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u72	Madam President! I have already received half of the answer, but I would like to ask again: is it possible, in the same way as in France, for example, to demand that the country of origin be labelled on the product?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u73	Mr President! It is precisely this requirement of origin for Finnish foodstuffs that we are implementing with a model similar to that which France has worked towards the Commission, on the same principle: it better informs consumers of the origin of processed meat and milk products when that regulation comes into force and the transitional period has passed. Even now, in meat and milk products, the Good Finland label guarantees that the raw material is 100% Finnish, so the consumer can already be sure of the origin of the raw material if he considers it important, as many consumers consider very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u74	Next question, Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u75	Mr President, värderade talman! It is a very worrying development in Finland that schools are increasingly reading and learning less and less languages. One indication of this is that writing languages in matriculation exams is less popular than before. Language skills are indeed beneficial in all areas of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u76	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Nylander, for raising this important issue, namely that in the future, in an increasingly international world, we will need stronger language skills and more language skills than we do at the moment. It's gonna take a lot of different ways. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u77	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u78	Mr President! It is indeed gratifying to hear that the government is taking such a varied approach to our children and young people reading more languages in our schools. I agree that we should push ahead with language teaching, that is a good direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u79	Mr President! Man lär sig bättre när man börjar tidigare, det är sant. Och därför har vi börjat med att vi har startat... experiments in which we seek to do so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u81	Mr President! It is indeed an important question. We are very much in the international world and in the world of work, and it is extremely important that our young people receive comprehensive language education. We have been a member of the EU for a long time, and the EU is our central arena for action abroad. We also trade around the world. It is very important that Finland's language policy does not involve, as it were, an impi-hazard closure focusing only on a specific narrow sector or a small part of the world's language. After all, we have had this long-talked issue of forced Swedish, both in politics and in society, which has been the subject of ongoing debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u84	Mr President! This is perhaps my personal opinion, even though the government Question Time is: the concept of forced Swedish is somewhat misleading in that we have forced mathematics, we have forced mother tongue and so on. Learning languages is important and we need to invest in diverse language skills in an internationalising world. There is a record in the Government Programme that an experiment will be launched in which another national language could be replaced in another language. This is also in line with Parliament's efforts. That is why this proposal has been prepared, and it has been in a very precise constitutional study, among other things, and this will be discussed shortly. At the same time, however, I think it is important that we have experiments on how to increase motivation by, for example, bringing forward, early learning of languages. Of course, in that sense the representative is quite right that there is a need for diverse language skills. It is also the case, according to studies, that when you learn one language, you learn the following and the following and so on, and so on, so you should not put the languages against each other either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u85	We have one more question to ask, Mr Outi Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u86	Mr President! Antti Rinne, in the daily magazine of Commerce, has brought a new bug to the debate on freedom of choice by claiming that a free trade agreement between the EU and Canada would prevent Finland from changing the way in which it produces social services, once and for all opening the way to freedom of choice. This free trade agreement will enter into force on a provisional basis in April and will be brought to the parliaments and also to the Finnish Parliament for ratification at a later date. I would now have asked the government: is this Rinne's argument true, or have alternative facts already been introduced in the fight against freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u88	Mr President! Yes, this argument is unfounded. There is a Canadian Free Trade Agreement (CETA) interpretation tool from public sources, which was made on top of the agreement in order to be perfectly clear. In other words, a free trade agreement does not prevent the re-establishment of services that have been opened up to competition on an exclusive basis by public authorities. I really hope that we will not go ahead and sand the way of a trade agreement that can bring thousands, tens of thousands of jobs to Finland in the long term, especially in the maritime cluster, the pharmaceutical industry, the elimination of testing. It is very important that the trade agreement enters into force. It has nothing to do with this dispute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u89	Mr President! This CETA agreement as such is important to Finland as a free trade agreement, and for Europe it is an important thing, a good thing, and it must be promoted. In that interview, which is part of the whole of it, I really said that we need to find out very carefully what this free trade agreement means in a situation where public services are privatised in the government model. This was preceded by a debate with a few key government officials who said, in that debate, that the Social Security Act must be very specific so that the model of this public funding can be found out there so that this threat does not materialise. I would like to ask Mr Mykkäs: is it true that the law on social security funding, this law on social security, must be written in such detail that the aspect of this public funding does not in any way remain unclear so that this threat does not materialise?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u90	Mr President! All the legislation on our services must, of course, be written in such a way that it takes into account what our internal market regulations are within the EU, what the WTO rules are, what the provisions of our existing free trade agreements are. The same applies, of course, to the Canada Agreement. But indeed, the text of Kauppalehti, 'the protection of investment would mean, according to Rinne, that if Canadian capital invested in Finnish health services, it would no longer be able to take away business from it' — of course, the interpretation of the supplier in that point — is indeed a intimidation from Kauppalehti in the interview with Rinte, which is not true, and I hope that it will not get the wrong foothold for Finland in terms of a very favourable trade agreement at the time of its ratification.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u91	Well, one more supplementary question, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u92	Mr President! As I said, government officials say that the social clause must be written in such a way that public funding becomes clear that there will be no situation in which these problems of CETA, which I raised here, can be realised. Let me ask you a very direct question: is this argument correct, Mr Mykkänen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u93	President! Surely it is true that the sections on funding must be spelled out clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u94	The third item in the order of business is the topical debate on the border barriers between the Nordic countries. The debate will be opened by Mr Eerola, the first signatory of the discussion initiative. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will give the floor in the order that I consider. In addition to this, I will, at my discretion, give you one minute's answer. Time is set for a topical discussion for 2 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u95	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the President for bringing this initiative to plenary just in time for Northern Day. This Nordic Day is celebrated today in all the Nordic countries and Åland, the Faroe Islands and also in Greenland in honor of the Helsinki Agreement signed on 23 March 1962. This Helsinki Treaty is a treaty for Nordic cooperation, and it defines... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u102	There have been seven requests for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, and when the number of speeches is only two minutes at the most, my proposal is that these seven two-minute speeches should take place first and then we move on to the stage of debatability.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u103	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Eerola, for this presentation and I wish everyone in the Chamber a very good Nordic day. [Parliament:Thank you! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u104	Mr President! I feel like I'm... The Nordic countries are a little under-used, and perhaps this is also reflected in the fact that there is only a handful of us here today to talk about this important issue. As the chairman of the Finnish delegation, Mr Eerola, said, the Nordic countries are, in fact, a large economic area globally, within the G20, that is, a very prosperous region, and if we could use all its potential, there could certainly be even more wealth. 65,000 Nordic people brushed daily from one Nordic country to another, of which 10,000 are Finns. Despite this, there are still a huge number of obstacles to everyday working life, school life or retirement, not to mention all that companies face if they operate in border regions or more Nordic countries that should be so similar. That is why this is an extremely important issue and it would be desirable for us, in the Nordic Council, to be able to carry out some of the things that a great many of the representatives here in the Council have done — statements, reports, proposals — in this House too. This is, of course, a response to all of us: how to bring them up in our own committees and also bring them into national law. But then there are such coordination issues. Finland’s highly ambitious energy and climate strategy, for example, set the obligation to mix biofuels to 30%. The latest information tells us that Sweden is going to peck us plus 20 percentage points, so they put it up to half, 50. It is very important that we also have more coordination between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u105	Mr President, Herr Talman! Very good Nordic day, all colleagues! We have often had quite a heated debate here on different issues, but this Nordicness is one that unites us all. After all, Nordicism is a world-class success story. It was thrilling to wake up this morning in this small northern country. It is a huge success story that five small Nordic countries are successful in international measurements year after year. Last week, on Monday, we were all at the top of 10 in happiness. That is where we have so much to cherish together. As the chairman of the Finnish delegation has pointed out here, this solution to border barriers and deepening the integration of the Nordic countries is an actual type of marathon, and it certainly requires all of us, including those Members of Parliament who are not involved in the Nordic Council, because these barriers arise in the parliaments of our countries when we legislate on these laws. I also agree with the thanks given by Juho Eerola from the Nordic-Norden Advisory Committee, to which the representative of Estonia has also contributed. We can also be proud of that, and I hope that the ministers who attend Nordic meetings will keep this Finnish practice on the agenda. For years I myself have been able to chair this advisory commission. It is a very small, everyday job, but it has had a significant impact on our authorities — Kela, the tax office, the Centre for Pensions — taking an interest in these matters of importance to the citizens. Mr President! Finally, I would like to praise Minister Berner, who has been a very good Minister of Cooperation, and to thank him for the important work he has done and is doing as Minister of Cooperation. It is great that during the Finnish Presidency we have everything well under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u106	Mr President! The aim of removing border barriers is to create a more open Nordic area in terms of moving, shuttleling, studying and entrepreneurship, and that is a very good thing. By removing the barriers from here you can get a better Nordic, more unlimited Nordic. I myself have also been sitting in the Nordic Council, and it really did deal with these issues. Perhaps it is good to remember that not only the Nordic countries, but also Greenland and the Faroe Islands. A certain number of border barriers might be removed for us if we could also get all the information in Finnish about what is being done in the Nordic Council – for example, I am currently reading this text in Swedish because I cannot immediately find it online in the Finnish language. But what is important is that when you live in a common, open Nordic country and go to another country to work, and if unemployment comes, for example, you follow immediately, so there will not be a situation of falling outside the protective net. Or if you get married — like you do in the north between Haparanda and Tornio — and if you come on vacation to another country and you happen to have a birth start there, it's a small and quite big problem for the family. When I was in the Nordic Council, for example, there was a debate on the return of bottles when bought in the neighbouring country, in that other country, but that is not going forward. Now I would like to see the members of the Nordic Council present, from now on, telling us about the concrete barriers to the borders which will then be on the table. The decisions to remove border barriers are not taken by the Nordic Council, but by the parliament of each country, and now we need information about it and proposals to the government on matters that would improve the Finnish people's cause in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u107	Mr President! Good Nordic day to all of us, and first of all thank you to President Juho Eerola for this – we will have a debate here in the Chamber and we will be able to discuss this. Thank you also warmly to Minister Berner for Cooperation on the Council of Ministers last year. This theme of Finland, which was in the Council of Ministers, was well received. In fact, the introduction came from our own government programme, that is to say, the landings, and it was also done strongly at the Nordic level, and you appointed Risto E. J. Penttilä, who was also a strong chairman of the Border Barriers Council, and so on. We must also thank the other active representatives there, and also the chairman of the Border Obstacles Group, Mrs Kulmun, for these measures. This group of border barriers is now on the Council's side under the auspices of the Committee on Growth and Development. But these issues have already been mentioned, in what way we could reduce the barriers to borders, and I see that we should have more of this debate in our Parliament and also in our committees when these issues are being dealt with, and should bring that Nordic debate and the related debate to the very level of committee. In other words, quite a bit, when we also hear experts and make our own domestic decisions, we also look at it with Nordic spectacles. The second thing we should think about together in the Nordic countries is also this more proactive approach towards the EU and the Commission that, when we start to do new legislation, we would have some common ground in the Nordic countries when the EU adopts its own regulation. The second thing is how we implement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u108	Mr President! First of all, I would like to wish everyone a happy Nordic day. I have to say that when I have lived abroad on several occasions, the farther it gets, the stronger the Nordic identity will come to the surface. The Nordic countries are a very natural area of cooperation for us, and Nordic societies are very similar, and we share a similar value base. It is therefore very important that, between the Nordic countries, living, studying, working, moving and trading should be so easy as not to notice that crossing the border. We know that we have areas where crossing the border is very natural, even though there in the north of Tornio-Haaparanta, that border is hardly noticeable. But then, of course, those living elsewhere may not always think how important it is that we In the Nordic countries, we can act without these barriers. I must say that this popular Silta TV series has played an excellent role in making visible to many, how these barriers to everyday life still make life difficult between the Nordic countries and how important it would be to dismantle them. I personally think it is very important that we create systematic practice when we make our own legislation, and especially when we bring EU legislation into domestic, national legislation, we systematically review that we do not encounter new border barriers. It is true that the role of representatives of the Nordic Council is also to bring this view to the committees, but it will be too isolated if it is left to these individual representatives alone. Therefore, such a systematic Nordic impact assessment
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u109	Mr President! Nordic cooperation is certainly not a matter of course; it requires constant work. I too would like to thank Minister Berner: we have had a very active year, and I believe that, especially with the Norwegians, why not with the Swedes and others, a whole new level of transport has been achieved in the debate. Thanks a lot for that. In 2014, the headline was the Nordic countries in the EU. I still think this is a very important title. Mr Pirttilahti raised this issue of EU influence and possible proactivity. Now that we are talking about TEN-T funding starting in 2023 for transport, for example, how are we there as Finland, how are the other Nordic countries? We have a long way to go to ensure that this Nordic accessibility is at the same level as in other Nordic countries — an extremely big issue for all of us. We now have a national energy and climate strategy in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we see that this is not really a national issue, it is anything but a national one. It's a supranational matter. It's a Nordic thing. Here, too, we are now waiting for Jorma Ollila's report, a report on how we should act in the Nordic countries and in the EU in future, and especially what Finland should do. All in all, this cooperation between the committees: for example, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are constantly making it clear that we should also have more contact with our Nordic colleagues at committee level. Here too, of course, each one looks in the mirror at what we could do. My question, Minister, is this: how can we now develop this proactiveness together, through Nordic influence, better within the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u110	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to open up a debate in this debate. And if the minister wants to say something before that, or the ministers, one — not at the same time, but one in a certain order — then let's take what they have to say first, and then let's continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u111	Mr President! Happy Nordic Day also for me and thank you for your thanks and nice feedback. Nordic cooperation is a matter of common concern to us, and we continue to be active in the Nordic Council of Ministers in promoting the dismantling of border barriers. What is important about this is precisely what you said in your own speeches, the fact that we are actively working in the Border Barriers Council and that we are keeping good practices on the table and also at each meeting we are reminding you of following its work and setting new objectives. The second is that, at EU level, we believe that we in the EU have a common influence but that we are also implementing the directives and regulations that come from the EU. There is still much need for improvement. It is also a question of how much and how far we are prepared to take into account the Nordic internal market as our own perspective and how ready we are to take into account in our own legislative preparations the fact that we always check how this issue has been implemented or is being implemented in other Nordic countries. Thirdly, it is important that we prioritise some of the areas where we are working more closely together. At the moment, we have been talking about strengthening the functioning of the digital single market, energy cooperation, where we had energy and transport ministers in Finland just a few weeks ago at a meeting, where the intention is precisely to coordinate common objectives at a very concrete level and also to implement them both in law and then in order to establish common practices, and we will meet again in May. These common objectives may then be the very way in which we can intensify this cooperation between the Nordic countries and make it very pragmatic. What is important about this is that the Council and Parliament are involved in this cooperation and will strengthen what we are preparing in the ministerial groups on the one hand, and then we will also be able to bring that debate forward at parliamentary level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u112	Mr. Speaker! I myself have been to various Nordic cooperation meetings on several occasions, especially in the field of working life, although it has often expanded to many other sectors. But perhaps from the working life sector so much that this strategy, the cooperation programme 2013-2017, is an important cross-cutting priority, preventing and dismantling barriers in the Nordic labour market. The new cooperation programme for 2018-2021 is now being prepared and, according to the draft, will promote mobility and combat and reduce border barriers. Above all, these free Nordic labour markets, which have been in the Nordic countries for more than 60 years, are important to maintain and develop them further. This is where I met a gentleman named Poul Nielson. Poul Nielson carried out a major Nordic work life strategy report in 2016 and made recommendations on what he felt should be done. Of course, these recommendations will be discussed and their implementation will be examined and prepared specifically in the field of working life. Of course, matters related to unemployment security in Finland belong mainly to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the main area of responsibility, but in the Nordic countries the Ministry of Labour may also cover social matters. Many border barriers are now linked, as has been said here, to EU legislation. In many cases, then, the solution we are looking for is quite difficult to do as a purely domestic matter in the Nordic countries, and that is why we also have to work on that side of the EU. In my opinion, Finland and the Nordic countries have succeeded well in this. Every time there are difficult things for us, we are looking for support from other Nordic countries. Perhaps I will stop by saying that one of these barriers, which was in the working life sector directly related to the Ministry of Employment and Employment, was the replacement of cross-border job interviews. A new article was added to the Government Decree on Public Employment and Business Services from the beginning of this year and this obstacle has been removed. In my opinion, this was another step forward in removing these barriers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u113	Mr President! Individually, the Nordic countries are small players, but together we are the tenth largest economic power in the world. It's pretty tough. The importance of the G20 has increased. It defines the economic policy agenda to a very large extent, especially since it is not always possible to agree on matters in multilateral cooperation. All the trade unions in the five Nordic countries, namely Akava, STTK and SAK, and all the Nordic countries, have taken the initiative to urge the Nordic governments to consider how to do so. The Nordic countries could work together to get closer cooperation and influence this G20 agenda. It would be interesting to hear how the government is dealing with this and whether you have made progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u114	Mr President! These different measurements in different sectors are made from time to time when — I think the week came out of happiness, and all the Nordic countries were at the top there. In fact, a meter like a meter, when you talk about good things, the Nordic countries are always at the top, at the top, among five, at least ten. This is quite a huge area in the world, and it sometimes forgets that we happen to be lucky to live in this, in many ways, the best region in the world, which is an example for many other countries. This is also a reasonably sized internal market, a good place of establishment for any company in the world. But do we use all the potential that exists in the Nordic countries, or could we get even more out of this community that we share? I heard that film productions are currently being marketed jointly and are producing results. But how many other sectors could we possibly benefit from even closer cooperation, I wonder, this is what I am asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u115	Mr President! I can reply to the representative of Estonia: I tried to be this constructive and moderate in my opening speech, but yes, these greetings are true, which relate to the Nordic-Norden negotiating committee. In future, we must insist, and it is not enough simply to be constructive here in the can of speakers — a very correct and good point. Mr Tolppanen then struggled with the fact that he had to read these performances in Swedish or Danish. That is true, and it has been a problem in the Nordic Council. But now we have a membership initiative, a joint initiative between the Finnish delegation and the Icelandic delegation, which aims to make Finnish and Icelandic languages equal to Danish, Swedish and Norwegian. It has even been welcomed in the Nordic Council. Of course it brings costs, it is known, but I myself think so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u116	Mr President! As more people have witnessed here, especially Mrs Feldt-Ranta, this single internal market, which is now about 25 million people or so, is very important. For example, when we make cleantech innovations and others and are, among other things, a biofuel issue, we should make it as smooth as possible for its market to function. After all, our electricity markets are a well-functioning example of this in the Nordic countries, and they can also be modelled on the EU as to whether we can also consider similar, more integrated market functions in other sectors. There are good examples. Then, when we go into these practices, how border barriers have been dismantled, such as those of the tax authorities, when machines were taken to Norway at the time, VAT had to be paid by the first and then perhaps when they came back, but now it has been removed — thanks for that. In other words, we have worked hard to dismantle them, but could we ask about this strengthening of the market?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u117	Mr President! We have just rightly spoken about the need to be active and proactive, and we have been at Nordic level. In tourism, among other things, we have taken initiatives for wider Nordic cooperation. But I would have asked, even though the Prime Minister is not here right now, about initiatives at EU level. This is almost 20 years ago when the then Prime Minister, Paavo Lipponen, took the initiative on the Northern Dimension in 1997 — it is now 20 years old this autumn in September. There could be and perhaps there should be something to bring together not only Finnish ideas but also Nordic ideas and bring them forward together in the European Union, so I ask you ladies and gentlemen: have you had any discussion in the Council of State that this Northern Dimension holiday might be reflected in some practical way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u118	Mr President! In this regard, the Minister for Labour pointed out that these border barriers can also be dismantled from there one by one. Thank you for the job. Mr Feldt-Ranta highlighted the importance of the central organisations and, of course, when it comes to the common labour market, employers and employees also play a major role in how our unemployment fund payments move from one country to another between the Nordic countries. This is of course a matter for the social partners, but would the Minister of Labour have any idea of how to gather and gather these employers and workers from different countries at the same table and also raise this problem of border barriers? Then again, Minister Berner, we have two people in Finland who do border barrier advice. It may not be quite enough,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u119	Mr President! It is very rare that such a meaningful and constructive debate is taking place in this Chamber as we are now having. All colleagues and the ministers concerned have, without exception, spoken in a positive tone. You can see that we are at the heart of the matter. This is something that unites us across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u120	Mr President! One of the concrete issues that should be dealt with in these border barriers is this taxation, i.e. the taxation of pensioners. It is not a real double taxation, but the fact is that if you have earned in Sweden, then Sweden will tax your pension there, and if you move to Finland, you will receive a pension from Sweden — that is, it has been taxed there — but if you also receive an occupational pension from Finland or there is some other income from which you have earned a pension, then here these incomes will be added up and the tax percentage of the income is determined. In other words, our progress will begin to bite down on this pensioner tax. This is one of those things that really annoys people. In our tax legislation, this is really complicated — it is worth reading from the Vero page — so that it is difficult to apply. It would be reasonable for Finns who have worked there to be able to move to their homes when they retire and to receive their pensions without an increased tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u121	Mr President! This Nordic-Norden advisory committee has been mentioned here several times. It is therefore a committee that brings together the authorities, Kela, the tax authorities, the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the ministries, and the representative of Estonia is currently running it, and as a tuxedo here it was suggested that we should make a little more noise about this fine Finnish invention of ours in the Nordic Council as well. This was a good idea from a representative from Estonia, and I am here — and I believe that so is Mr Eerola, who is the chairman of the Finnish delegation, because he is also very active and wants things to happen — that the Finnish delegation could well make this a member's initiative in the Nordic Council. Then it will be officially before other countries, and in that way we can try to promote this good practice also among the other Nordic countries. This is a promise. We will raise this in the delegation and we will promote this by the representative of the Estonian Presidency of the Nordic Region,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u122	Mr President! As I have just said to Mr Viro, this will be required, and a possible initiative of this kind can be put into the debate. It is an excellent idea, at least as soon as we hear it, suddenly. Mr Tolppanen was once again at the heart of the matter, as is often the case. This is the issue that will be the most feedback to the members of the Nordic Council, i.e. this so-called '. Double taxation. That's the kind of thing you have to pay attention to. Then, too, what Mr Tolppanen said earlier, that we in the Nordic Council should then tell us what border barriers are coming in order to be known here. This is precisely what we have been trying to do, that these committees, what The Nordic Council will be in agreement with the national parliaments so that this information can come from it. Seriously, Mr Mikkonen, that is not only necessarily enough, but also more effort is needed. Then to the minister: I know you're familiar with this SIB model. Minister Lindström, you have met Nordic employment ministers, and you have discussed specifically the problems of immigrants in the labour market. In every Nordic country, Afghans, Iraqis, Somalis are these groups of immigrants who employ less than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u123	Mr President! In the Nordic Council, quite a few things take a long time before they can be completed, i.e. we will then be able to take action on that proposal. I think we also had this smart grid initiative, which took us six years to complete. Now that the Nordic Council has been reformed but also the Nordic Council of Ministers has been reformed, does the Minister for Cooperation have a view on whether these reforms have improved it in that sense? It is quite often between the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers that these issues are being played out. If, at least, the Council of Ministers were to catch it and take action more effectively and effectively. This is also related to bringing these measures forward more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u124	Mr President! Minister Lindström rightly raised Mr Nielson's report on labour market issues. I was also involved in this background work, and quite often, both in Sweden and Denmark and Norway, I would have asked you how you see this continuation now, because this is absolutely essential. We went through this report in committee, said the good points in it, but perhaps we missed some of the famous concreteity. Now, if there were ever an opportunity for Finland to influence this too, and in that sense take responsibility for Finns and thereby bring this Nordic labour market cooperation forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u125	Mr President! This is where the issue of taxation on pensioners came up, which is indeed something that is very much to talk about. I looked at this memorandum, which is a frontier report from the Ministers of Cooperation dated October last year, and here, too, this taxing of foreign pensions in the country of residence has been raised as one of the priorities of the border barrier that must be dismantled. However, this is indicated here in blue, which means that the obstacle has been resolved or that the countries have decided to look at it as finished and do not continue to look for a solution. We know that the matter itself has not been resolved, and I would like to ask what this means. Is this as it was, or is this not the intention to remove this obstacle? I visited Tornio last week, and there I heard that Haparanta has in fact become a place where many Finns in Sweden have done their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u126	Mr President! It is true that a lot has been done on the tax issue: there has been a refund procedure, and there has been such a reduction procedure. These have been done, but despite this, Finland's progressive taxation continues to haunt it, which brings together both Swedish income and Finnish income and imposes a tax percentage, even though the tax is paid only on a pension received in Finland. If it includes that income from Sweden, our progress will raise it to a higher level of taxation for a pensioner than if the income from which the pension is made would have been obtained only in Finland. But what is very good about this Nordic cooperation is that there are now, for example, Mrs Feldt-Ranta and Mr Eerola, who are at least for the second time — Mrs Feldt-Ranta may already be there for a third time. Then it becomes such a long-term thing. The trouble is that every four years there's gonna be a break and people start over.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u127	Mr President! I share this concern about the taxation of pensioners, and this is also very much the case in the border region. As Mr Mikkonen said, at the moment the Ministry of Finance considers that the matter is closed. Unfortunately, we have more than tens of such border barriers, so to speak, which have actually been re-examined by the Nordic Council, which has this working group on border barriers, which I am running, because these issues have not been resolved and should be re-opened to the political agenda and brought to an end. Mr Skinner mentioned this TEN-T network earlier. However, when we are here in the north and we work very much with Sweden and Norway, how does Minister Berner see how we can also get joint European funding for these projects across borders — Tornio-Haaparanta, the ice-sea railway projects, and certainly others — and then also leverage the Commission's funding to do so more than it does at national level?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u128	Mr President! We were in Oslo at a meeting where our President held a 100-year seminar, and we also discussed border barriers in the field of transport. Representative Kärnä suggested that, in honour of Finland’s 100th anniversary, it could already be achieved in which direction this northern track will be directed, whether it will be directed to the Kirkkonniemi or Tromssa. Is it possible, for example, in these round table traffic debates this year to have some sort of plan for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u129	Mr President! Now that we have started talking about these networks and Minister Berner is here, how about this maritime route to Sweden, which is definitely a good Nordic project? So the sea road to Sweden would travel from Vaasa to Umeå, and from there it would continue to Norway and then to the Arctic Ocean, and there would be a transport route. For that, of course, we need funding from both Sweden and Finland and from the EU. It is a major project and is already somewhat on its feet, but has this matter at the moment been on the table in any way in the Ministry and moving forward? The Minister knows this very well, and we are, of course, waiting for this to happen, because it would benefit us all and possibly generate income for both Norway, Sweden and Finland through China, because China has also been very interested in this maritime route. This is a very important issue for freight transport and for the export industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u130	Mr President! The Nordic Prime Ministers have said that the Nordic countries are the most integrated region in the world, and that is a very demanding objective for us. We should think, both in the Council of Ministers and in the Nordic Council, about what this means: what does it mean for the common labour market, what does it mean for education, what does it mean for social policy, what does it mean for transport, but above all what does it mean for citizens and business and what does it mean for our societies to move forward together? That sentence contains a very big requirement for each of us. The Council of Ministers has been reformed, and cooperation has been taken in a direction that is more flexible and which is also better able to raise so-called ad hoc issues, such as immigration issues last year, and now a great deal of work has been done, particularly on fuel and energy issues, and on taking transport further through informal cooperation. G20 cooperation has not progressed as well. Perhaps this is also due to Sweden's very reservations about this issue and its unwillingness to export the Nordic countries as a whole, while perhaps Norway and Denmark would be more open. This is a question that we are constantly pushing forward, but I do not see a great deal of rapid movement in it. Do we have more to use? Yes, absolutely. The obligation to distribute biofuels can lead to intergovernmental cooperation and thus to the creation of a common market. We can create uniform ticketing systems and thus improve the mobility of our citizens. At the same time, 5G can be taken forward, enabling digitalisation and ensuring uniform security opportunities. With regard to taxation, we face very great challenges because of our very different tax systems. At a certain point we have been able to resolve those issues, but we still have challenges that go very deeply into our tax systems, and we are working on them at our Finance Ministers' Forum. The TEN-T package has been on the table, but it is currently primarily a debate between Finland and Sweden on whether we can get our TEN-T network to extend to the Arctic, and whether it will also be possible to better involve the EU and the Commission in financial instruments. Above all, the Arctic has been the subject of discussions between Norway and Finland, and I hope that agreement will be reached. We do need to see how this is going to happen, and this is where Finland has its own challenges. Norway's ability to finance is better than ours. Then the Motorways of the Sea project. It is progressing well, it is now under good control at the level of officials, and I believe that we are moving forward many steps at a time. As Mr Östman said, Nordic cooperation is a positive thing. We have all the governments very committed to this cooperation, and we have a good spirit in the Council of Ministers, which I hope will also be reflected in the work that will then be seen in the Council, and we will also be able to report to the Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u131	Mr President! Representative My corner asked the social partners on the Nordic axis how they could be brought in even more forcefully. I know that they are working together, but when I have a debate with our representatives from the national social partners, I will take this message forward and ask them how they can contribute to solving these problems and take it forward in their own organisations. Mr Eerola, last autumn there was a meeting of ministers responsible for integration in Helsinki, where I chaired. Before that meeting, I was asked what subjects Finland wanted to raise in the debate. I asked Secretary-General Høybråten to discuss why the unemployment rate in certain ethnic groups is so high that they are not employed. This was the theme. Of course, this debate revealed that there was, in a way, very little concreteness. In fact, Finland was the only one who presented something new, concrete, and it was this SIB model, i.e. an investment in effectiveness, which is now being carried forward. This applies not only to integration but also to long-term unemployment in general. I personally think it is good, i.e. companies, operators, communities can take financial responsibility for it, and only be paid when the results come. This was of great interest to the other Nordic countries, because this was actually the only concrete presentation. I myself expected Sweden, which has long experience of integration, to have become concrete towards us, but not very much. So this is where I think it's supposed to be. To Mr Skinner's question, how is the continuation of Mr Nielson's work? If the border barriers are spoken of, there was one concrete recommendation from him, and it was like this: "The work of the Boundary Council will be complemented by exploring the possibilities of finding a limited and separately defined group of people with customized solutions between established systems. Such research should take the form of a joint Nordic mandate that would be directly supported by governments." And as I have just said, these are being investigated and prepared in the field of working life. I hope there will be something concrete, too, because otherwise this will be pointless if nothing happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u132	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u133	Mr President! In this initiative, it is proposed to simplify the procedure for building permits, to standardise and to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy — I say that this is also the government’s objective. At the moment, all solid construction requires a building permit. The initiative proposes a time-consuming authorisation process to be simplified in such a way that an additional building of up to 25 square metres can be built on the residence and cottage plot using the notification procedure. In Sweden, similar legislation came into force at the beginning of July 2014, and the experience has been good. In Sweden, the building permit was replaced by a written notice to be submitted to the building board, accompanied by the drawings of the building, the technical information and the inspection plan. Construction can be started after the building board has signed the notice and announced the possible conditions for the start of the construction process. After completion of the building, the final inspection shall be carried out. In the municipal building order, more detailed provisions may be made, inter alia, on the minimum distance from the beach and the boundary of the property. This initiative has also led to a growing market, particularly in the case of small houses. Reducing the building permit procedure for a small additional house could lower the threshold for taking-up and facilitate the construction process. An additional house could also offer new social opportunities for owners of a detached house or a double house in different life situations. For example, a small one in the courtyard could serve as a home for an elderly person in need of family support or as a first home for an independent young person. The reform would reduce bureaucracy, increase people's freedom of choice, stimulate house trade and thus create new jobs. Mr President! In autumn 2014, I submitted a policy initiative on this same issue, and I have noted that both the Centre and the Coalition Party have also mentioned this issue and the problem in their standard-departure projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u134	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Östman, for the initiative. And, as you said, this is very similar to the report on land use and housing policy published last week. In-service construction and construction of small dwellings are trends that are worth taking forward. Trends and changes in consumption behaviour should be taken into account. Urbanization is a thing that just happens. It's very difficult to do anything about it, whether you like it or not. Environmental awareness is increasing, it is a very clear, strong trend. And if you take the capital region or Tampere, you can see quite clearly in the case of young people that cars are no longer purchased in the same way as in the past decades. There is no need to acquire, because, for example, Helsinki has good public transport connections — as well as Tampere, and once the steering wheel is operational, the connections will improve even further. Another issue with regard to building standards is the size of dwellings. For example, the current regulations say that the minimum area should be 20 square meters — well, 20 square meters is very small, but if, for example, the height is 4 meters, it can be given a fully functional student home or an apartment in which one person is quite possible to live. For example, in the Martinlaakso of Vantaa, there is a pilot such as this, where apartments of less than 20 square metres are built, but it required changes and derogations to be made. It is worth watching carefully how this project is progressing and what kind of experience it will have and whether standards could perhaps be reduced in this respect. For small detached houses: A large proportion of Finns still want to live in a detached house, but the price is one of those obstacles. Transformability must be better than in the old, size no longer has to be the same as before. In fact, large squares may no longer be a desirable status symbol. The use of energy and the use of renewable energy in particular is something that should be taken into account, and is taken into account in some areas. In my locality, Valkeakoski had an apartment fair in 2009. The fair went well, and now the area is being extended westward from there, and there will be a House Exhibition in August. The themes of the house exhibition are affordability, adaptability and renewable energy. Small detached houses of between 60 and 90 square metres are built in the area, with the aim of costing between EUR 150000 and EUR 200,000, i.e. very low prices. If compared with the prices of Tampere or the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, they may, for example, provide pensioners with a good opportunity to convert their housing assets into working capital. Municipalities are of great importance, and municipalities should and should strive for, for example, carbon neutrality — the Hinku project is a good project — and various creative ways to encourage people should be actively developed and highlighted by municipalities. For example, in this example of Valkeakoski, the municipality has imposed a carrot that the buyer of a detached plot will receive a discount on the price of the plot if renewable energy is used in the house. So we'd rather go through a carrot than a stick. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u135	Mr President! I certainly hope, when there are still a few representatives of the government party here, that they will take the message forward that this would be a very good thing. This would be a good thing, for example, if you live in a detached house in a detached home area. Now comes a very personal little story: I had a house of my own, and there was a garage that was terribly ill. They wanted to make it prettier for the neighbor’s eye as well as for their own eye and more functional, and so they did. But what did it take? All the neighbors had to get permission first to see if I could fix that rucksack and make it a pretty brush roof, and then pick it up separately from the building board. I think it would be good to do something like this. It would certainly help to move things forward more smoothly and reduce unnecessary paper spinning, and especially in this situation, where we have a rather poor economic situation in the municipalities, it would also reduce extra costs. That would be a very good thing. Indeed, this idea came from representative Östman that even such a small habitable cottage could be made for it. It would be a very good first home for young people or then for the family’s grandmother when it was a small room with comforts, and yet it would be helpful — it would be like getting a lot of things in one stroke. In my opinion, this is a very worthy thing. I very much hope that the government parties will now catch up on this, because you have the power. I believe that there are representatives of the government parties here who also have the weight of their own group to move things forward through the government. Of course, we need government support for this to go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u136	Mr President! Tolppanen's message is a good message, and I will return to last week, actually this week, when we were discussing the land and construction law. There were some deregulations, and it was very good that they were. In all respects, they did not go as far as the government programme, for example, had hopes, but it is because, for example, planning is hierarchical and changes to that land and building law require very far-reaching preparation. The good news is that the overall reform of the Land and Building Act is under preparation at the Ministry of the Environment. It will not come to Parliament during this parliamentary term; it will be enough for the next parliamentary term. It is a big law, a demanding reform, but it is a step in this direction that Mr Tolppanen has put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u137	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u138	Mr President! Over the past few weeks too many elderly people have come to tell us that there is not enough money for food and medicine. Too many relatives have come to tell us that a close elderly person does not receive adequate services, care and care. Too many home care workers have come to tell us that there is too much work to be able to give enough time to the elderly. I have heard too many stories whose message is that this cannot continue. Something must be done to safeguard the position of the elderly. Society cannot just stand idly by. We are constantly hearing these different stories that provoke debate on the role of the elderly in our society. Older people in need of much help are often limited in their ability to influence even their own affairs. In a rapidly changing society, an independent body is needed to promote a better life for older people and the realisation of rights. In an ageing Finland, the number of people with memory disorders is also increasing, and there is a need to invest more in monitoring the implementation of their rights. Several studies and studies have also highlighted inappropriate treatment of older people, even abuse. The issue has been raised both by Valvira, who supervises the social and health sectors, and by the trade unions. The voice of the elderly should also be heard more in the social debate, for example when planning various services. At present, many older people feel that their life experience, knowledge and knowledge are not being exploited in society. In this bill, I propose that the Act on the Ombudsman for Older Persons be enacted to strengthen the status and rights of elderly people in Finnish society. The Ombudsman would cooperate with other authorities, experts and other actors promoting the status and rights of the elderly, such as organisations. For example, the Ombudsman for the elderly would take initiatives on the status of the elderly and on social inadequacies. As other means of influence, the delegate would use recommendations, instructions and advice. The role of the Ombudsman for the elderly can be compared to that already existing work of the Ombudsman for Children, on which we have excellent experience. The Ombudsman would be independent in his/her activities and would have experts at his/her disposal in different administrative fields. The delegate would have his own office. The Ombudsman for the Elderly and the Office of the Ombudsman for the Elderly would be associated with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In addition to the old-age Ombudsman, there would be a necessary number of officials and other staff working as rapporteurs in the Office to enable the old-age Ombudsman to play an active role in the interests of the elderly. A wide-ranging advisory board representing a wide range of expertise would be set up to support the mandate, in which NGOs would also have a strong representation. Mr President! The bill has also been signed by 25 other Members of Parliament and I warmly thank them for their support for the elderly. I hope that there will also be broad support for my bill on the Ombudsman for the Elderly from the parliamentary representatives of the government parties. During the last parliamentary term, Anu Vehviläinen and 27 other downtown MPs proposed the creation of an old-age ombudsman in Finland, so at least in the centre it has been considered very important. It is a question of respect for human dignity and the right to a good life and participation at all ages and at all levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u139	Mr President! I well remember that last period and then the Vehvilinen initiative on this old-age ombudsman. Last season there was a great deal going on with regard to services for the elderly, and July 2013 was full of hope and joy. A long-awaited old-age service law came into force in Finland. During the last parliamentary term, all the parliamentary parties were behind this historic law, but now it is perhaps appropriate to ask whether that is the case anymore. During this term of government, the elderly and their families have been intimidated by the weakening of the nursing system. In home care, there are increasingly poor elderly people, with whom nurses can only roll around, and there are not enough places for those who genuinely need these facilities, for the elderly, who are long-demented. Yesterday I was in contact with the Finnish Federation of Local and Basic Nurses and I have been informed that the situation in the elderly services has become very bad: "Home care is in chaos and the amount of work in services is unbearable." The same message comes from the relatives of the elderly. Desperation is enormous. There has been much talk of a service promise in connection with the social security reform, which sounds great. What a promise of service really means, no one in the government has opened it. It is well known that savings should be made for EUR 3 billion, and it is also known that the modernisation of the information systems will cost approximately EUR 2 billion in the social welfare reform. It's really hard to have this money equation. There is an assessment of this service promise that in practice this is a weakening which will further reduce services for those who most need them, such as our elderly people. So a promise of service is an ugly word wrapped in beautiful paper. Mr President! The Government has postponed the mid-term review to take place after the municipal elections. This is the place where the government evaluates, for example, the need for further savings. According to the Social Welfare Act, the service needs of an elderly person must be assessed within seven days of the notification of the need for assistance, and even urgent services must be carried out within three months of the decision on the service. Even if this is not happening everywhere at the moment, additional cuts would be a real nail to the coffin for many aged people. When society always has to be judged according to how it takes care of its weakest, it is not very flattering at the moment. During the last term of government, I was very open to the idea of an ombudsman for the elderly and I said this when I was Minister to Mrs Vehviläinen. I am now inclined to consider the establishment of an old-age ombudsman as essential and necessary. Due to the reform of the social security system and the weakening of services for the elderly driven by the government, older people need an ombudsman who monitors legislation in a centralised manner and raises the issue of maladministration to act as a mouthpiece for older people. The government has not expressed its willingness to intervene in the concerns expressed by the opposition, so perhaps a person with such a formal background could wake up to what is happening here in Finland at the moment. It is not human and it is not in accordance with the principles of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u140	Mr President! It is alarming that the Nordic civilised state and the welfare state, Finland, must at least present a representative of the elderly. Such matters should be taken for granted without an agent, without a delegate, but since this is not the case, it is of paramount importance that an Ombudsman for the elderly be obtained. And he should not only have the powers that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said earlier, but also have the power to discuss with the government of the country legislation concerning the elderly and the elderly. Then it might even make it easier for the government to work, because, for example, these housing support issues, which were now on the table, medical benefits and small pensions, which are so small that they do not live. Then there would be no need to invest in such work or to reinvent the wheel where the wheel has already been invented and where these shortcomings are known and recognized. That would be a very good thing. At the moment, the lack of staff in home service, for example, is screaming, and no one seems to be missing it. My son worked at a catering company where they took food to the elderly. He said that in one place a man sat by the door, and when he opened the door with his key, the man said that give me the food, took the food, and then said that you read what was in the Norther today about it and about it. He wanted to use the three minutes to talk to a living person. He felt that he could carry his own food into the kitchen, as he could — he could take it there with the walker — there was nothing different — but there must be humanity there. Another thing that is very alarming at the moment: When you are in institutional care, there are places where three diapers are defined for an elderly person for 24 hours. Even if relatives take diaper packages twice a day, they are not used because there is no time to do so, a rated working time is not enough. That means that the old man is in those three diapers — always a little more than seven hours in one diaper — per day. It's unreasonable. No one wants to get old in a country like this, not me. I don't want to get old for that kind of life. It's not a decent life. It is a life that is already testing the limits of human rights. Yes, we must have enough heart and we must have enough goodwill to help our mothers, our fathers, the neighbor’s grandmother, the neighbor’s pappa at the point when they come to the point where they can’t, can’t, or — if we’re there in the final stages — really not be able to be anything but in bed, and then the other has to worry. What is also alarming is that we have read the news that elderly people have even been kept in the basement, in the bed, of course, and in the blanket. When there are no relatives who visit between the situation, then take the old man as an object — objectified — and work according to it. It's not right. We need to be able to take care of it, and there are activities that can be done in the municipality and that may not even be expensive, and that, in addition to the stage of going to the last rest and being quite close to the last journey, when you say "I count to Levo, my Creator" in the evening, it could be said with dignity and the end would be valuable. That is what we need an ombudsman for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u141	Mr President! We have two particular ethical and human concerns at the moment in the treatment and treatment of elderly people — at least two. Firstly, this situation of home care, to which Mr Tolppanen referred, is currently catastrophic in many municipalities. In the evening shift, the employee may have 30 places to visit. On the morning shift you can visit a fully assisted customer at 11 a.m. for the first time, when the employee has been in the evening before about 7 p.m. Thus, this completely helpful person will be from 7:00 to 11:00 the next morning on his own without food, without going to the bathroom and other things like this. This is a truly inhumane life for an aged person. But then home care also has an inhuman working life for workers, as workers tell them that they are eating lunch in the stairwell or driving from one place to another. There's no way to take any food breaks, not even bathroom breaks properly. Then the other concern is the abuse of the elderly. Now, in two years' time, more research has appeared, even a doctoral study, which states that abuse is a real problem today, and Valvira has also drawn attention to this same issue. Maltreatment is physical, psychological, social and chemical. For example, the use of sedatives is still very common in the treatment of memory disorders, and such chemical tranquilizers are always a mistreatment, one can say. There are many reasons for this inappropriate behaviour or abuse; no single factor explains this. The background is scarcity of resources, lack of skills, management problems and so on. But, Mr President, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u146	Mr President! We demars have a way of saying that if we demand something in the opposition, then when we get to the government, we always try to meet our demands when that power is in our hands. In this regard, I would now very much encourage all the representatives of the centre who are still sitting here in this Parliament, with the confidence of the people, that they should now also take forward this appointment as an old-age ombudsman in their own party and government. Of course, the establishment of this post will not remove all the problems that exist in the services of the elderly, but it will then help to get a voice for the elderly, which I hope will be heard as an authority. I would therefore appeal to the government to ensure that, in the course of this term of government, when efforts have been made to seek these savings also on the side of the elderly services, the government would understand that this is a totally wrong place to save, and would withdraw these savings already decided upon and any others that may be there, because our elderly people deserve a good, safe evening life, and especially when their own powers are no longer sufficient, it is the duty of society to be there to support and help. This is social democratic thinking, it is also embryo-thinking, so that, in that sense, we certainly have a lot of work in common, and I believe that, in cooperation, we will be able to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-23-ps-28.u147	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk in recent years about old people coming home. People have tried hard to do it, but it's not the right thinking. At the point when the old man is already in the ward, he cannot be discharged, no matter how much it saves. Of course, this is about the decisions of the municipality, but it would be very good if we could get together in such a way that when a person gets older and is at home, that life at home would be good. In order to be able to live at home for as long as possible, it would be a very good thing — now that we are talking about social welfare reform, we are talking about the vouchers — that there should also be the vouchers — in every municipality this is not the case — that the old man gets the first help there, and that is the cleaning aid. It's what he can't do. Then comes the shopping, then comes the doctor’s visits, then comes the medication to the dots and other things like this, but let’s move on. What the new reform should pay a great deal of attention to for older people is that we have service housing for the elderly, which is home-like, but which can have a little prata company if you are able to stand up, and you can go with someone to walk with and then come back. We have good places like this. They are actually all private at the moment, but in any case there are, but there are definitely too few. And then, when it comes to moving on, then you go to a retirement home — perhaps not at the moment, but as a ward — and then you have to make sure that there are enough staff there to take care of the people and that there are enough staff there, that the staff will not wear out. The exhausted employee is tired of being empathetic, exhausted employee is tired of giving sympathy. We need the necessary staff for that work.
