ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u2	Mr President! Today, a large part of our legislation complies with and receives its seed from European legislation, especially the European Union, to some extent also from the decisions taken in the Council of Europe. This proposal is well-founded, there is no comment to it, but given the current situation, I draw attention to the fact that Great Britain has very strongly criticised this very European legislation and the fact that European legislation and its interpretation and the European courts are directing the proceedings of the British courts, and they have found it a problem in terms of sovereignty. That is why, of course, it makes sense to reflect on the issue also among ourselves as to how we commit ourselves to these European standards and how we respond to British criticisms. Of course, this is also important in the light of the fact that Britain now has quite a lot of demands in terms of the future of these standards that have now been adopted, how they will continue in Britain, but also in terms of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u3	Mr President! This example of Great Britain is very timely. Now, I am sure that all of us, on our own part and in our own committee hearings, will be hearing about this situation, which is what it is there, and this introduction to the subject was quite justified because it is from there that there has been criticism of both the legislation and these economic demands. I think it is very important now to see this from the perspective of Finland, how everything that is going to happen will affect us too, our economy, our contributions in the future in the European Union. That is why I think it is very important to be in a reasonably tight line here and to expect Britain to take care of all its own contributions in the forthcoming negotiations. I think it would be very important for Parliament, too, to be able to make a statement about this publicly and through committee consultations. For example, the Audit Committee has just taken a stand in favour of this line. In the Committee on Finance, too, we have heard experts and had a preliminary debate, and we will certainly be making some comments in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u4	Mr President! Personally, I welcome this European approach to the rule of law and it is particularly important for the fundamental rights of citizens. What is also good is that we have a European Court of Human Rights, which can act as a guardian of European human rights standards, and it is even positive that it is on the human rights side that the European norm is protecting citizens from a variety of political changes. It is known that many governments have criticized this, except for the United Kingdom for its own reasons so little from another point of view, in connection with Turkey's accession negotiations to the EU. Turkey is clearly one such country in which these common standards are very important. However, when Mr Viitanen raised the issue of the economy, it must be said that the current negotiations with Britain should be followed very carefully by both the government and Parliament. One big thing is the extent to which Britain will be responsible for the financial commitments it has made during membership. After all, we have a multi-year financial framework in the EU, the use of which has been planned and distributed in advance. There are many other similar commitments. It will then be important for the United Kingdom to come to these negotiations, not only in relation to these legal aspects, but also clearly to commit itself to Britain's continuing responsibility, not only after its resignation, but also for the commitments it has contributed to and will be in force several years after the resignation of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u5	Mr President! I think it would also be important in this context, given that this topical issue of these British financial commitments has also emerged in this part-session, that the government, too, could give us some insight into this situation and open up its own views on the whole. In any case, if the President so permits, I would also like to remind you a little of yesterday's debate, extending it a little bit. We spoke here in another context, in connection with the report by the Committee on Audit, about the fact that, overall, this European policy should also be opened up to public debate through the large Chamber of Parliament. The idea arose, among other things, that we could hold an up-to-date debate, which would cover, for example, these possible future paths to the heart of Europe presented by the Commission — whether inside, outside or halfway. Surely it would be a place for us, on the whole, to have a public debate in Parliament. I am well aware that, as a general rule, the large committee is the committee that deals with these issues — and this must be the case — but I am sure that it would also be appropriate to raise the general public's debate on these issues, and that is why it would also be good for this forum to address them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u6	Congressman Heinäluoma. However, I would point out that we are now reasonably far away from this actual topic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u7	Mr President! Yes, we are quite close to this topic, because this concerns the European norm and its application, including for Finland, and yes, the solutions that are being made in Europe are essential. However, I will of course take into account the President's wish in my own speech and therefore just briefly say that it would be justified for Parliament to stop at these major questions of European development a little more thoroughly so that the whole Parliament can express its own opinion. That is why I agree with Mr Viitanen's idea that we should hold a topical debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u8	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma's speech is easy to continue. Now, after all, this Brexit has been before a large committee and has been before the Committee on Foreign Affairs and will continue to be, and now there is the Brexit Summit, of which the Prime Minister has just informed the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the big committee. I understand that the government is now seeking a date when Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss both foreign and European policy. This is what I think. We've got this Brexit thing on the agency all the time. I'm saying it's on the agenda for this entire parliamentary term. We have to constantly take a stand on how the negotiations between the Commission and the British are going to proceed and on how to reach an agreement that will then safeguard the interests of both.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u9	Mr President! Congressman Anttila just said what I was going to say. But I will continue to say that the very Brexit is now being discussed in the great committee, and I am sure that there will be opportunities for discussion here. The biggest hypnotism seems to be passing through the Brexit now in the UK. For the first time is the poll, which is negative for Brexit, and people there are slowly waking up to this world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u10	Mr President! Indeed, the Prime Minister was in the Committee on Foreign Affairs today and this was also the subject of discussion. It seems that, on the last day of May, Parliament will have an opportunity to do this. It has not yet been concluded, but the Prime Minister's assessment was that, on the last day of May, there could be a broad foreign policy debate here — and the issues of the European Union are, of course, at the heart of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u11	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Anttila, Mr Ala-Nissila, Mr Salolainen, for this announcement. This gives some relief to the concern that Parliament as a whole and hence the Finnish people would be aware of what is happening in these negotiations and what the Finnish Government is promoting on behalf of the Finnish State in these negotiations. Apart from these European legal standards, there is also a major impact on what is going to happen in the economy, and I would like to see this debate on bringing the matter to the Chamber now go on, and perhaps the debate on foreign policy is a matter of its own. The acute concern concerns the solutions for the future of the European Union and how to talk about them. They have economic effects, of course they have a wide range of political implications. I venture to hope that, when we consider the form in which this Parliament is being brought into this Parliament, we will be in this policy corner of the European Union. Then there is also a need to talk about foreign policy, but there is less concern about it. I believe that the government has handled foreign policy reasonably well, and there are fewer risks in terms of foreign policy, but there is in terms of EU policy. And I would just like to conclude by saying that there must be a very clear line for Finland in this matter of payment in Britain, and the government must be able to know what Parliament thinks so that it can pass on this position in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u12	Mr President! It is important for Parliament to have a debate on the broad lines of EU policy and the Government's views on it. Brexit has shown that citizens have a great deal of discontent with the current state of the EU and we need to develop a more sustainable, socially sustainable Europe, but also a stronger economic area in this global world together. In the Brexit negotiations, I think it is essential that we now safeguard the rights of EU citizens living in Britain, including Finns, and also ensure that people get to work and study flexibly, that good trade relations are maintained. At the moment, Finland has a lot of exports to the British forest industry, among other things. But in addition to these trade issues, I think it is very important that the fundamental values of the EU are also strongly involved in these negotiations, that the refugee policy, which must continue to be the responsibility of Britain, should also be environmental policy, the fight against climate change. I very much hope that Britain will continue to be among the progressive countries on these issues and will also pursue a sustainable fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u13	Mr President! It was very good to hear that this opportunity for foreign policy debate is indeed possible since the last day of May. But I would like to emphasise it myself, for example, by referring to the debate we had here yesterday, that it is not just a European debate on the future of the European Union, but a public debate. This would, for example, give rise to the possibility of launching and initiating a debate. For example, we have a new European minister on the way. It would be very interesting to know his views on this. Mr Heinäluoma has just referred to the fact that it would certainly be good for all of us in Parliament and citizens to be aware of the government's line on British contributions. Similarly, what has given me a great deal of thought is this whole debate, whether we go to them and how deep and in which areas, and whether there can be different paces of development and so forth. These are big, big questions that will be more or less raised in the autumn, or of course all the time, but that is why I think that this spring time is necessary for such a debate. I would very much appreciate it if Parliament wanted to take this up. I believe that the citizens themselves would be interested, because when this is opened, many very important details will be revealed. Yesterday we talked about the economy, whether we are going to deeper EMU, for example, whether there are common budgets and others, so these are such questions that they do affect us Finns to the greatest extent. That is why I think it is very justified, President, that we should also have this debate on European policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u14	I would now like to point out that this has become an entirely European debate. We are dealing with the government's proposal for legislation amending the European Small Claims Procedure and the European Order for Payment and Article 2 of the Court of Justice Fees Act. But Congressman Heinäluoma continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u15	Mr President! I would like to make one further contribution to the debate in Parliament, but hopefully also in the government. This is something that one might think of as, now that the Commission has announced its own route map options, these five options for the development of the Union, if one were to be chosen from them, this Europe of different circles, which has the choice of how deep cooperation is going to go, would also have an impact on these types of legislative proposals that are now under discussion. So you don't have to take the whole à la carte list at once, but you can really make choices from the à la carte list that you want to use. Parliament should be able to talk about this principle itself. It may be that if such a Europe of different circles were in practice, then Britain would not have seen the need to resign, and in that sense this could be of greater importance not only for the future of the Union for the present Member States but also for the future potential Member States. In other words, the debate on the future of the EU is of great importance, and it is linked to the type of legislative proposals that we will receive here and which we will be forced to follow. In this context, I would just like to remind you that in May the Commission is becoming a very important paper looking at the possibilities for deepening economic and monetary union. It is an ever-opening development that some of the countries of economic and monetary union, such as Germany and France, should take the path of developing closer cooperation, which Mr Viitanen, a little earlier, also lacked. We should now be able to talk about these openly so that we know what the options are, and Parliament, Members of Parliament, can reflect on their own position. I too will wait for the new European Minister to start this debate for us as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u16	Mr President! In principle, I agree with Mr Heinäluoma. These are so big things, and they cannot just go about half-way, I agree exactly with that, but one option is for the Prime Minister to travel to the Council tomorrow, where the route map issue is on the table, that after that we will hear how the matter has moved forward there. And as far as the follow-up is concerned, we can certainly appeal to the Prime Minister to take this last May presentation, this announcement, also to the heart of these EU issues, because we have already discussed foreign and security policy here quite thoroughly. It is not so much new now to the line we have taken, and that is why it is good to make a wish to the Prime Minister that he should perhaps take these matters a little more and acutely into the proposal, so that this will come about, that at least at this stage we will be able to say something about it before the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u17	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u18	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I was thinking of talking about this point, namely the establishment of Hossa’s National Park for the Jubilee of Independence. After all, there are now 39 national parks in Finland and this Finland 100 national park is in order. Hossa region is a fine national park in the municipalities of Finland, Kuusamo, Taivalkoski. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I myself have had about six years to live, and in those years more national parks were also established. They were interesting hearings and important things, as well as this national park, which will now be opened in June to celebrate Finland's 100th anniversary. After all, this area is a very magnificent area of graywood, where there is treasure forest, the magnificent Canyon Lake of the Cruel-Olky, where I remember myself as a little boy, and there have also been people before, because those oldest rock paintings in the area dates back as long as 4,000 years. The interest of these national parks has increased significantly. The attraction has grown already here in the Hossa region, in fact, before the region even received the national park value. Last year, the number of visits to Hossa's camping area was over 63,000 and the growth was about one-fifth, or nearly 20 per cent, of the previous year. Most of the growth is explained by the Finland 100 National Park to be visited by new visitors. In total, the number of visitors to national parks has increased in recent years: from 2012 to 2015, for example, by 26 per cent, or one quarter. So very good popularity in these great national parks is. Many of the favourites — Repovesi, Pallas, Ylläs, Oullanka, Nuuksio — have grown in popularity, and at the same time there have also become new interesting destinations, which we also met last season with the Environment Committee, such as Örö Island or Vallisaari, which was opened in front of Helsinki, for example, last summer, with as many as 85,000 visits. In total, the total income and employment impact of these 39 national park visitors amounted to nearly EUR 180 million last year and nearly 1800 person-years, as well as over 13 million and over 140 person-years of all six hiking sites. We have Pallas-Yllastunturi National Park, Urho Kekkonen National Park, Koli National Park, Oulanka National Park and Pyhä-Luosto National Park. Money flows to the local economy from tourist areas where visitors are longer and the provision of tourism services is higher. For example, the number of visitors to Nuuksio was close to 340,000 and to Koli 180,000 respectively, but the total income impact of Kol's visitors on the local economy was considerably higher than in Nuuksio. Well, these are money and money readings, but more important are the big natural values they have, which is why people want to be in beautiful nature and enjoy, and that is why it has been good that last season these national parks were also brought here to Congestion Finland, where there are a lot of people. This is an important point here. In fact, in the case of national parks, what I am most concerned about is that the funding of nature services should be kept at a stable level — in fact, a growing level is needed to ensure that we are able to keep the facilities up-to-date in these areas, that the signs are up-to-date and that people move accordingly. For when we talk about the camping of tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands of people, it also has a significant impact on the environment, and it is important that this whole thing is taken care of. And that is what I understand: the present Committee on the Environment has also raised this issue, and we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have also been concerned about this. Thank you, Mr President, I would also like to give the current government good work on nature conservation at the moment: it has been decided to increase funding for Metso, and it is important at a time like this when the economy is tight, because 5 million, which has now been decided to increase, [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] Mr President! When nature is close to my heart and it is a valuable thing, I would also like to bring to the very end a great idea that I noticed in the magazine: The Finnish Latu seeks everyman's rights to the national list of UNESCO's living cultural heritage. In some way, it has little to do with this, that we in Finland have also wanted to keep this nature common to all of us, regardless of who owns it. And I strongly support the fact that the export of Finnish Ladu's everyman rights from the national list of cultural heritage to the international list of lifestyles would produce results.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u19	Mr President! That was a good speech and I agree with these views. It is always worth speaking for nature, and that is important. But I actually asked for this reply because I have concerns about this funding, which Mr Heinonen mentioned. It is very good and important that the Housing and Environment Section and the Committee on Finance and all of us are concerned, first of all, about the funding of nature services, but then you mentioned Metso's funding in your speech and it was, of course, positive, good and positive that 5 million came in the debate. But to open my eyes now on this funding, the unfortunate fact is that even this money that came in that row is the patchwork of an already existing permanent cut which, in a way, will not remedy this situation, i.e. the corresponding permanent cut in the government programme per year is 18 million, and now there are 5 million more,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u20	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection paid attention to Metso funds and added about three million. This year's money is going to go, because the trend is what we need to go through, and this 5 million is enough to achieve what we have. Now, if I go to the actual point of Hossa, this is the 40th National Park, a truly fine event of the celebration of Finland's independence, which President Niinistö respects with his presence, and the Environment Committee is there. I would also like to draw attention to the need for funding insofar as, of course, as the number of hectares increases, the pressure will increase to the point that the euro should be available in a similar way, that the lava, the deserted paths, the routes will remain in order. The economic impact cannot be underestimated. It means a lot to the regional economy. It's important to people's health. It is in many contexts and research already found that the more outdoors, the woods move, the better the people can. It was great that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection produced a unanimous report on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u21	Mr President! Protection activities all need more money, and I, in particular, am concerned, as has been pointed out, about the allocation of national parks in the future. This year we also received additional money to get some additional funding for national parks. The Metso issue was now corrected in the mid-term review, it is good, but it is not easy to add any money. I am really concerned that we will all be able to manage Finland’s 40 national parks properly in the future, having maintained our great network, which Hossa National Park now complements as the 40th national park. So good luck to all of us that we got this kind of fancy park done. In future, we will see to it that we also have the funds to maintain it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u22	Mr President! Just to be brief, this 5 million is not a one-off sum, it is a one-off amount, and that is why it is intended to be able to manage that project until 2025. It is, of course, a little open to how the next governments will then work here, but this government has announced in this decision that 5 million dollars a year will come into this Metso project, which is something else than one-off. And the Environment Committee was then informed by the Ministry of the Environment that this year we should have received 3 million, 6 million next year and 8 million next year, in order to achieve this objective in 2025. Well, now if there are 5 million every year, we will stick to this basic objective well, but that does not solve the whole problem yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u23	I will give the following answers, Mr Mikkonen and Mr Heinonen, and then the matter will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u24	Mr President! It is really great that the Board of Directors put 5 million in Metso funding this year and next year, but it is worth remembering that when this Board started, Metso's money was on level 27 million, and then it was decided to cut it every year. Indeed, we are now at a level of about 14 million, and for next year we had already thought of cutting more in the framework. In that sense, these 5 million increases for this year and next year are very important and will be able to ensure that the forest can now be redeemed for protection purposes, that it is at least kept to a minimum. On this matter of national parks, which is also a very fine decision, I would also like to point out how important it is to ensure that, when new parks are set up, enough money is made available to put the structures in order, and then to maintain the structures, the network,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-04-28-ps-45.u25	Mr President! Now I'm a little off the subject myself, but now that we're from Metso, [ Hustles from the left]
