ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u2	Congressman Jonah Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u3	Mr President! Now in the autumn since the beginning of the school year, there has been a debate about the increased material costs of secondary students. The textbooks, tools and accessories are all things that the student or his or her family must be able to pay for themselves. For example, the total cost of completing a upper secondary school degree can be as high as EUR 2,700, while the costs of some vocational qualifications are even higher. The increased costs are reflected in the increased drop-out of studies, and of course the greatest need is already the lowest-income ones. We are therefore in a situation where the completion of secondary education is no longer free of charge. Mr Minister of Education, having ordered a report from the Education Board on this subject and this has already been clarified in the past, I would like to ask: what concrete measures is the government taking in addition to the study, so that no one's course is interrupted because of the cost?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u4	Mr President! A very important, good and also timely matter and a lot to talk about in families. Everyone in Finland must have the opportunity to train. It comes from the Constitution and is firmly at the heart of our education system, that everyone must have the opportunity to study regardless of family background. It is also based on our free education system. It is true that in vocational education and upper secondary school education, second grade, students and families incur costs for learning materials. In this context, I have ordered an update from the Finnish National Board of Education on what these actual costs are, for example, in a changed situation, when digitality has brought new costs and, for example, there are different material costs in different fields. From this report we will then also be able to draw up the necessary measures to ensure that everyone:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u6	Mr President! As I said, it is great that the government has asked for a report on this, but I have asked for more specific measures. One such measure has already been talked about, and has been supported by many experts and has long been promoted by the SDP to have a truly free second-degree degree, which would then mean extending compulsory education to the whole of the second stage. This is what many experts have recently spoken for. So, Minister for Education, I ask you: why does the government not take up this means of increasing the fairness of education, reducing school drop-outs and strengthening employment? This would be a genuine way of guaranteeing everyone a free second degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u7	Mr President! In recent years, a lot of work has been done in Finland to ensure that everyone moves to secondary school after comprehensive school, and the statistics just a few weeks ago are that the month of education is a very successful month. In other words, 98.7% of those leaving comprehensive school last spring have reached a secondary school place — this is a statistics a few weeks ago — and we have probably been able to improve on this. So you can say that the education month in Finland actually works. But the problem has arisen and little has gone to the next stage, which is that vocational training in particular is too often not completed. And this question of the suspension of vocational training is, of course, accompanied by this study of material costs ordered from the National Board of Education, but also by the extensive reform of vocational education and training which is now being implemented. It has been approved by Parliament. Regulations are now being made, and from the beginning of next year a new, new type of path will take effect, built on much more personal paths and also on more personal support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u8	Mr President! We still have the best comprehensive school in Europe — the best comprehensive school in Europe. Now that we are celebrating a 100-year-old Finland, let us be proud of it. From the point of view of equality in our education policy, what is the main problem at the moment? It is that we have 100,000 young people under the age of 30 without a secondary degree. This can, of course, be preventively corrected now that we are trying to make primary school secondary school functional, boys of interest. But then there are these 100,000, and I ask the Minister of Education: The competence programme for young adults is now coming to an end, but it has brought about 15,000 unqualified graduates. Can you now begin your own further work in a strategic and financial way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u9	Mr President! Prevention of exclusion is one of the most important tasks of this government. We must ensure that, in the future, every young person will have at least a secondary degree and, unfortunately, because of the suspensions, we are still too far away from this objective. 17% are missing a secondary degree at the moment, and that is definitely too much, and that is something we need to find serious action to do. In the mid-term debate, the government agreed on 19 new ways to prevent the exclusion of young people, and the lack of vocational education and training was one of the most important. In addition, support is needed for those who need it in particular, including mental health services, to play a key role in this. And those places are also needed, the representative mentioned this knowledge programme for young adults, which is now a strong approach to the new legislation on vocational education and training. It serves all target groups as a whole and better than at present. And even in the row, right here a few weeks ago, the government agreed on additional funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u10	Mr President! This initial question of how everyone should have access to secondary education at the lowest possible cost is very important. I believe that this is also an over-the-regime goal. There's no point in going out there and looking for the people responsible for the opposition or the government. Let's try to do something better together. Similarly, the question of compulsory education is something that we should consider together with all due care. Maybe I'm not talking about duty, I'm talking about education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u13	Mr President! Finally, on the subject of compulsory education and the prevention of exclusion, I would like to point out that, even in the light of studies, the most effective prevention of exclusion is the work that is done as preventively and at an early stage as possible. In other words, support for families will be targeted in a preventive way. We have a programme of changes in child and family policy which is working towards this change in early support. Similarly, early childhood education is impressive, and that is where we need to take action, so I would like to start looking for those solutions, especially there. Then another question about this student choice: Regrettably, many young people have a roadblock from second to higher education. In addition, our education system has been laundered with a chargeable, extra part that is not accessible to everyone, and it is these expensive training courses that have become almost necessary in certain areas. Not all families can afford them, and we want to get rid of this expensive extra part and ensure that young people have a smooth transition to higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u14	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that every young person in Finland should have the opportunity to be trained. It is a fine principle, but what this summer report actually showed was that not all Finnish young people currently have equal opportunities to train. One fourth of the young people who dropped out of their studies reported a lack of money. I think this is really sad news in a country like Finland, and yes, it is our responsibility as decision-makers to make a promise to Finnish young people that no young person's study path should stop at the second stage, at least because of a lack of money. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, it is very welcome that you should deal with this issue, but after the clarifications have been made, are you prepared to make a promise that the government will also use funding to solve this problem when we know what measures are needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u15	Mr President! Equality of opportunity is at the very heart of our education system, and we are working to strengthen this equality and we are prepared to do the same. Now the National Board of Education is doing this study, and that gives us the ingredients, the problems and the points that may need to be solved. But Finland has a free education system, we have a high-quality education system that is at the top of the world, and it is important to keep it that way and open up and offer them to every child regardless of their family background. One of the issues that has arisen in society alongside education is that, unfortunately, not every child and young person has a chance of even one pleasant hobby. That's why it's also on the government's agenda so that we can act in society among different actors to set this kind of goal for the hobby moon, that every child and young person has the opportunity to engage and not increase the cost to become an obstacle to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u16	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister very much for taking this report forward. No one should be faced with a situation in which expenses have to be interrupted. This is also one aspect of how we can reduce the costs of students. But I would raise a completely different issue from this month of education — which is an excellent thing for us to move from ninth grade to second grade — we actually have one group that also needs a month of education: the upper secondary school decide. After all, we have created an extremely large number of applicants, and this will lead to the exclusion of those who have finished high school. Could we in Finland introduce an education month for those leaving high school?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u17	Mr President! Now that the legislation on vocational education and training has moved from this Parliament to that implementation phase, the government has decided in the middle session to launch the reform of the upper secondary school. The aim is that legislation on the new upper secondary school law can be passed on to Parliament next spring, with the key objective not only of securing and strengthening general education, comprehensive educational capacity, but also of smooth transitions to higher education. Unfortunately, at the moment too many young people have a way of blocking higher education. We have an average starting age in higher education studies at a time when many other countries, practically all other countries, are already graduating from a lower university degree. We have a late transition to further studies and, unfortunately, according to researchers, it seems to have already influenced the expectations of the future of young people and that it would not even dare to go to their own dream and wish fields. This is what we need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u18	Mr President! Extending working careers is one of the most important challenges facing society, especially from here to the young. I believe that both for the 16-year-olds and for the 19-year-olds, this joint phase should go better. However, it has to be said that this government does not take on both. There have been many fine speeches during this Question Time, but neither of them are presented with specific medicines. It's been different in the past. But it has been unfortunate that the majority has never been found before for these important problems in the joint stages. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister of Education, when you have traditionally opposed this extension of the right to secondary education: Are you ready to change your mind? Because already the Prime Minister Sipilä pointed out that this matter of compulsory education should be considered. All key economic policy experts are turning to the need to extend working careers from young people's head and the second level should be converted free of charge. Do you agree with these financial experts?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u19	Mr President! Important points of view — but, Mr Kiuru, during your term of Minister for Education, there was no reform of vocational education and training which could have had a positive effect on these interruptions. [ Illustrations all around the hall] Now, however, the reform of vocational education and training has been adopted and is able to tackle precisely these difficult points. Its main objectives are to reduce the drop-out of vocational training and to prevent and tackle the exclusion of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u20	Mr President! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to say that during the last term of the government, the reform of vocational education and training did not really take place because Parliament ended up... Seven out of eight parties were in favour of not cutting off the starting points for vocational education and training, and this government is now doing exactly the opposite. What is shameful is that during the last term of government a project to extend compulsory education, an extension of the right to education, really fell. What I thought was that it would have been worth doing because young people would have been working for 10 years longer when there was also a second degree after primary school. Unfortunately, however, this second-degree conversion was not made free of charge by the then National Coalition Party of the Minister of Education. What do you think about that now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u21	Mr President! This does not really need to be answered any longer than by saying that Mr Kiuru himself has just described the fact that the previous period failed to implement the reforms. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u22	Mr President! In my opinion, the Minister of Education made quite a strong argument when he said that the education month is working in Finland, and I would be interested to ask: when have you last worked this out and are you going to find out? It is now the case that the various cuts in education carried out by the government actually increase the number of fallers — second-degree cuts, plentiful syllabus cuts. In addition, the conditions for receiving income support for upper secondary school students have been tightened and, according to studies, one in four vocational school students drop out because the money is not enough. It is also reported that students in need of support are not receiving therapy, many drop out for various social or health reasons, and so on. In other words, what is the basis for your claim that the education month is working in Finland, and whether you will also examine how these vocational school cuts will continue
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u23	Mr President! The Finnish National Board of Education collects statistics on how the education guarantee works, and a few weeks ago is the fact that more than 97 per cent of those who completed comprehensive school last spring would have received a place of study at the second level — and that is a good message. It tells us that years of work to get young people to go to secondary school would come true. That is definitely an objective, and we cannot stop our efforts until it is possible for everyone, and we must continue working on it again this year. Then it is quite certain that not everyone of the entire age group will be able to study in vocational education and training in a targeted way, and then social and health services will be needed to support them. In this context — of course, the ministers of responsibility can complement this — we need the mental health services, we need effective student care, we need to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u24	Mr President! I am very pleased that we are discussing young people and their welfare. The Minister raised the issue of the safety experience of young people, among other things. We were talking about prevention, fallout, exclusion. One key factor in preventing exclusion and building the future is precisely a safe school path and a safe learning environment. Regrettably, we often read about bullying at school and the serious problems involved. I would like to ask the Minister: what measures has the government taken to prevent bullying in schools? And I would like to ask: how does the Minister feel about the blue proposal on the obligation to intervene which could be given to schools in order to put an end to the bullying situation within about two months?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u25	Mr President! A very important aspect of this issue too, for there is certainly one factor behind the drop-out of education if it is not good to be there at school. Every adult, whether an adult at school or any one of us, has an obligation to intervene if you encounter bullying situations. It is an absolute obligation for an adult to deal with all kinds of bullying, racism, all forms of discrimination and also loneliness. Researchers, professionals, school adults every day do excellent work in trying to identify different effective, effective models to tackle bullying. Here too, professionals are currently working in a working group that will submit its report at the end of this year. Of course, one aspect that emerges strongly is these new forms of bullying in social media, on the Internet. They have little different mechanisms, and there must be the right channels for intervention. Then there's another point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u26	Next question, Congressman Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u27	Mr President! Yesterday, the President of the EU Commission, Mr Juncker, gave a speech on the future of the EU. It was said that the Commission wants the EU to see a strong expansion of the Defence Union and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Schengen area into Bulgaria and Romania. In addition, the speech wanted a super leader for the EU. All of this means a clear advance in the federal development of the EU and a further reduction in Finland's sovereignty. You, Prime Minister Sipilä, praised the speech well. According to the current Government Programme, Finland aims less to regulate the EU. According to the Government Programme, there is no need to deepen EU integration in all policy areas. Why aren't you following the government program? I ask the Prime Minister: what exactly are the policy areas in which you have not deepened EU integration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u28	Mr President! There was a lot of good in Mr Juncker's speech: firstly, that he raised the issue of free trade, which is extremely important to Finland, of the internal market, particularly the issues of the digital single market. I understand that in this Chamber we are also very much in agreement on the deepening of defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u31	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u32	Mr President! The EU leadership wants more and more power in Brussels. This was evident again yesterday in that speech by the President of the European Commission. When things are decided in Paris and Berlin, it is not much in the interests of Finland. In Finland, the parties have not promoted federal development openly, but have largely been carried out by the people in darkness and contrary to the will of the Finnish people. Even in the centenary year of Finland 100, the government continues to hand over Finland’s national sovereignty a piece by piece. The Finnish people did not commit themselves to this when EU membership was voted on. I ask the Prime Minister: when, in the opinion of the Government, has the Finnish people given their consent to Finland being taken as part of the EU's federal state?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u33	Mr President! Never, and neither will we. It would require changes to the Treaties, and Mr Juncker also said in his speech that there will be no changes to the Treaty, moving forward within the framework of the current Treaty. But I will take one example of the need for closer cooperation. That is the fight against terrorism. Much has been achieved there to get a common picture of the situation when we have intensified cooperation in the fight against terrorism, and I believe that it is precisely on such issues that we need more Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u34	Värderade Talman! Det är oerhört viktigt för Finland att vi sitter med vid de brord där besluten fattas. Också i EU är det viktigt att Finland är en activ aktör, en construktiv medlem som också vill föra frågor framåt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u35	Mr President! This is, of course, a topical and important issue. After all, Finland has been an active player in Europe and is an active player during this parliamentary and governmental term in particular. We have a bilateral influence, we have an ongoing influence at the level of officials — and, of course, at the summits and ministerial meetings themselves. Finland is therefore an active player and we are pursuing the good principles set out in the Government Programme which have well anticipated the future issues of this European elections. From my own background in the European Parliament, I have been encouraged by politics and I am well aware of this Juncker programme and his thinking. There were a lot of good things in this speech, not exactly surprises. It was good, for example, to find common ways of combating terrorism, to have fewer proposals from the Commission than before. This terrorism, for example, is a good example of the fact that this cooperation is worth doing, but it is precisely by determined adherence to national sovereignty and, of course, to the tax euros of the Finns themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u36	Mr President! The Christian Democrats believe that EU Member States must have a responsibility for their own development. Otherwise, we will end up with more and more transfers within the Union. Several amendments call for unanimity among the Member States, and Finland can reject them if it wants to. Mr Juncker also felt that the EU would work better if we combined the duties of the President of the Council of Europe and the President of the Commission and one captain led the ship. In our view, the proposal for a super leader would reduce democratic control and lead the Union towards a federal model. My question is: what does the government think about increasing qualified majority voting and solidarity and extending the EU budget? These are also included in the Juncker presentations. Secondly, does the Finnish Government support the concentration of power in the EU for one leader and large Member States, in line with Mr Juncker's proposals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u37	Mr President! The existing structures are in the interests of a small country. This is what we're gonna hold on to. The second question concerned solidarity. We have clearly included in the government programme that solidarity should not be increased when it comes to economic issues. This is where we need to be particularly vigilant when we talk about moving the euro and EMU forward. Here we have been on this northern front that we must first bring down the risk level clearly before, for example, we can move forward in the banking union. We have taken a clear position on extending the budget so that, when Britain leaves the European Union, we will not share that contribution from the United Kingdom with the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u38	Mr President! Yes, Finland’s destiny and success are in Europe and the European Union. It is important for us that Europe as a whole should develop in a mutually supportive, forward-looking, cooperative area. In this respect, I welcome the Prime Minister's basic attitude. It's real. Then it is a different matter that this development does not need and we are not here to support any federal structure that would move decision-making away from this Chamber to which the citizens choose their own representatives. These positions will then be taken in concrete terms when we see what the government is going to say when it comes to that important summit in December. There are a wide range of proposals on issues such as the protection of workers, labour standards, a new authority that could ensure that we have common rules when workers move within the European Union. I ask the Prime Minister: when are you going to tell the Finnish people and Parliament what the government is going to say about Finland in these great questions about the future of the EU, which will be resolved at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u39	Mr President! It's true that a lot of big things are going to come to the table this fall. As the outcome of the debate on the future, defence cooperation, for example, makes decisions during this autumn and many, many big questions we have on the table. That is why I have offered the House that, as already agreed on 8 November, we will have a debate here solely on EU issues, on the future of the EU and on these major issues, so that the whole Chamber will be able to discuss these issues in the form of a statement by the Prime Minister. And in every matter, as the proposals come, Finland's position is of course traditionally formed in a large committee. I greatly appreciate that work, and we will bring proposals there as the EU comes up with proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u40	Mr President! Mr Koivisto already said in his day that we should be at the tables where decisions are taken on us. Yesterday's vote on LULUCF was a victory for the Finnish forest, but it was above all a sign that we have managed to make a strong impact in the European Union. Yesterday's Juncker State of the Union speech can be interpreted as a strong statement on behalf of a stronger Union. That is precisely why we need to be particularly vigilant and ready for active engagement. The Prime Minister mentioned that 8. A debate on European policy will be held on 1 November. But I hope, Mr Prime Minister, that, when these things come up, we could perhaps discuss more areas here in the big Chamber, so that it would not just remain in the big committee. We're supposed to be working on all the right tables.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u41	Mr President! I agree with this and am always prepared to discuss important EU issues in the most diverse fora. In my opinion, this influence on EU issues in Finland is now in good shape. For example, this declaration of the future of Rome is very much like Finland. This was much discussed in a large committee, and I believe it is in line with the positions of a very large majority, including Parliament. This LULUCF milestone, which was achieved yesterday, is a good example of how hard work can turn things important to Finland in the right direction. Minister Tiilikainen must have met his colleagues more than 50 times here, and the members of the large committee and the European Parliamentarians in Finland have done a good job in this regard. And this is a good example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u42	Mr President! First of all, it was good to hear from the Prime Minister this certainly positive and active attitude of the whole government towards the development of the European Union. The European Union is needed, it must be on the move. We need it in order to create a sustainable economy, we need it in support of the climate agreement, and we also need it in support of the important issue that you, Prime Minister, said in the fight against protectionism. We need extensive world trade, which is in the interests of Finland. In addition to this, of course, defence cooperation is developing, and I myself am optimistic that, for example, this permanent structured cooperation will bring new opportunities for Finland's defence. But I would have asked you, Prime Minister, your view of the British Brexit process at the moment. Finland has, as it were, had natural allies in northern Europe, we have had close cooperation with Britain on many issues: anti-protectionism, many environmental and development issues and so on. Will we lose something when Britain leaves, and how will we replace the gap that Great Britain has in the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u43	Mr President! This is a very important and good question. Great Britain leaves a big gap in many important issues for Finland, such as trade policy and the development of the internal market. I have discussed this with my northern colleagues on the Swedish-Danish-Hollanti-German axis. For example, we also held a joint Prime Minister's Conference on this, where we said together that we must now fill the gap together, take a bigger role in these issues, which are left of Britain. These trade issues are a good example of these. We have a small difference in thinking, for example between the north and the south, which protectionist tools we should use.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u44	Mr President! It is indeed appropriate to thank the government for this LULUCF decision yesterday. It was a truly valuable and important solution, not yet the full profit, but an important share gain, and it will enable us to secure the use of Finnish forests from now on. There is a great deal of work to be done, but we can give Mr Tiilikainen the toast of a fighter at this stage of the work that has been done — and to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, the government as a whole and also to those who worked on it. Unfortunately, not all the meps can be thanked for this, but most of it, fortunately, is now. It was an important interim victory and showed that if we are active, long-term, things that matter to Finland can be influenced at EU level and not everything comes from Brussels to Finland. But it's only a win-win, and there's still work to be done. Since this is such a central question for Finland, I ask Minister Tiilikainen: how will the work continue from now on, and what is your assessment of whether this is going to be carried to the finish line in the way that the interests of Finland and Finland would be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u45	Mr President! Indeed, that decision of the European Parliament yesterday is very much in line with the view of Finns that forests must be actively used as part of the fight against climate change. It is great that the vast majority of MEPs across Europe see this vital role of forests in the fight against climate change. Finland has a long tradition of sustainable use and sustainable use includes the use of wood raw material in industry for the most diverse new purposes in the future. It is part of our well-being, our work and our economy, a responsible one. Now, of course, the next step is to find common ground among the Member States on the role of forests in the fight against climate change, and hopefully, as early as October, we will have the widest possible number of Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u46	A further question, Mr Huhtasaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u47	Mr President! The EU federal state will come anyway. Although Finland does not want it, it will. It will not be born overnight, it will go one step at a time, and the EU will destroy the state independence of the nation states. When, in this Chamber, have I understood that no party wants to do so, when will the government jump off the EU's federal sled according to Norway and Switzerland? After all, they are not part of the EU, but they are in the EU internal market. When is Finland going to jump out of this EU, because in any case, what will happen? The EU will become one country and there will be that one super leader. This is a very clear integration that can be seen in the region, and even in monetary union we have nothing to lose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u48	Mr President! This government will not bring a presentation to the table where Finland would resign from the EU. I don't see the point. I am not going to sit in a position where we are sometimes making such a decision. It would be against Finland’s national interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u49	Mr President! The importance of the European Union is widely understood by Finns. It also plays an enormous role in the major international issues we are facing, whether climate change or, for example, our security issues. The representative of Estonia, as chairman of the large committee, raised the very right issue, namely how we can ensure that these great issues that are now ahead of us in the European Union are dealt with in parliamentary terms. I think it is important that the Prime Minister made it clear that they would be produced in the form of a declaration, but I would ask whether it would be possible for them to be produced in the form of a communication, so that we, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which I chair, could also deal with issues of the social dimension, and so on, which are of great concern to the citizens, and thus extend it to those which are coming up for parliamentary debate. Would this be possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u50	Mr President! We have agreed with the Parliament on the Prime Minister's announcement. I can also consider other ways, but the announcement has now been agreed upon. It is also a matter of timetables, how these are collected and dealt with. This parliamentary debate on EU issues in Finland is good and very effective. I have also marketed it to colleagues who seem to have little questions about whether there is a mandate and whether it is clear about the country's position, and some are even in the middle of a meeting when a national position is sought. We have a clear practice of having a large committee as the main responsibility for shaping Finland's position, and I welcome this very much. I will see to it that the large committee receives all the information it can now, when these important issues are being raised — plus this whole House will then be having a debate in November.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u51	Next question, Congressman Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u52	Mr President! The mining company Terrafame has submitted a new application for authorisation to the Regional State Administrative Agency of Northern Finland and wants to increase its sulphate emissions and increase its production volumes. Last week, the University of Helsinki published a study showing that the discharges from the Talvivaara mine have turned nearby lakes into chemically layered salt basins, the bottom of which is hapet and almost lifeless. Terrafame now suggests that the pipeline to Lake Nuas is held in its current place and that the annual quota for sulphate emissions should be increased by 5000 tonnes to Lake Nuasjärvi and by 2700 tonnes to the old dismantling routes. Professor of environmental change Atte Korhola has also estimated that the state of Lake Nuasjärvi is likely to collapse with existing sulphate emissions if the same continues. I ask Minister Tiilikainen: is it the State's interest to grant a new environmental permit to the Terrafame mine to permit higher emissions, and are the mine's guarantees at the right level, taking into account the environmental and economic risks of the operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u53	Mr President! It is extremely important that an independent environmental permit authority is established as a civilised state in Finland. The environmental permit authority will process the content of future environmental applications and impose conditions, grant or prohibit. As politicians, we do not intervene, we do not deny or tell, but we allow the environmental permit authority to work independently and evaluate future projects on the basis of existing legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u54	Now is the time to ask further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u55	Mr President! In 2015, the Ely Centre of Kainuu ordered Talvivaara to restore two lakes that were ruined by the company, but now says that Terrafame, the successor of Talvivaara, cannot be considered liable for compensation. Environmental damage has also resulted in significant disadvantages for tens of local lake property owners. The amounts of claims for damages vary from a few tens of thousands of euros to hundreds of thousands. It is unclear who will eventually pay for these violins. The starting point is that, even in the event of bankruptcy, environmental damage is primarily to be compensated for by the cause of the damage. I ask the Minister: will the government also pay for the clean-up of contaminated nearby lakes in addition to the EUR 200 million already pumped into Terrafame and also prepare to pay for the cleaning of Lake Nuasjärvi if Terrafame itself is not willing and able to do so voluntarily? In the interests of fairness, do we also pay for the damage caused to landowners by the taxpayers' bag?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u56	Mr President! Those emissions and the situation in the neighbouring lakes, which was mentioned in this report, have been caused in 2012-2013. So there was talk of the old bills that had come into these lakes, which were early in Winterfell. Now you have to notice: during Terrafame these have not come. On the contrary, there is already an improvement in the situation in these lakes, so it is worth noting. As Mr Tiilikainen said, as far as permits are concerned, this is a matter for the Licensing Authority to determine the follow-up. They asked about the guarantees. The security shall be reviewed as required. More emissions are needed to achieve record levels of mining at the moment, and the resulting price is so good that Terrafame is even in a very good economic situation at the moment. Legally, this compensation procedure is still relevant to Winterfell,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u57	Mr President! Of course, Terrafame speaks and carries a lot of things, say this, from the afters of Winterfell, and of course it has to be distinguished that they are two different companies. The leaks that occurred during 2012 and the pollution of the nearby lake have nothing to do with the current operator, and the responsibility should be borne by the person who commits the infringement and the damage. This is also the case in the private sector, in the case of individuals, the responsibility should be borne by those who do the damage. However, it is a good thing that, now that there is no such person as this, the State is taking responsibility. I would also like to ask the Minister for the Environment whether it is the case that the present Terrafame bears responsibility for these environmental issues and these nearby lakes, Lake Nuasjärvi, Lake Oulu, in the areas where we live there, have remained in good shape and are useful. Has it been a little wrong with these investigations, with this message, which has now come to the locals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u58	Mr President! Those responsibilities in relation to the first part of that question, if pollution has occurred, and, unfortunately, in the case of many closed mines, the money earmarked for compensatory measures has not been sufficient, but the additional budgetary procedure has forced the State to contribute to the closure costs. In fact, the work on this has been launched at the Ministry of the Environment: how to better respond to each other's preparedness and potential damage. The second question then concerned this current activity of Terrafame. Those permit conditions imposed by the licensing authority at the time were considered very strict, but once Terrafame’s current operation has started well, I understand that it has been possible to run operations under those permit conditions, and in that sense the operation is now on track.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u59	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u60	Mr President! The government has not explained the effects of its own decisions on the distribution of income, and the opposition has also had to do this work on behalf of the government. At the request of the Left Alliance, the Parliamentary Information Service calculated the income distribution effects of the Government's decisions. It was hard to read. The lowest incomes have suffered the most, they have been cut. At the same time, high incomes have benefited from government policy. This is not a surprise in itself; this is what we have been talking about for two and a half years. But yesterday you too, Prime Minister Sipilä, had finally noticed it — apparently on the basis of this report — when you said that you must admit that government policy has hit the lowest incomes most. Acknowledging the facts is the beginning of all wisdom. Now that you, Prime Minister, Sipilä, you have acknowledged this fact — you cut the most from the poor — how will you change government policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u61	Mr President! I said here in the previous Question Time and also yesterday in the A-Studio that it is clear when we have had to make painful cuts of $4 billion: when benefits are cut, these benefits are not paid well. As far as this calculation is concerned, this will require a little attention and insight into the basis for its calculation, because it has emerged that this is a static calculation and this does not take into account, for example, the fact that long-term unemployment has significantly improved. The slower growth in social benefits compared to earned income is also dealt with here as a government decision. We don't decide on salary increases, do we? It requires a little effort to be able to respond to the criteria for this study you have commissioned, but that is clear, and I admit that some of these 4 billion cuts are painful and are targeted at low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u62	Now is the opportunity to ask for further questions by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u63	Mr President! It's not just something that's happening. This is the result of political decisions. The previous government in each spending limits group, each budget line, reduced the income distribution impact and reflected on decisions in the direction of their impact on different groups of income recipients. No matter how much you're talking about this $4 billion adjustment, the previous government actually made bigger adjustments, [Department : Yes! — That’s right!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u64	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki refers to the decisions of the previous government. The operations were mainly performed by municipalities and are directly out of the basic services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u67	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you said that benefits must be cut from those on low incomes, because they receive benefits. Did you know that 10% of taxable social benefits go to the richest decile of Finns and the poorest decile of Finns receives only 9.4% of taxable social benefits? This means that the rich also receive a lot of social benefits in this country and that cuts, if they were to be made, could have been made in contrast to the basic security benefits that the poorest people receive. This was also a choice, not a mathematical necessity. Are you aware of who is receiving social benefits in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u68	Mr President! It is quite true, as Mr Kontula says, that the social security system is multidimensional. We have universal benefits, such as child benefit or maternity kits, which, regardless of income, belong to all citizens. For example, child benefit is an income equalisation between family and familyless citizens. I do not know whether it can be interpreted here that the Left Alliance is willing to give up the child supplement, the present system. That is, of course, a separate matter. I would also like to say that in the decisions taken in this government's budget debate, we did go over those economic issues of the most distressing population groups very carefully. I admit that we were not able to invest enough euros in them after difficult economic times, although, fortunately, the economic transition has gradually taken place, but I consider, for example, our approach to raising the child supplement for a single parent and raising the free range of early childhood education and, for example, that to be significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u69	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä here said that decisions have now been taken to increase income differentials. The opposition leader The Sipilä in this Chamber disagreed: he promised before the elections that no one would be cut, not a cent. Now the level has been cut, pensioners have been cut, students have been cut out of a quarter of the student financial aid, and these cuts in index form will continue for another two years. The surgeries will continue. There is growth, but now a large part of the population is being excluded from this growth. Mr President! The serious question is: does the government think that growth belongs to everyone? The first step would be to assess the impact of the government's own decisions on inequality. You've been refusing to do it for three years. Prime Minister, the first step would be for you to agree to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u70	Mr President! It is true that the indices have been frozen, and this is exactly what I meant in this Chamber at the time, and it was also in the electoral programme of many parties, including my party. If I remember correctly, it was also part of the SDP election program. Freezing an index is one way to...
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u73	We will take one more question — Mr Mölsä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u74	Mr President! We blues are concerned about the state of housing policy in Finland. Housing problems in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area endanger the growth and competitiveness of Finland as a whole, says a study commissioned by the Audit Committee on Tuesday on housing policy development targets. According to the survey, the problem of matching supply and demand is central, which is reflected in the significant increase in the prices and rents of dwellings in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and, correspondingly, as empty dwellings, the problem in remote areas. To an increasing extent, a large proportion of people’s net income goes to living alone. After this, it can be difficult to run a daily life, especially in families with children. According to the survey, the only way to curb the rise in prices and rents in the capital region is to increase housing supply. Mr Tiilikainen, what measures does the government intend to take or have taken to curb housing costs, and how will the above-mentioned problem of matching be resolved?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u75	Mr President! The government's key projects, which have been carried out, are increasing housing construction in precisely the areas where the shortage is greatest and prices run away. This has been very successful. In the last parliamentary term, housing production fell year by year, during this parliamentary term it has risen by about 50 per cent in housing initiatives compared with the previous government’s achievements. What is gratifying is that affordable housing production supported by the state has also been brought to a higher level than in the past. Now the production figures are higher than ever in 20 years, so the volume has been mobilised. However, it must continue to be possible to offer low-cost housing in particular. That is why we are reforming that long model of interest subsidies aimed at low-cost rental dwellings. The short model of interest subsidies is very attractive, the right-of-occupancy housing legislation is being reformed. There's a lot going on, and it's going to be solved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u76	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 6/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The conversation is about to begin. First of all, Mr Haatainen, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u77	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has examined the Government's proposal for a law on the temporary reduction of the interest on late payments to the Farmers' Pensions Institution. This law will be fixed-term. In practice, it is proposed that a fixed-term law be introduced to temporarily reduce the interest rate on late payments to a pension institution. In this regard, it has been considered that the liquidity of agricultural holdings has deteriorated particularly strongly in recent years, in particular as a result of the Russian ban on the import of foodstuffs and also as a result of the abandonment of milk quotas in the European Union in March 2015. We have heard the experts, and this report is unanimous, so the committee proposes that Parliament adopt this government proposal No 79 without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u78	Mr President! The proposal proposes to provide for a temporary reduction in the rate of late payment of contributions to the farmer's pension institution. I consider the proposal to be very important and timely because the purpose of the law is to ease the temporary payment difficulties on farms caused by changes in the agricultural environment. These changes and errors of payment exist throughout Finland. The plight of farmers has been led by a number of factors that have not been in the hands of entrepreneurs themselves. The liquidity of farms has deteriorated substantially. For example, the producer price of milk has fallen to a record low in a couple of years and an increasing number of farmers have to stop due to the deepening crisis in the sector. This continues to be due to the Russian ban on the import of foodstuffs in August 2014 and to the abandonment of milk quotas in the European Union in March 2015. For example, the Valio factory in Joensuu processes about 190 million litres of milk each year. In Joensuu, about 1,000 farm milk are processed every day, and half of these farms are located in North Karelia. The employment impact of Valio Joensuu factory in the region is therefore considerable. The Russian embargo affects producers, mills and dairies on the border in particular. At present, farmers are entirely dependent on the decisions of the big business community and the government. Their negotiating position is completely nonexistent. Farmers' share of the price of domestic food is the lowest in the food chain, although the workload is the highest. I myself know of farms where the bills are no longer opened, the mind is down, the means of coping with loans and other payments have no longer been there. With the accumulation of bills and lower incomes, life - sustaining forces will simply end at some point. These unfortunate cases have been reported regularly in the press. I believe that people who have a mental difficulty with bills should seek help at a health centre rather than at a hardware or liquor store. Farmers are increasingly finding it difficult to cope with the running costs or debt repayments caused by normal activities, and this rainy summer will certainly not contribute to this. This government proposal contributes to new faith in agriculture. However, this alone is not enough. There must also be other ways to make it easier to cope. Of course, there are many kinds of therapy, but it does not, however, relieve debts or the problems of everyday running. There is a need for understanding agricultural problems and a wide range of means to do so. One way to mention supported holidays, for example through the Rural Health and Holiday Care Association, which is an organisation operating with the support of STEA. Supported holidays can be applied for by people of different ages who are permanently resident in Finland, who do not otherwise have the opportunity to go on holiday, and I think that farmers are just such a group — similar subsidised holidays can also be found elsewhere when you only know how to use the Internet. This and similar vacations would be one way to continue in a demanding profession. In any case, this government proposal to reduce the interest on late payments is appropriate. The proposal ensures, among other things, the level of sickness and parental allowances and future pensions and prevents the creation of an enforcement debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u79	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to provide for a temporary reduction in the interest on late payments of contributions to the Farmers' Pension Institution, and this bill is intended to be in force until 2018. Having been from the land itself and having had a childhood in a farm, you can already live in the world of souls that is happening in the countryside and in the farm. Changes in the agricultural environment and the resulting payment difficulties are commonplace for a large number of farmers. As a result of extreme weather events, as well as the Russian ban on the import of food in August 2014 and the abandonment of milk quotas, the situation has been very difficult. It is sad to hear that families there are wondering whether or not to open that bill and how to react to it. We must do everything we can to support the Finnish farmer and agriculture and also help these people to get through the day-to-day life that lies ahead. This reduction in the interest rate proposed is appropriate and we unanimously approved this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Not only do we have such a good bill here, but the implementation of this law and its effects will have to be monitored in the years to come, and then at some point we will have to consider whether these measures were sufficient and whether this bill should perhaps also be continued as regards the situation and outlook then 2018. This bill is a good one, and we are in favour of it and we see that it is very good for rural areas and farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u80	Mr President! There have been changes in the agricultural environment which have caused profitability problems and have substantially reduced the livelihoods of farmers for reasons beyond their control. Producer prices and profitability have been falling sharply for years. The difficult economic situation in recent years has increased the number of requests for payment periods for pension, group life and accident insurance for farmers' pension institutions. However, the extension of payment periods has reduced the fees to be recorded in credit losses. The reduction in interest on late payments will make it possible to ease the situation of farmers with payment difficulties whose cash reserves are insufficient to pay the premiums by the due date. This measure is intended to prevent the debt spiral of enforcement or its increase, as well as poverty and human distress. Mr President! At the same time, the commitment of farmers to the pension system will be ensured at the right level. It is to be welcomed from the point of view of farmers as well as public finances to maintain employment income from MYEL insurance as stable as possible in the long term. This avoids the situation that an entrepreneur would try to reduce the amount of income from work if insurance premiums cannot be paid with actual employment income data. It should be borne in mind that the premium paid for real income also affects the amount of pension received in due course. Mr President! The Blue Group welcomes the government's proposal to reduce the interest on late payments in occupational pension insurance and group life insurance. As the market situation continues, we must support Finnish food production and food producers. Finnish food production, food supply is strongly related to security of supply issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u81	Mr President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support. It is sad that, last year, 4500 cases applied for a moratorium on MATA and MYEL payments. Is this performance relevant? It is part of the farmers' crisis package and, as a whole, this crisis package is already relevant. I would, however, like to see all the parts of it realised, even to the benefit of real estate tax, which I hope will be clarified whether it will succeed within the framework of the EU in us, just as it did in Sweden, so that the farms that invested will not be paid for the real estate tax increases. This has already become a good argument as to why farmers are in such a poor situation. It has been influenced by Russia's policy of sanctions, it has been influenced by the abolition of quotas, and it has been influenced by a distorted market. And what we could do most in this institution for farmers' livelihoods has already been decided jointly in the context of the food policy report: we are trying to influence the food market in such a way that price formation there would be fairer. It is great that the whole Parliament has committed itself to this, and I hope that this is something that will now be brought forward. Of course, it is also a good thing, for example, that money has been found in the budget for the Relay Farmer project, and the good thing is that we try to develop the relief system in such a way that farmers can do better.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u82	Mr President! A thing that could easily spread like Jokinen’s fins: there are a lot of good points here that should perhaps be extended beyond one industry. But it is particularly important for the government to drive this — and it seems that the whole Parliament, because the report has been done in a good spirit — because it is true that by its own reaction in the EU the country has brought this one group of traders into the greatest plight because of the sanctions imposed on Russia, which has been the counter-ball that came through the fact that Finland, as one of the EU's Member States, is actually going into this policy of sanctions by the United States.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u87	Mr President! I myself am used to taking a proper view of colleagues, but everyone, of course, in their style. Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Myllykoski pointed out that Finland would be involved in Russian sanctions because of the United States. Of course, this is not true; we are involved in it because of Russia. Russia's actions are the reason why Finland is involved in Russian sanctions. Russia violated all international agreements by conquering one part of an independent state, the Crimean peninsula. This type of thing cannot be sidelined, and that is why the EU, and Finland as part of it, are involved in these sanctions against Russia. And in my opinion, they must be involved as long as Russia continues to act in accordance with common agreements and rules of play and to respect the sovereign states. At least I would like and believe that Ukraine would have acted in the same way if Russia had robbed us of part of the territory of our sovereign country, as happened this time to Ukraine. Mr President! It is important to take care of Finnish food production, and it is good that these measures should come. This sector has been in an unreasonably tough situation, and now that there has been talk and talk of safety and also of various threats, Finnish food is also part of security of supply and, in that sense, an important piece of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u88	Mr President! I regret that I have behaved disrespectfully, but at this point I must say that Mr Heinonen is quite right about this point. I left where the coercive conversation started, and that was what I was going through. It is true that we cannot, of course, accept the actions of any country when the sovereignty of another country is violated. It's obvious. In that sense, I did not go to the debate here, but because of the way in which this was started and why we are in a situation where we are discussing here the very fact that this sector is in particular difficulties in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u89	Mr President! Therefore, the question of late interest is based on the law on interest rates and the level of interest is defined by law. From the 1990s, we remember interest rates of up to 16%, and many others have been, but such a reduction is not defined by law. By its own decision, she has reduced the interest rate on delays, as the challenging situation in agriculture has continued. That is why there is this fixed-term law in order to ensure that farmers pay an employment income premium on the basis of real income, so that the amount of work income would not be technically reduced, which would affect the amount of their future pension. There is no desire to do this, nor to do a decrease in working capacity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u90	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u91	Mr President! I now present to Parliament my bill of law on the amendment of Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. The bill deals with the prohibition of organised begging. As we all know, the maintenance of public order and security includes all public authority activities designed to create and maintain a safe living and working environment for members of society, to combat and prevent violations of justice and interference, to eliminate any disruptions that have occurred, and to resolve any violations of justice. One of the distractions that landed in Finland over the past ten years is organised begging. According to official estimates, there are hundreds of beggars in Finland every year, especially during the summer. In recent years, the phenomenon has expanded from the local phenomenon of the capital region to almost the whole country, including my country, Lapland. It has been stated that the Finnish Constitution guarantees everyone the right to beg and this right cannot be interfered with. On the other hand, in recent years the authorities have received indications that some of the begging in the country is organised by organised crime. This phenomenon can be tackled if it identifies the characteristics of trafficking in human beings, but otherwise our criminal law will not criminalise begging for economic gain. The beggars often run away from the bad living conditions of their homeland, but among them are those who go out to beg professionally and organizedly. The problem of beggars is best addressed by improving living conditions in the country of the beggars, but a ban on organised begging would eliminate professionalism and the exploitation associated with it. That would still not prevent any constitutional right to beg. It would interfere only in activities in which someone tries to benefit from the situation of a person in need. Mr President! By addressing organised begging, we would ensure that this is not in the hands of organised crime, and we would give a clear signal that this is not what we want in Finland. All of this could reduce the number of professional beggars arriving in Finland. At the same time, it would help to prevent organised crime behind this phenomenon and to eliminate its potential for earning money. The criminalisation of begging organisation is justified by the fact that this activity can be compared on good grounds to mating. Finally, I would like to thank all the more than 80 Members of Parliament from all parties except the RKP, who have signed this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I myself have been in favour of banning begging in the past and I am still in favour of it, but I also support this initiative by Mr Kärnä to amend Chapter 17 of the Penal Code, I am one of the signatories of the bill. It is justifiable to make this correction to criminalise begging organised in criminal law, that is to say to prevent one of the problems of begging, that is to say criminal activity, which is what is behind it. This bill states that the Finnish Constitution would guarantee everyone the right to beg and would also have stated that this right could not be interfered with. I myself have not interpreted or understood the situation in this way, nor has the Constitutional Committee, as far as I am aware, taken such a position, that begging cannot be denied and that it would be unconstitutional. This refusal to beg must therefore continue to be kept in the debate, even if this motion by Mr Kärnä is moving forward, and we hope that progress will be made. As far as I know, only a few constitutional experts have raised constitutional problems with the ban on begging. After all, in the Helsingin Sanomat — once this matter has been dealt with in public — two experts intervened and said, among other things, that it is very difficult for Martin Schein to see that the result could be other than legislation that discriminates against the Roma, and Professor Tuomas Ojanen continued that the law would actually discriminate against the Roma who were begging for it. If this is the interpretation that the prohibition of begging would be contrary to the Constitution, I am surprised, for begging would be prohibited by this law, which is what the government has also proposed in the past. And Professor Tuomas Ojanen states that in the European Convention on Human Rights the prohibition of discrimination is so absolute that it is not even possible to deviate from it under exceptional circumstances, such as during and away from the war. That is why I would ask, and I am surprised that quite a few other European countries have been able to ban begging. In Norway, for example, in 2014, large towns passed a law that allows municipalities to ban begging in their territory. In Denmark, which was the basis of a previous government proposal, begging is prohibited by criminal law throughout the country. In the Netherlands, too, a municipality can ban begging in its territory; in Great Britain begging is prohibited by law in the whole country; in Spain there are bans on begging. In Austria, regulations have been adopted at state level and organised begging is prohibited, and in Switzerland too, decision-making power is exercised by local government and begging is prohibited in several regions. I therefore wonder that a ban on begging would therefore be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights if these countries, however, had been able to do so. Mr President! Why, then, am I in favour of a ban on begging more widely than just the criminalisation of this organisation, which is highlighted in this draft law? For me, the starting point is that we have a welfare society in Finland, where no one should have to beg to live. That is one starting point. The second is where Mr Kärnä's bill is going, that is to say, this crime that is around here. There are already two strong arguments that I believe that begging should be banned. Begging in public places is not a decent way to make a living, and that is, for example, the third reason why begging should be criminalised. Government proposal 330/2010 vp was based on our criminalization of begging. I have not understood that this government proposal would have been declared unconstitutional, at least for the time being, but that this government proposal lapsed because it was given so close to the elections. This would, in fact, be directly prepared legislation, which would be worth introducing, which will help these people who are currently begging there, forced by others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u93	Mr President! My speech is divided into two parts, the first of which I shall try to clarify and question the fact-finding problems associated with the initiative and the second part, in particular the problems relating to pimping legislation, because the model for this bill has been introduced from the point of view of pimping legislation and has major weaknesses. First of all, the initiative states that in the last ten years a disturbing phenomenon, organised begging, has landed in Finland. This does not specify what this frighteningly-sounding organized begging is, but in practice it is a question of people coming to beg often coming into the country as family communities, as researcher Jenni Lehtonen says in 2016. It is not a matter of extensive international crime-organised activity, but very typically of family and family cooperation in this type of culture. If the author of the bill has any information on this organisation other than the information that has been available to the public, I would very much like to know more than vague references to some official information. Here, too, the estimate is that there will be hundreds of beggars in Finland, especially during the summer. However, if we are to be precise, it is good to note that we do not have hundreds of beggars. We have hundreds of people from Bulgaria and Romania, some of whom beg. Others then do other things, sell the Big Number in the streets, sell flowers, collect bottles, also do small crimes, what everyone does, but we do not have hundreds of beggars in Finland. This is reminded, among other things, by the interview with Olli Sal, Chairman of the Beggars' Group. Furthermore, now that this cooperation between family communities is banned, the initiative says that this would still not prevent individual people from begging. Yes, it would. In other words, if a strict ban on organisation were to be imposed as strict as the law suggests, these people would not have the opportunity to come to Finland. They get to Finland precisely because they move as family communities with their cars loaded and thus get the travel costs printed so low that they can travel so far from home at all. In practice, therefore, an effective ban on organisation would mean that begging, at least for people from other parts of the world, would be prohibited.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kärnä has taken the initiative on an important issue and this initiative has a good purpose. However, I myself could not sign the initiative because the explanatory statement states: 'The Finnish Constitution guarantees everyone the right to beg, and it has been stated that this right cannot be interfered with'. I cannot find it myself, and I have read the Constitution a number of times, there is an act that would ban begging, and I do not know where it would have been said that this right cannot be interfered with, at least not in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will return to this legal constitutional aspect in a moment. Before that, let me say a few things. Firstly, with regard to Mr Kontula's excellent speech, I would say that the border between the refusal of begging and the ban on such organised begging, which Mr Kärnä is obviously seeking here, and the problems associated with it, are best resolved in such a way that, when the Committee on Legal Affairs deals with this initiative, it ends up in total refusal of begging, so that these border crossing problems mentioned by Mr Kontula would not exist. But, Mr President, before that: why am I in favour of banning begging? Quite a lot on the same basis as what Mr Heinonen has pointed out here. First of all, begging is not a decent way to support oneself. Sitting or half-country on an icy street asking passersby for money is not a decent way to support oneself. And there is no point in saying that the lives of these beggars in Romania or Bulgaria, being oppressed, discriminated against, even as people belonging to the Roma minority, are not so dignified. Unfortunately this is true, but the fact that that life there is not very decent, is not a reason for us to allow this kind of anti-human dignity to support ourselves in Finland. Yes, perhaps as a brutal comparison, I should like to say that, according to press reports, there are underage children in St. Petersburg who are selling themselves on the street. Well, that is no reason for us in Helsinki to allow underage children from there to sell themselves on the street on the grounds that their life there in St. Petersburg is no better than that. The second reason I want to ban begging is rather principled. Finland has been working for decades, in this hall our predecessors have been working for decades to become a welfare society in which no one has to beg to live. And this is what we've come to. We have reached a situation where no one in Finland has to beg for a living. And once we have achieved this, I think it would be really inappropriate — and it is inappropriate — for us to welcome people from other countries, Europe or the world to beg for Finland. The third reason is that this phenomenon also involves the exploitation of these begging people in Finland, and the fourth reason is that this phenomenon often also involves different forms of minor or sometimes larger secondary crime. This is often answered when I want to deny begging that denying begging does not solve the problems of discrimination and uncomfortable poverty in the countries of origin. Well, of course, denying begging in Finland will not solve these problems, but will permitting begging in Finland solve these problems? No, it's not. It's the opposite. If begging is allowed in Finland and other countries, the more zealously the governments of Bulgaria and Romania and other countries will be able to evict these people from their own country to seek their livelihood from other countries by begging. The solution to the problem itself is, of course, precisely because it is shameful that we have Member States in the European Union, such as Bulgaria and Romania, who do not treat their own Roma people in a manner that respects human rights and human dignity. It should be resolved by pressure from the EU and otherwise. That is the solution to this problem. Well, as far as this constitutional interpretation is concerned, where did Mr Kärnä get the impression that the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to beg and that it would have been established that that right cannot be interfered with? I think that there may be a debate in public in due course, to which Mr Heinonen has already referred. So in Helsingin Sanomat in July 2010, a couple of leading constitutional experts, Martin Schein and Tuomas Ojanen, unambiguously, you can say, started from the fact that the Finnish Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights prevent begging from being banned because such denial would be discrimination. That thought arose from the fact that, although the formal prohibition of begging applies to everyone — on which Mr Heinonen has just argued — it is essentially directed at the Roma in Bulgaria and Romania, and in that sense it is discriminatory legislation. Well, this argument is absurd. I immediately think of a number of things that are prohibited by law or that are under discussion, in which the law formally applies to everyone in Finland but actually affects some minorities. In the last few weeks, for example, there has been a debate about the need to criminalise female genital mutilation by a separate law, which has now been criminalised on the basis of general legislation on abuse, thus criminalising female genital mutilation by a separate law. This has been called for, among other things, by the Ombudsman for Children, and has been supported at least by the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. Who is the subject of such a law? In principle, anyone whose genitals are mutilated, but in practice to those minorities in Finland who have had such an ancient culture, in our view, a practice that violates human dignity and human rights, i.e. mainly immigrants from East Africa. Then we have criminalised the use of general drug law, for example, the use of cane chewing. It's criminal. Well, who's it targeting? Well, although formally targeted at everyone, is it not in practice directed at those who come mainly from eastern Africa, where katopie is commonly used? Let me give you an example. The Finnish animal welfare debate has called for a ban on Jewish slaughter and Islamic slaughter. I think it has been demanded by the Finns and at least by certain animal protection circles. I therefore believe that if Finnish legislation wants to ban Islamic and/or Jewish slaughter, it can of course do so. But if it were to be done and if we followed this logic of Schein and Ojane, it would also apply to all of us in Finland. But would it not in practice target the Jews and Muslims here who want to eat meat slaughtered in accordance with their own culture and religion? In other words, I find this argument by Mr Schein and Mr Ojanen totally unacceptable, and Mr Heinonen here listed a number of countries which are committed to the European Convention on Human Rights and in which begging is prohibited, either directly by law or through regional legislation under the law. Well, is it the case that in these countries — Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, England, Spain and so on — there are more incompetent human rights and constitutional experts than in Finland, less alert professors than in Finland? Or are they even dumber than our schininis and ditches?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u99	Mr President! I, together with other representatives of the Finnish People's Republic and a few other representatives, submitted a bill last year that would have banned all-looking begging in public places, but it was not successful either. The current law of order, which entered into force in 2003, only allows for disturbing begging. However, it was possible to ban begging in previous municipal regulations. The number of beggars in Finland has increased significantly over the past few years, and this number is likely to continue to increase, which is reflected in the street view, especially in the capital region, but also elsewhere in Finland. Begging is an organised activity and involves trafficking in human beings, child abuse, prostitution and other aspects of organised crime. Criminal organisations, for example, lend Romanian Roma high-interest travel money, forcing them to be beggars, street players, drug dealers and even prostitutes in Finland. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the money received in this way goes largely to organised criminal organisations. Allowing begging in Finland does not reduce the problems, poverty and discrimination of beggars from abroad in the countries of origin, but rather increases them by exposing them to various forms of exploitation. Most of the beggars are made up of people belonging to the Roma minority in Bulgaria and Romania. It is the duty of Romania and Bulgaria themselves to look after their own citizens, not Finns. The residence of the citizens of these countries in Finland excludes these people from the authorities of all countries and exempts the national administrations of the countries of origin from their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u100	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their good views in this debate. To Mr Kontula, I would like to say how I myself woke up to this phenomenon and why I wanted this bill to be drafted: The reason was the visit of the Legal Committee to Romania. There we talked with the local authorities, talked with the embassies, also talked with local human rights organisations, and everywhere it was recognised that this begging, which is also happening in Finland, has been organised for a very large part and a great deal of the proceeds from these people in need are being poured into the hands of organised crime in the countries of origin. There, too, many people are living wide at the moment, benefiting from the plight of others. That is why I wanted to bring this bill before Parliament. To the representatives of Heinonen and Zyskowicz: I would also like to thank you for these views. I myself am prepared to go further on this subject if it is really stated that this is possible under our Constitution. Mr Zyskowicz is quite right that I have just based this assessment on the views of the constitutional experts Ojane and Schein, who were strongly involved in the public debate on this issue. However, I also recognise that the wording of the initiative was now in place and I am trying to ensure that we can sign, as far as possible, across the party boundaries, regardless of whether we consider Ojanen and Schein's assessment to be correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u101	Mr President! In my own fact check list, I did not intervene in the Constitution because, in my view, the situation is open. It is true that no authoritarian party in Finland has taken a position as to whether or not the criminalisation of begging would be in violation of the Constitution, but it is also not that Zyskowicz’s argument itself is sufficient to refute another’s argument in this matter. Personally, I would urge those who want to think about this and think it over, to get to know Haaste magazine from the year 2011, Ari Hirvonen's writing there. It is quite condensed with those arguments, which is why he believes that it is not possible in Finland without a constitutional amendment to introduce a ban on begging. I personally consider this question a little secondary at the moment because we have so many other reasons, which is why the ban on begging should not be applied. Let's go to these other reasons: It has been suggested here that begging should be banned because begging is not decent. Well, this is something on which at least all the beggars I know agree quite much with Mrs Zyskowicz. They also believe that sitting in the ground, in the rain and in the locust all day long with daily earnings of less than EUR 20 is not a decent thing to do. The problem is that they have no better choice; it is the best option available to them. If we take away the best option from them or make it even a little more unpleasant than the best option, what will it be after they have to fear the police and then pay fines for some of their profits? At least it doesn't make their lives any more dignified. The second thing is to appeal to Finland to work hard to ensure that there is no need to beg in this country: Indeed, it is an honorable history, one of the great achievements of this country, but it was not achieved by bans. For centuries we had bans on begging and, at the same time, huge numbers of beggars. We did not get rid of begging because beggars were punished, but because people had other options, better alternatives than sitting there in the gutter on less than 20 euros a day. As far as related crime is concerned, this already requires a wider discussion of some groups where beggars may know people who may be involved in petty crime. According to the police, beggars themselves are not guilty of crimes. I agree that begging as such does not solve the lives of these people, perhaps surviving the winter for a single person, but certainly not the root causes for which people are begging. On the other hand, prohibiting begging would exacerbate the problems, further weakening the already small chips that these people have at their disposal. I personally wonder how, from one century to the next, bourgeoisies are able to tempt those who are the weakest and smallest and who are worse off anyway. You wouldn't find any bigger resistance? These claims, which were made in the statement of the Finns of Peru, about the significant benefits in the countries of origin, in the context of begging for serious criminal activity: Now that we remember what the proceeds of begging in Finland are, there is not a very big house built anywhere in the world. If you personally think that you should pay for those gasses here in Finland and then buy some food every day just to keep you alive, even if you can get 20 euros on a good day, then the police will base their assessment on the fact that it is not about people who are organized by organised crime, precisely that it does not work. It doesn't leave enough money to make it profitable. This is one of the reasons why the comparison with pimping is lame. In half an hour, a sex worker can put together what a beggar can do in a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u102	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, I shall try to respond to some of the points made by Mr Kontula. As far as this constitutional aspect is concerned, Mr Kontula, if I heard correctly, already said in his interlude that these other countries — Norway and Denmark and England and Spain and so on — have different constitutions. I think that, if we compare the word with the word, that certainly is the case, but I myself think, and I know little about it, that in all the countries where we belong to the Council of Europe, we belong to the European Union or otherwise we are European civilised states, discrimination is prohibited in all those countries. I believe that in all these countries there are provisions in the Constitution which correspond to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 of our Constitution, which therefore concern equality and the prohibition of discrimination. If you claim that our Constitution prevents the prohibition of begging in Finland, then the burden of proof, Mr Kontula, is for those who claim to do so, because I am not able to find a single point in our Constitution which in some way would lead you to conclude that we, the parliament elected by the Finnish people, to whom the law belongs in Finland, could not legislate against begging in Finland. As far as these grounds for refusal and the arguments put forward therein are concerned, Mr Kontula agreed that begging sitting on the street is not a decent way to make a living, but his counterargument was that it is the best option they have. As I said in my speech, we could imagine a situation where street children come from St. Petersburg and their best option to make a living is to sell themselves on the streets of Helsinki, as they are used to doing on the streets of St. Petersburg — that is, some years ago I read about this in the papers. It cannot then be said that 'yes we must allow the sale of minors on the streets of Helsinki, because that is the best option they have, that their lives in Finland and Helsinki under these conditions are better than their lives in those subway tunnels and other places in St. Petersburg'. So if we think about Finnish society and think about this attitude, then we need to assess whether it is an activity that we want to allow in Finland. As for the fact that it is the best option they have, it may be true, but it comes to these root causes. I believe that the fact that Romania and Bulgaria are leaving, I do not know, by the thousands, perhaps, for people from all over Europe to beg will reduce the pressure on their societies there to correct the problems there. If these people could not go to other countries to beg, then I believe that it would increase the pressure in these societies to correct these problems, and, furthermore, I am sure that we will agree with Mr Kontula, the European Union and the Member States of the European Union should be much more vigorous in both exerting pressure and supporting these countries and the minorities of these countries, so that the treatment of minorities in these countries, such as the Roma minority, is decent and respectful of human rights. Representative Kontula, in passing, mentioned the payment of fines. It is quite clear that it is not the intention that these poor people should be fined, but it is the intention, if begging is prohibited in Finland, that these people do not come to Finland to beg, because if they sit on the street begging in Finland, it won't be long before the police come and tell them to move, get up and move, because begging is forbidden in Finland. In other words, Mr Kontula, it is not the intention to fine people, but to prevent and interfere with begging in such a way that they do not come to Finland to beg, because begging here is difficult when the police come to tell you to leave the begging room immediately. President! Finally, this argument that we have not made Finnish society one where there is no need to beg, by denying begging. No, and here too we agree with Mr Kontula. Finnish society has been made so that there is no need to beg here, by building such a Finnish welfare society, such services, such transfers, such a life in Finland that no one in Finland has to beg to stay alive. We, or our predecessors, have built such a Finnish society, and I think it is a tremendous achievement, as Mr Kontula also said. And when we have achieved this wonderful achievement, I just find it quite absurd that we then allow people from other countries to come here to beg when we have succeeded in making a society where no one has to beg and fall into this sort of anti-humane livelihood. Mr. Speaker! For these reasons, I am sure we will all agree in the Finnish Parliament, and I hope that the Union and the Member States of the Union will be able to exert pressure and help Romania and Bulgaria in such a way that the treatment of the Roma minority there will be respectful of human dignity and that these people will be helped there in their own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u103	Mr President! Finland built a welfare state where no one has to beg. Then came the 1990s, came the recession, became EU membership, became globalisation, became a world where people move and capital move. The fact is that we no longer live in a world in which no one has to beg, and this fact does not go away by denying it. I am confused that someone in a positive tone is talking about the fact that we need the police to disturb poor people, but of course that is not the case. These legislative proposals, what has been done to ban begging or today, are not only a question of the police asking kindly to move, but also a question of sanctions being imposed if this is not done. These penalties are likely to be primarily fines — which means that we have to beg even more for fines, or alternatively for non-payment — or, in the alternative, imprisonment, which may already be used in Denmark, for example, today. They are one of the activities that, in fact, much was used in Finland in the Middle Ages. Then it was discovered that punishing poverty is not a good thing, that we prefer to try this welfare state route, which suddenly worked where the ban had not worked. Of street children in St. Petersburg: First of all, talking about selling yourself in connection with a sex trade is a language that I would not wish to hear in this Chamber. It is reflected directly in the old idea of the condensation of a woman’s ego into her genitals and virginity and beyond the past, at a time when women were condemned as witches. This is the etymological background. As far as the politician is concerned, he sells himself, but the use of such a language in connection with the sex trade is extremely problematic. But if children from St.Petersburg, for example, came here to sell sex, it is likely that child welfare would intervene in the Finnish system. The aim would be to arrange conditions for these children not to sell sex on our streets, and those who would be punished for it, who would be fined, would not be the children of St. Petersburg, but possibly cared for by the people who bought this sex. I, too, believe that it is important to increase pressure on countries which do not respect human rights and which place their own population in a poor position, but it is unreasonable, in my opinion, to impose that pressure by further weakening the position of people whose best option today is to sit on the streets in the rain. Do we really not have any stronger shoulders in this EU community that could act as mediators of its pressure? Is it true that the pressure must be exerted through the suffering of those who already have enough to do with survival in this life? Finally, on the question of the Constitution: as I said in my previous speech, I do not take a position on whether it is unconstitutional or possible to criminalise begging within the framework of the Constitution, but it is quite clear that the constitutions are country-specific, certainly based on international agreements, and so they should be examined country by country. It is precisely on this issue that I understand the argument has gone through the fact that, in practice, we are asking for members of a particular group, it causes that element of discrimination. If, in another society, beggars come from several different groups of people, perhaps then the question settles in another way, I do not know. But when we do not in general judge the Constitution on the basis of how it is done in the Netherlands or Denmark, why should it be done at this point — especially when our Constitution is much more progressive than in those countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u104	Mr President! A few more counterarguments: That we no longer live in such a Finland: Yes, Mr Kontula, we live in a Finland where no one has to beg for a living. And a ban on begging in such a situation is well founded, because, as I have said, begging is not a decent way of making a living. As far as this police and fines are concerned, I think, and on my hip, I recall that there are regulations already in some police law or elsewhere that the police should first try to resolve the situation and not go straight to the fine — it may be that motorists have little other experience — that is, in practice, it would be precisely to intervene, when the jungle drum tells us that it is not worth going to Finland to beg, because there is no need to beg in peace. As for this self-selling, I took this terminology from some media. These underage children are often also boys, so I am not quite sure that this is condensed with some of the genitals of witches and women, but if that concept and terminology are bad in this way, it is all right to give up using such terminology. Well, then, with regard to the fact that this is the best option they have: the best option is for these root causes to be addressed in the country of origin, and the more and more necessary they need to be addressed, the less these people can go elsewhere and beg. And then to this discriminatory legislation: Yes, Mr Kontula, we are also looking at solutions from other countries and the European Court of Human Rights. And the argument that this is discriminatory, because in practice it is mainly directed at the Roma — in my speech, I have shown that there are numerous situations in which legislation is actually targeted at some, and that is why it is not discriminatory.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u105	Mr President! I would simply say that the idea that a phenomenon such as begging will disappear by denying is simply not acceptable to any kind of truth test. In countries where begging is prohibited, begging has not disappeared. It did not disappear from Finland, it has not disappeared from Great Britain, it has not disappeared from Denmark, where at least people can be imprisoned. Begging doesn't go away by denying it. If this were to work, it would have been solved hundreds of years ago. In some places, begging has been made to disappear in certain societies, but at that time the means have been far from bans. In fact, the only society in which I know that the bans have been curbed has been Germany in the 1930s, but then the means were such that hardly any of us want to go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u106	Mr President! What would be the significance of prohibiting begging in Finland from the point of view of this phenomenon? Yes, I personally believe that if it were not allowed to beg in Finland, there would not be a few people begging on every street corner in the heart of Helsinki, because the message that the police in Finland will be evicted from the people sitting in the country begging would go to the countries of origin. Then these people would prefer, I understand, to go to countries and places where begging is allowed without the authorities trying to disturb or prevent it. It may be that Mr Kontula is right that such a ban would not eliminate this phenomenon in its entirety, but I personally believe that this ban would at least significantly reduce begging in Finland. We agree that Finnish society has become such that no one here has to beg to make a living. The Finnish society has become so precisely because social safety nets and a welfare society have been built to ensure people's livelihood, i.e. survival, without begging. In fact, this is also true for these beggars from other parts of Europe. They would be entitled to a certain minimum level of social security in Finland, but they do not do so because of the fact that they continue to rely on social security in Finland as a basis for their removal from the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-14-ps-87.u107	Yes, it is true that the beggars would not then sit in our street picture when begging would be banned as described by Mrs Zyskowicz. They'd be standing because standing there, they'd get away faster when that cop showed up. In those countries where this has been done, the system works in such a way that the parade streets on which, for example, Mrs Zyskowicz is likely to walk to work are considered clean from beggars and other undesirable groups with police force, but because the police cannot be everywhere and the police sometimes have to focus on serious, real crime, the police cannot be everywhere. In such a case, begging is transferred to areas and places which are not considered to be so relevant by the reputation of the city or by the decision-makers' routes that they wish to be protected separately. This has been the case all over the world, and now it would take more than strong faith to prove why Finland would be some kind of exception in these general lending practices. Where police harassment and such bans have been in force for longer, beggars and similar groups have developed different alarm systems to ensure that both police and police groups are able to fit in the same space. In many countries the law of police harassment has also led to corruption in the police and there are bad cops and serious problems due to these rights. Hopefully, we will never see these in the same extent in Finland. But nowhere has there been such a development,
