ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I present the third amending budget for this year to Parliament. The state of our central government and economy is still very positive. According to this year's growth forecast, the last, or September's forecast, predicts an increase of 2.9 percentage points for this year. The change from one year ago is therefore significant. This means that employment is improving at the moment, exports are pulling, investments are starting to grow, and perhaps a welcome element is that R & D investments have also started to grow, which means that faith in the future is strong, but we can also believe in the future, because companies invest in research and product development. It is an investment in future jobs, in future well-being. Good economic activity has an impact on public finances, which means that government debt has fallen. In the actual budget for 2017, we still estimate this year's debt by EUR 5.6 billion, which has now decreased by 1.1 billion. This year's debt is now estimated at EUR 4.5 billion. It is gratifying that it is less than estimated, but I would like to underline that it is still EUR 4.5 billion, which is a huge amount of money to be paid by future taxpayers. Good positive developments for next year will continue. The amount of debt is estimated at EUR 3 billion. However, this rate is not enough to allow the government to achieve its objective of ending debt in 21 C.E. Although we are well on our way to achieving this goal, it still requires a continuation of a tight fiscal policy, a continuation of work, a strengthening of the basis for economic growth. Mr President! We must continue to remember that the biggest economic policy errors are usually made during the booming period. That is why we cannot afford to loosen up now, but this amending budget has also been made in a spirit of responsible economic policy. Something is illustrated by the fact that the whole undivided reserve of the amending budget was not used for new expenditure increases, but that the reserve was saved by EUR 45 million, which will be transferred to the undivided reserve for next year's amending budgets. This decision also underscores the fact that the proposal has been made in accordance with strict expenditure discipline. The reduction in unemployment is reflected, among other things, in the fact that the reduction in unemployment expenditure makes it possible to reduce the level of unemployment security by EUR 35 million. In total, these proposals increase the need for central government debt by EUR 106 million. However, the demand for debt is more than one billion lower than was estimated last year. Now we have to raise 100 million, but we remain within the framework of the government's own strict economic policy framework. The biggest increases are made in support of employment and growth. The maritime cluster of Western Finland has become one of the key sectors that are currently driving Finland’s strong economic growth and export growth. This is why an amount of around EUR 30 million is proposed for innovation aid for shipbuilding, with the aim of supporting the strengthening of industrial innovation and international competitiveness. The availability of skilled labour is becoming a major bottleneck for our growth. It would be very unfortunate if this emerging economic growth — or strong economic growth at the moment — were to be cut back on the fact that companies are not gaining skilled labour. For this purpose, the Government will offer EUR 10 million for conversion training for higher education graduates. The aim is to enable 550 students to participate in conversion training and to find employment in the growth sectors affected by labour shortages. In particular, training in the field of technology, the field of ict, is at stake. This is the case at the moment, if you look at the need for labour, especially in the Jyväskylä and Oulu regions, if some of you pick up from there. [Department : What about the Nation? ] Mr President! In my earlier work as Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, I came to understand the difficult situation and difficult situation of our farmers and producers. The harvest season has been exceptionally difficult due to rain and cold air. That is why the government has decided to support farmers in difficult situations with EUR 25 million to support farmers through the energy tax refund system. A further EUR 15 million will be allocated, in addition to which EUR 10 million will be re-allocated from Makera. This decision is taken in the supplementary proposal, but it is reflected in the amending budget as a change in the timetable for the capitalisation of Makera. In addition, a specific contribution of EUR 1 million has been made to the Farmer Care project. We know that farmers who are in a difficult situation with difficulties of profitability face very great mental pressures and difficulties. That is why this has been made a special focus.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u3	Now is the time to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u4	Mr President! Unfortunately, despite economic growth, there are reasonably dark clouds in the air. Today we have just heard that the government is not going to achieve its employment objective, and even the deficit is only temporary in this perspective. That is why, President, it is particularly important that, under these circumstances, the government should make a policy such as that of improving employment and that the growth that is now coming should also belong to everyone and be distributed more equally. That is why, Mr President, I am very concerned that the current economic policy choices seem to be lacking the heart of the government. Growth certainly does not belong to everyone, cuts from the weakest are today, and at the same time, it seems that money is sufficient for the most inefficient tax cuts in terms of employment policy. In this context, Mr Orpo, I would like to remind you: could you reconsider?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u5	Mr President! You quite rightly said, Minister of Finance, that due to very exceptional weather conditions, the time for harvesting agriculture has been very bad. Many farmers have had to fight windmills. It has been very difficult both mentally and physically. Therefore, the creation of a belief in the future from the Finnish Parliament and Government is particularly important in this situation. Therefore, these efforts, which have been made, can encourage those people who are going to be very little this year, however, to be prepared to face new challenges. Therefore, investments in the development fund and also in profitability are very important. This should be given:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u6	Mr President! I would also like to start by thanking you for this agricultural crisis package. This was strongly raised a few weeks ago by the True Finns, and hopefully it was also here to inspire the matter. A few weeks ago, I asked Mr Orpo and the Prime Minister about the cost calculations relating to immigration. They've already been promised in the government program. As we can see here, there are 12.3 million increases, and it is said that there have been a larger number of people in the reception. When are we going to get these clarifications? Now, in a certain way, we are doing this, so to speak, a little blind, when we do not seem to have any idea how much is going to go on these things, and it is always being moved, the latest time, I guess, was supposed to be in the spring. Indeed, I asked questions a few weeks ago, and Mr Hakkarainen also asked, but we did not get an answer as to when it would be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u7	Mr President! Little must be surprised to hear Mr Viitane speak — these fruits of economic growth, which now come from a different kind of economic policy than when the Minister for Finance was from the Social Democrats, seem to taste sour. After all, the solution was to raise taxes on fifty-fifty, and now the solution — when there is a co-operative finance minister in our country — has been that the overall tax rate is not going up and the taxation of labour is not being tightened up, that is to say, it has started to think about this issue through work. And now, after a ten-year break, we have a wide-ranging growth in the country, thanks to good economic policy and also to a good international bet. I would also like to thank Mr President for taking into account the difficult situation of Finnish agriculture, an exceptionally difficult autumn. Thank you Minister Levä for the extra effort in Finnish food production. It's a little help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u8	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing that the economic and employment situation is developing in a positive direction, and for this a big thank you, of course, for the economic upturn in the international economy, which Finland was able to absorb with all the lime lines. Thank you, too, for the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which has prevented a major financial crisis. But we cannot lull into such positive external levers, and that is why attention must now be paid above all to structural, major reforms and, above all, to reforms that will increase employment. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Orpo: the government has talked a lot about the reduction in the number of unemployed job seekers, which is a good thing, but much less has been said about the increase in the number of people employed. The number of employed persons has not increased in nearly the same proportion. What are the key employment policy measures that will enable the number of people employed to be increased?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u9	Mr President! Direct answer to representative Aalto: According to the Labour Force Survey, employment has increased by about 34,000 during this Government term. There are at least 34,000 people who can say in their own case that they have been positively affected by this boom. If you look at employment services statistics, there are 54,000 fewer unemployed job seekers than one year ago. But, indeed, during this entire reign, 34,000 more jobs will be employed. I must join Mr Heinonen in his surprise about Mr Viitanen's speech. Yes, we are tax-critical in the Blue Future, and I understand that the Socialists are not. You're red on the top and red on the inside. I don't know what fruit it is. Tell it to me. But the story of this fruit, this basket, at least begins to emerge in the opposition gradually that who is where. EUR 1.2 billion in tax reductions thanks to this government. I think the middle class will thank you for that. And while the emphasis is still on low incomes and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u11	Mr President! There are a lot of positive things in the air: the economy is turning, exports are pulling, and so is employment. But we have one thing that we must all be concerned about, namely how the agricultural sector can and can cope with. In addition to economic opportunities, agriculture is about security of supply in our country. Economic crises and armed conflicts can very quickly significantly reduce global food production, so we cannot be lulled on the fact that we can obtain cheap food and energy from abroad in all situations. In order to ensure security of supply, we need viable agriculture, decentralised energy production and a vibrant countryside. After all, there will not be any immediate rise in the number of farms that have been stopped and agricultural and food production that has been driven down. It is good that the government has decided on the emergency package and will provide EUR 25 million in additional support for agriculture. But is that enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u12	Mr President! There are a lot of good things in this additional budget, but I will just focus on the agricultural section. It is a good thing that the distress that the farmers who have been affected by the loss have now been heard. This roof was especially faced with North Karelia, North Savo, Central Finland and the region from there to Oulu. I have stood on the edge of the field of a genuine oat farmer myself, where the farmer said that the losses amounted to about EUR 200,000 over a few days of heavy rain. That is why it is important that we try to target this aid there as much as possible, to the right targets, and I think that this energy tax refund is reasonably targeted. It is, of course, difficult to target, but it is very good that it is not done with a wide brush, for example only for all support hectares. Then it wouldn't do any good. It is also important that negotiations be held in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u13	Mr President! The economy is growing, the cuts are continuing, and it is a legitimate question that the government repeatedly does not answer here, and that is whether growth belongs to everyone. Congressman Elo, you're cultivating these fruit parables. If I were you, I would focus on the fruits that are now coming, and the question is whether they belong to everyone. Last week it was seen that the government finally and finally gave in to the intention to impose a property tax, and now that it has been shown that changes can be made to taxation in this house, Mr President, Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, I ask you: do you think that growth is a part of all families with children? So not just for those whose children are in day care, but for all families with children? In our opinion, growth is also a matter for middle-income families with children, and I ask: Mr Orpo, would it be appropriate for you if the tax evasion of families with children were to be cancelled here in Parliament, as was the case with this compulsory increase in property tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u14	Mr President! Generally speaking, the part of the opposition here in Parliament is quite easy, is reproached and insulted by everyone, but when you listen to what Mr Viitanen and Mr Aalto have said, it seems that the part of the opposition is now a little more difficult: the economy is growing, employment is improving, unemployment is falling, consumer confidence is growing, the confidence of businesses and entrepreneurs is getting stronger, that is to say, it is doing better in this respect. This is not, of course, solely due to the government of our country, but it is quite dishonest to claim that the government's policy, which has created stability and predictability, which has supported employment and entrepreneurship, would have made any difference in achieving Finland's growth. This line of work, which seeks not to tighten the taxation of work, is a very important part of government policy and has shown its success, and it is a good thing to continue on this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u15	Mr President! It is good that farmers are supported by this amount of money. During the weekend I visited Northern Savo and Siilinjärvi, among others, and heard these stories about what the situation is currently with the farmer. According to Statistics Finland’s Labour Force Survey, the number of unemployed persons was 10,000 higher in September than one year ago, i.e. these figures are worrying. The additional budget will provide additional resources for immigration and the costs involved, and I would like to ask the Minister: When, among other things, the Luona company, the company that ran the reception centres, forged a turnover of 50 million with this centre of reception, this raises questions that the need is indeed moneyed out. In what way will it be ensured in the future that such things will not happen? Has the situation begun to be followed closely? This information was in today's Helsingin Sanomat and has added
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u16	President! The '50s pamflatist wrote with a rubric, which is also current today: 'Does our country have the patience to prosper?' Now we're on the ridge of the temple. We can either rumble the ball into our own paint or stabilize the growth path we are now on. This conversion training is really great. It can even be called innovation, and it is hoped that it will be extended to many regions. It is true that this additional budget, as in the actual budget for next year, has a lot of things to strengthen the prospects for hope. For too long we have been in a situation where the government has had no room for manoeuvre. It's just that we've had to deal with things that fall on top of us. But now there is at least a little chance of aligning and thereby building justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u17	Mr President! However, the critical speeches that Mr Heinonen should now stop to listen to in the Committee on Finance must be borne in mind, when we are very much applauded and praised for the tax cuts in this government, which come from the professor level, including the fact that the income tax cuts carried out increased the sustainability gap and increased the need for adjustment measures for the second half of the government term. So there are also these consequences. And another: on the basis of estimates by research institutes, the increase in demand for labour is not enough to compensate for the reduction in tax revenues from tax reductions to public finances, even in the long term. In other words, these tax reductions, which were made only because employers' social contributions were passed on to employees, which had to be compensated for by tax reductions, also have negative effects in this cyclical situation in terms of the sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u18	To this point, I would like to give the floor to Mr Koski, Mr Anttila and Mr Rinne. Then we'll take the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u19	Mr President! It is good that the difficult harvest situation is recognised. It is also important that Minister Orpo has also contributed to Minister Leppa's work by discussing the matter with Commissioner Hogan for Agriculture. This energy tax refund: In the event of an exceptional harvest, the drying costs of cereals have also increased, at least doubled. The refund of energy tax is a good example of how subsidies can be targeted in such a way that the farmer is actually allowed to keep the amount of the increased cost tax to himself. Mr President, I would now like to ask the following question: How will the government also pay attention to farmers who have not been able to harvest the crop at all? When does the government intend to align state guarantees with holdings in exceptional situations of payment difficulties?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u20	Mr President! Finnish agriculture is in a very similar situation this autumn as it was 30 years ago, which I well remember, in the autumn of 1987. Then the Finnish army also rushed to help with harvesting. Finnish food production and securing its future is the most important task of today's decision-makers in the world facing climate change. We simply cannot afford to allow food production to fall too low, because it is now 150 years ago and we do not want to experience it in the future. Against this background, it is quite right that the government has taken action, and I hope that in the future we will continue to monitor very closely how the economic situation and distress of farmers develops. Now, just as Minister Leppä has said, we must get the banks, the landlords, the suppliers, all together to help in the economic challenge that is there today. We have no choice but to preserve the future of Finnish food production for the next generations, and that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u21	Mr President! The period of this government has also been a very exceptional period for people in paid employment, students, unemployed, pensioners and families with children. These groups have been subject to significant cuts in income. At present there are pensioners who find that they have to choose between food and medicine. It is good that the need for farmers has been taken into account in this additional budget, but it is also important that these other groups are taken into account. Mr Orpo, I would like to ask you in exactly the same way as Mr Lindtman asked: will it be all right for you here in Parliament to correct the taxation of families with children, the taxation which you are now tightening up next year by one per cent for families with two children? Are you prepared for Parliament to make this right?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u22	Now we are going to take the Ministers' replies. First Minister Leppä, three minutes, then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u23	Mr. Speaker! One of the translators of the economic direction has certainly been the bioeconomy as a whole, the strong pull of the forestry industry, and now, recently, we have also received good news on food and, in particular, on exports. New export destinations, export countries have been found and will thus increase the food economy as a whole. It has not yet been reflected to farmers, but it must be reflected to them, of course, and that is why we in the government have also decided to reform our food market at home, to make it fairer. The amendment of the law and the reform of the law are now under way, and its purpose is precisely to make the value added that farmers make possible by enabling them to operate profitably, profitable agriculture and the pursuit of it. President! Food security of supply has become very high during this year for those who are concerned about security of supply, and this is an emergency cry that food production is not for granted in Finland either. That's why you have to worry about it. Ultimately, this is about work: is it work here in Finland and in the food chain or is it somewhere else? This is not just the fact that it is on farms there; it is in the food industry, it is in the whole large, long food chain, and it is therefore important that profitability is ensured in primary production. If we do not have profitability and our own food production, we do not have those jobs elsewhere in the food chain. It's obvious. President! Why did the government choose this way of helping farmers by 25 million, and precisely in terms of the refund of the energy tax? It hits the right address of the instruments available in the best possible way. It is also intended that this base will come according to the use of energy in 2016, when it will also answer the question of farms where no harvest can be harvested this year. However, in the previous year they have done so, and it is therefore important that the base is the basis for energy taxation in 2016. That is a very important issue. Future faith is also an extremely important issue in this area, as in all economics. That is why these measures are being taken, that is why export efforts are being made, that is why the food market is being fairer, that is why the state guarantee system is being strengthened, and that is why we are now trying to find ways of abolishing the premium tax, which would also make crop damage insurance attractive instruments, and hence the provision of services. So many kinds of work are being done, and this means working for the whole food chain, but that critical point is in primary production, farmers and the profitability of farming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u24	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u25	Mr President! These costs of immigration are in the preparation of the STM, the work, and it will be completed in due course. I'm not familiar with a more precise schedule. Of today's employment figures: 56,000 fewer unemployed than one year ago in September, but what is worrying is that the number of people employed is still rising too slowly. It's a thing you have to keep working on. Work's been done. So, first of all, when Mrs Aalto asked for the measures to be taken in order to be able to find employment and increase the employment rate, the first is that we are competitive. A lot of work has been done on that. Competitiveness has improved, improved. We have taken countless individual steps from the opening of shops to changes in labour law. Tax policy is an important element in improving employment, competitiveness; a major reform of family leave, which is being introduced, specifically aimed at improving the supply and reception of work; incentives traps are being dismantled and so on. We just have to keep doing this job. We're not done. We're not in the finish line. In this respect, the gloves have not fallen down; the work continues. Congressman Lindtman, the economy is growing, but the cuts are continuing. Mr Lindtman, are you really prepared to cancel and compromise the basic line of fiscal policy in a situation where this year we are taking 4.5 billion in debt? The budget for next year will be built on a debt of EUR 3 billion. Are you really prepared to reverse the cuts we have had to make, now that the economy has grown and the debt has stopped? You will be here in the last few weeks when we have talked about the budget, one by one, and every saving. Horrible listeners from the point of view of public finances and from the point of view of our children who are paying the bills. Mr Uotila, you are right that, at least in the short term, tax reductions have an impact on sustainability, on the sustainability of public finances, but I firmly believe that lower labour taxation encourages work, enterprise and ultimately is the key to sustainable growth. I believe in this line of tax policy, and then the moderate tax solutions that ensure that no one's labour taxation is tightened are on the right path, and I dare to defend them forcefully. As far as pensioners are concerned, I am also saddened by those who come to a small retirement, or by those who try to get along with those who really are tight with the money. That is why, on three occasions, we have raised the guarantee pension, in other words, within the limits of what we have little, we have invested in precisely this specific measure. As for families with children, yes, we made that choice. This child allowance was not effective, 50 euros per child,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u26	We're going to take the next debatation round, Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u27	Mr President! I will answer directly to the Minister for Finance. First of all, you talk very much about the divisional hazard and the divisional thief. I see the risk of division mainly when you have tailored new tax advantages to your own background groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u30	Mr President! It is important for families with children that government debt is broken. This is the most important thing for children and young people, because otherwise their burden of payment would increase unduly. The tax rate would be excessive and the services would be weak. It is unfortunate that the left-wing opposition has not read this additional budget proposal. More money is being proposed here to support innovation, promote exports, invest in digitalisation, promote tourism, and the conclusion is that we will need less unemployment in the future according to this additional budget proposal. You would have read these good things and, in that way, you would have recognised what is being done. But it is important for children that debt is broken. I can also agree, Mr President, that it is a good thing that the concern for agriculture is shared in almost all the Chamber, and that is the way it should be. Minister Leppä has done excellent work as a practical farmer in seeking the solutions that create a future for this entire food chain, including primary production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u31	Mr President! To the big questions that this government's policy increases income inequalities and undermines the foundation of Finnish education, this amending budget does not answer either. We're talking about what's in the best interests of children. Well, it is in the best interests of children to provide children with equal early childhood education, good education, and this is the basis that this government has systematically broken down. Growth certainly does not seem to belong to everyone. But here is something that I particularly wanted to raise and for which I would like to thank the government, and that is an additional money for the Sámi reconciliation Commission. This is absolutely valuable. I remember earlier this period when I asked the government this question, and then there was an extremely clammy answer to the fact that at last this national wound could be dealt with. It is an extremely good thing that this centenary year will also be able to deal with these difficult issues and move forward together. So thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u32	Mr President! The amending budget will provide funding for the future multi-purpose arena in Tampere, which will then launch a project package of approximately EUR 500 million. It involves office building, housing, hotel building, and all of this will certainly have a significant employment impact. It must also be borne in mind that this is a building in the middle of the city. It's a condensation building. A new district will be created, which will serve not only Tampere or Pirkanmaa but the whole of Finland. I believe that there is also support for this in the opposition parties. I ask Minister Orpo: is it the case that there is no need to cut down any wood under this project? Is it true that this project has positive effects on tourism? And is it true that this is also a cultural project and not just a project supporting sport and sport?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u33	Mr President! In fact, income differentials have been increased during the entire government term as tax decisions. The lowest incomes, families with children, people living on benefits, unemployed and pensioners and sick people have seen in practice what government policy means. Income differentials will also increase next year. And it is this 'fine line' — which you call a fine line — that you have been defending here, the government parties. This will increase the development of inequalities. And the assembly: for some reason, whenever the word Katainen or Stubb is mentioned, you go hide. I would now say that it would not make sense to think that there was something good about Katainen's and Stubb's politics when, during the last term of government, income differentials were actually narrowed, even though the coalition was in the government. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, when there has been a great deal of talk about the need for agriculture: what do you yourselves think about the fact that the youth in the coalition felt that it was not sensible to support one of these groups of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u34	Mr President! The amending budget takes a good stance on the plight of agriculture and on the way in which the farming population is currently facing a real challenge. We must remember, however, that basic support is the big problem, as Minister Leppä has pointed out here, and we must work on it. Now this harvest has made it particularly important that there should be some crisis measures. Every one of us understands that the damage is considerably greater than what the state is now able to offer, this 25 million, but this is the right direction and tells us that this emergency has actually been identified here too in the house and especially in the government. Thank you very much for the fact that Minister Leppä himself, the active farmer himself, has taken this problem into account, from small things to move. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance for the feeling that when he was then Minister, he has recognized this need. A good twosome to take care of this work now! But the question is, how can we really create that faith in the future also for the farms that are now under consideration?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u35	Mr President! This additional budget proposal is a good one. This is a moderate increase in debt of 106 million. Our economy is growing, and this additional debt is well used. Tekes will get 40 million more and 37 million more for innovation support. The agricultural aid package, it is good, 21 million for the emergency package, one million for the Care-to-Guarantee project. And I would just like to say that this agricultural crop damage insurance would have to be improved in some way so that we could have a good model so that such emergency packages would not have to take care of things. Tourism, the start of the Tourism 4.0 project, 800,000 more, it is good, and 10 million for conversion training in the field of ict. I would like to say here that yesterday had a really good opportunity at the Finlandia House, where Finland set out the billboards of artificial intelligence and platform economy, and the measures and presentations that were made there would have to be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u36	Mr President! I agree with the other representatives that this is a very good amending budget and it is precisely this 25 million and 15 million new money for farmers that is in order. But Minister Leppä listed quite a list of possibilities to move forward. The Agriculture Section of the Committee on Finance, chaired by Mr Wallin, was in Hungary this autumn, where we were presented with a new crop damage fund, which, according to the law, is funded by both the state and farmers above a certain size. It will of course take time to build such a system, but is this a possible solution to move forward in Finland too, to put some kind of safety net on the farmers? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u37	Mr President! First of all, it is important to note that the entire food chain employs 340,000 Finns. In primary production there are only about 50,000, but in the rest of the chain then the rest, or nearly 290,000. This is an extremely important employment issue. [From :Speeds in the Spirits of the Finns!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u38	Mr President! In September 2017, there were 10,000 more unemployed than in September 2016. The unemployment rate among young people was higher than in the corresponding period. I was thinking about the fact that, earlier this autumn, when the Minister of Employment, Mr Lindström, told me that there was no money for employment, that there was no pay subsidy, and that the basic reason was that associations were not given the opportunity to employ as easily as they had been in previous years, that is to say, it has been tightened up, so does the government intend to conduct such negotiations to facilitate these employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed by enabling them to work in associations, too, by much easier means, so that this unemployment rate is lower than it has been in previous years.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u39	Mr President! Mr ProAgria has predicted that this year's total crop damage will be around 100 to 150 million, and I thank the government for the fact that you were very quick to look for solutions to help the worst. But now that energy taxes are being returned in 2016, it will not apply to all farmers to the extent necessary, i.e. it will not apply to those farms that dry the grain in the cargo, nor to those that use domestic energy for drying. It is now particularly important, then, that we consider further measures and that the government should try to help, among other things, to find solutions in the banks to improve the proportion of these farms which are now excluded from the refund of this energy tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u40	Mr President! It is great that the government granted EUR 25 million to farmers in need. But weather conditions alone have not been a nuisance for producers. Bears have torn hay bales and bee groves. The geese have defecated the fields. I would like to ask the Minister: is there any possibility of compensation for the damage caused by bears and geese?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u41	Mr President! This amending budget is quite pleasant to read, and it must be said here on the right side of the opposition that we are no longer able to be gloomy. It is time to spread a little smile and say that all the forces now need to be harnessed to ensure that this growth actually produces even more. I would say that this amending budget is pounding where the iron is hot. There is an increase in the innovation programme for shipbuilding, the Innovation Finance Centre, to promote exports, so that Finnish salesmen can work day and night. My guess is that this trend in unemployment will accelerate in the coming years in terms of its improvement. In that sense, I see this as good. Finland has now reached the standard class from the EU monitoring class, and that is a good situation. However, the stain here is, and it is related to this family policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u42	Mr President! I think that the amending budget is good, and it is excellent that the economy is growing and that there are fewer and fewer unemployed people. We have 4500 fewer unemployed people in Central Finland this year than last year, so such happy news comes from the province or another. Of course, as a politician interested in sports, the Tampere multi-purpose arena and the 18 million allocated to it are of particular interest. On the other hand, this will certainly also create expectations for future targets. Currently there is a potential project coming to Turku, a potential project coming to Oulu, a project coming to Helsinki, and In Jyväskylä the project, so I would like to ask the Minister: is this 18 million now the new standard that is applied elsewhere in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u43	Mr President! Indeed, the Committee on Economic Policy is in favour of the government's participation in the construction or financing of the Tampere multi-purpose arena. Most of that money comes from the private side. It is important that it also includes this part of the state. It will bring back 3,500 jobs and some 100 million for the state, probably over the years, when this is being built, and it will also create a place of exercise. It will also become an event place, which is important. Tampere is a time in the middle of Finland and in this sense a good place. One of the problems there is, of course, the fact that the Commission still needs to be authorised. I would have asked the ministers if there was anything here that could somehow prevent this. Well, at least you shouldn't. In any case, as Mrs Wallinheimo said and Mr Kiuru also said, this will indeed have an impact on the projects of other cities, and of course we need events and, for sport's sake, such a good arena, which is also in a good transport location.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u44	Mr President! When it comes to the fact that unemployment has fallen, there are fewer unemployed people: it is true, but there are fewer unemployed people because there are more carnivals. People have been transferred to retirement and people have also been transferred to the social hatch. Before the summer session, 17,000 Karens had been distributed, and everyone who is on the run is out of work. He is not registered as an unemployed job seeker. That is what I wanted to say. Minister, I would like to ask you: are you aware that there are currently about half a million working poor people in this country? This is a problem, we should get more training here so that people can get the kind of work they need to live on. Almost 500,000 working poor people are too many. These people are also not helped by tax reductions or by the fact that taxes do not rise, and in particular by the reduction, because they do not reach the level of state taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u45	Mr President! Municipal decision-makers in councils and we here are pleased that the Finnish economy is moving slowly but surely in a positive direction. There was talk of a shortage of skilled labor. It is not just a problem for large cities; small towns are indeed in short supply. There has also been talk of conversion training in the social and health care sector, in the building sector, and also about the shortage of doctors, but how can this conversion training be responded to suddenly, everyone knows that. The granting of agricultural crisis packages is also positive. Then, from the left, someone said that the profits of entrepreneurs have increased, but in practice I know that, especially in the SME sector, if there is a little above the line, there will be an annual investment in equipment that is needed every few years. So not all of it is the profit that sometimes comes from a few euros. But this amending budget is positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u46	Mr President! The Social Democrats clearly need to be given support — the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture can also give it to them — when they keep asking whether growth belongs to everyone. Of course it belongs to everyone. Why shouldn't it be? The way government policy works is that we first bake cake, get results so that we can share it with everyone, including families with children, pensioners, the unemployed and everyone else. I am surprised at the social democrats' behaviour in that, in particular, The measures taken by the Sipilä government have contributed to the employment of the unemployed, and you are constantly complaining that inequality is increasing. I don't like the fact that during Paavo Lipponen's governments, inequality exploded in Finland. Now it has remained quite stable. Of course, when it comes to social security, the division of society, everyone loses something, but growth is made for Finnish society to rise
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u47	Mr President! Fortunately, Alexander Stubb is in Luxembourg and Katainen is in Brussels, and Mr Heinonen so strongly insulted the previous Prime Minister of the Coalition. As a tip to Minister Orpo, don't just leave the country if you're interested in your reputation. But now a few words about the future. After all, no government has a huge power over the world economy, neither in bad nor in good. With our own decisions, we influence the structures and the sustainability of the future and, unfortunately, we are heading in the wrong direction. The cyclically adjusted reduction in the general government deficit is, with the current forecast, 2 billion behind the government's own target in 2019. The revenue of public finances is reduced by billions of euros, that is why. This sustainability gap will therefore increase with the government’s own efforts. So now we need reforms to strengthen employment in the 2030s and the sustainability of public finances, especially family-free ones, the extension of compulsory education. Additional budget
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u48	Mr President! It is very good that this amending budget is very moderate and has very good priorities, especially EUR 10 million for conversion training, which will bring 550 students into the new profession. I too agree with those who marvel at this policy of social democrats and, in particular, Mr Lindtman's throw. That middle-income and high-income earners would not participate in tax payments — a very special throw. Can't you read the statistics? According to high statistics, 9.5% of taxpayers pay 72% of government income taxes. If you look at the statistics for all taxes, the figures are very similar. Do you want to tell kindergarten teachers, teachers, people in many different middle-income professions that they are not involved in maintaining this society? Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u49	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Ross' excellent speech. When you listen to the Social Democratic opposition, it somehow comes to mind that the Sipilä Government is accused of giving nothing but work to the unemployed. So it is quite clear that we can best improve inequality by increasing employment, and by looking at these statistics, which show an increase in income disparities, they do not take into account, however, the fact that tens of thousands of Finns have moved from there to the side where they work and are not unemployed. That's not the way it was during the last term of government. And it can also be said from these speeches that there will be such an idea, as if we had an impossible division of resources, that our state finances would already be in surplus. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and it is clear that when we are able to make a lasting adjustment to the better state finances, then it is time to invest in basic security, the most vulnerable, those who are low incomes, pensioners and live.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u50	To this extent, I would like to add the following contributions: Mr Arhinmäki, Mr Aalto, Mr Rinne, Mr Heinonen and Mr Kääriäinen. And then we'll have some more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u51	Mr President! We have been very concerned about debt, and the same speeches have praised how excellent this amending budget is. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u54	All right, Mr Aalto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u56	Mr President! Minister of Finance Orpo, you are poorly acquainted with the Social Democratic Party's alternative budget 2016-2017
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u59	Mr President! Those who were in the 2011 government negotiations will certainly be able to confirm that this 50-50 division, where taxes were wanted to be tightened, the coalition opposed and, at the request of the Social Democrats, it came, and we know what the result was.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u62	Mr President! For its part, the additional budget will ensure and even imprison the economic transition — today has come back to a good record of employment growth. Mr Finance Minister, labour market solutions have played a major role in the fact that the economic transition is a fact today. After all, the government does not interfere with labour market solutions or negotiations. It should not interfere, but you can always ask: Mr Finance Minister, what does this situation look like now, because it is quite important for the continuation, whether this good rise will continue or if there will be some serious setbacks? Secondly, this decision on the loss of crops, even in such a way as to replace the loss, is a very important matter in material terms, but, of course, mentally, it tells us how the government is dealing not only with the work of the farmer but also with the work in general that relates to our self-sufficiency and security of supply and national security. It is the right line and unites us Finns, but there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of profitability.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u63	And at this point, we will be taking the Ministers' replies. Minister Orphan, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u64	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen spoke well here, saying that it is time to talk about these positive things too. And in the midst of all this bitterness, you should remember that the real economy is growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u75	At this point, Minister Leppä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u76	Mr. Speaker! The government also wants the food economy to be a growth sector as a part of the overall bioeconomy, and that is where we are and are working hard to achieve it. It is quite clear that if we have to keep going from one crisis package to another, it is not sustainable, it is not encouraging, it is not long-term what this sector needs, all of them. That is why the functioning of the market is everything a and o and the promotion of exports and the success of exports is everything a and o in order for this to happen. But it is also clear that in such a time, when exceptional circumstances, completely exceptional circumstances have been, also in a small part will be facilitated, and therefore bring 25 million. Taking care of Makera, i.e. the Farm Development Fund: It is an important tool for us to have investment, and it is precisely that investment that is leveraged. Every year, agriculture invests half a billion and more — every year — and the contribution it makes from Makera to it has a very large leverage effect in this regard, and it also maintains our security of supply. One thing and the other side to which Mr Orpo has already referred is, of course, the EU crisis fund and the potential for some relief from this plight. They are going through very carefully, and there is also the same hope that we have as far as these national actions of the government are concerned: that the money should be quickly accounted for. So the farmers now need the money, and they are trying to get it into the accounts as quickly as possible. It is also true what the section president, Mr Wallin, has said here that we have long-term government cuts which are still affecting agriculture. There is a cut of 10 million that we were able to reduce to that amount from the previous plan. It is included in this additional budget. But surgery is still an operation, it is quite clear, and it must be acknowledged, and it is a bad thing for this economic situation. Fraud: They have grown, they cannot get over or around it, as well as the damage caused by other protected animals. We are also in a bit of trouble with the compensation that we have received from the EU for the right to pay, EUR 10 million, and that is why we also need measures that will enable us to prevent these damage from happening more effectively. It's obvious, and that's what they're looking for. It is clear that when we talk, in particular, about the removal of strictly protected animals, about restricting their position, we always have to have discussions with the Commission. That is the work we are constantly doing in order to reduce the damage and to maintain the security that must be the same everywhere in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u77	Now there is still a chance to ask for the V button to press and stand up for the debate. So we're gonna have one more debatable tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u78	Mr President! The increase in the budget of the Government proposal is mainly directed at sectors and regions already undergoing positive economic development, i.e. so-called positive structural change. At the same time, the proposal promises very little to Eastern and Northern Finland, for example, who are still struggling with high unemployment rates. I really would have liked to see regional and tailor-made growth packages from the government to support the growth of the different regions of the country. That would have been the good regional policy. Even well-targeted small investments would have a major positive impact on the creation of new jobs, for example, still high unemployment in North Karelia.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u79	Mr President! I myself am one of those who thank this draft amending budget as a whole. It has paid a great deal of attention to employment and, for example, the service sector in Finland is a growing sector where more jobs are being created at the moment. Minister Leppä, you have just said here that the question of compensation for these animals that cause crop damage is in the pit at the moment. I would like to ask whether we could perhaps consider a means of combating damage. I myself am from that Kouvola, and we in Elimäki have estimated that when the white cheek geese have one herd of 300,000 individuals in one field, then such numbers of birds can by no means be any more rare individuals, and those numbers are of the order that
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u80	Irade the Talman! It was noted here that day care fees are falling, and it is of course a great thing that the government has changed its position on this point about the intention to increase which was still in force here some time ago. It is also a good thing that this hole in the municipal economy is not now being filled with an increase in the property tax of some municipalities. That would have been a very short-sighted policy overall. When we discussed the abolition of subjective day care rights a couple of years ago,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u85	Mr President! Families with children and knowledge are the choice of the Board of Directors, and in that respect you can say here and correct that each child is entitled to part-time subjective day care, i.e. in practice early childhood education. When we have discussed what the government is doing, whether it is doing structural reforms, I would point out that it is doing, and if we look at unemployment, the government is taking specific measures in that regard. Conversion training, to which EUR 10 million is allocated, is practically like two birds with the same blow. At the same time, unemployment will be reduced and bottlenecks that hinder growth will be eliminated. Growth is also a way of helping those who are less well off, who also have a weaker regional situation. Let us consider the situation in which we live. We are living in a complete break-in of work with the terms "AI", "The Platform Economy", "CRISPR", "GMO" and so on. Ten years ago, we might not have imagined these terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u86	Mr President! There are good things in this government's amending budget. I am grateful that the Ministry of Finance has listened to the police's concerns about these funds and then also to the concerns of the Border Guard about the purchase of new aircraft and patrol vessels, which has also been allocated more than EUR 4 million, and in this respect, of course, on behalf of the section. I would also have drawn attention to this point when, in this amending budget, the government is now proposing an increase of EUR 40 million in the payment of grants for public research projects. These are good decisions that will certainly increase Finnish employment, and the direction is quite right. But I would have put forward a few ideas to find other instruments to support young entrepreneurs, for example, through a fund, and to get more courage for it and then new tools to promote exports. This current export promotion system alone
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u87	Mr President! Two things. From this labour market round: In the spring of the spending limits debate, I said that if there is a fight in the autumn, then you have to ask who started. I said at the time that this kiky agreement, that is to say the wage-earning agreement and its violent attacks on wage earners — the cuts in holiday money, the transfer of contributions from employers to employees, the unpaid annual extension of 24 hours of working time — inevitably put pressure on the labour market round that is currently under negotiation. It seems that, even in the opinion of the Economic Policy Review Council, the government's starting point in the long-term economic plan has been that next year the labour market round will be close to zero, so I consider this to be a very challenging one, because employees are fully entitled to seek compensation for the losses and attacks that the government is the key player through the kiky agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u88	Mr President! It is true that this government is increasing inequality in its policy, and the Prime Minister himself admitted this at the beginning of this autumn. However, Minister Orpo, you will see now that it does not necessarily seem so fair from the point of view of a kindergarten teacher, teacher or nurse from whom the coalition has now cut and cut holiday money, while, at the same time, the government is giving tax reductions to millions of heirs or owners of large forest holdings. It just doesn't seem fair and it's not fair, and it's proof that the government just doesn't think that growth belongs to everyone. But now, President-in-Office, this is important: in my opinion, Mr Lindtman has already asked Mr Orpo twice that if Parliament wants to eliminate this tax evasion of small and medium-income families with children, would you be prepared to do so? Would you be prepared to reverse the fact that families with children with low and middle incomes would not be blackmailed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u89	Mr President! It is hard to believe that just in the past the same government has passed the abolition of the right to equal day care and the rearing of child care groups by the representatives of the government parties to listen to this talk about early childhood education. We continue to hear from experts how these decisions, these surgeries, these weakenings have hit just the most vulnerable children, the very children who would have needed the most support. This is a very broad consensus shared by experts, and these savings have been completely null and void, that is to say, a correction should be made here. As regards this free early childhood education experiment: Extremely good. This government is going to put EUR 5 million in this. We are currently in the process of budgetary negotiations in Helsinki, and only Helsinki, or a single municipality, is putting 10 million dollars into free early childhood education a year, twice as much — one municipality — as this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u90	President! Unfortunately, this debate also helps to prove that the public is not interested in politics, is deliberately misunderstood. It is so wonderful in the opposition to support all good things and to resist all bad things and say that we are clean and ideological and that you are narrow and lacking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u91	Mr President! The OECD and the IMF have recommended to Finland, among other things, that taxation should rather be used as a tool for reducing and reducing income inequalities, but on the contrary the government has done so. Similarly, many experts have warned the government that efforts have not been made to balance income differences during this government term. As you can see for some reason, the coalition has since changed since Katainen and Stubb's period, because this period is precisely the period in which we are trying to create income differences: namely EUR 37 less in the clean hand for the most low-income Finns and EUR 400 more for the high-income people. Shouldn't growth belong to everyone? It is certainly a question of today when the allocation is created, where the allocation is used. Surely no one can think that the people who gave little or nothing to balance the Finnish economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u92	At this stage of the debate, I would like to respond to the following representatives: Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Rossi, Mr Meri and Mr Rinne. Then the Minister's reply, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u93	Mr President! You cannot believe your ears when, among other things, the demos and the Greens confirm that they believe that all the savings you have been against here for a couple of years should be cancelled. Do you really think that it would be the stability and predictability in the Finnish economy that has enabled us to enjoy, also as a result, good economic growth? But of course there are also less successful savings decisions, and I agree with Mr Adlercreutz and Mrs Kari that this limitation of the right to day care is something that did little to save and which is good at the right time to take a new look. As far as these income differentials are concerned, this EUR 3 per month mentioned by Mrs Kiuru in the lowest-income decile is largely due to a tightening of the taxation of smoking. Do you really think that it would be preferable to increase the tax burden on labour?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u94	Mr President! That is where Minister Orpo pointed out that he is concerned about low-income pensioners, but at least when you look at this government proposal of 107 on next year's income tax scale for pensioners, the more effective the tax reductions will be, the greater the income category, which means that a zero-sum game could also be used for such internal solidarity. In that sense, I share with the SDP the same concern about how this internal solidarity can be exercised and how this tax burden can be shared. I also believe, as does the Group of the Finns Party, that child allowance could be extended next year. I hope there is support in the opposition for this. We will have in the alternative budget — we will present it when all the other groups present it — that we take less debt than the government, that total taxation will be lighter and that internal justice and solidarity will be different and we will also stress this reduction in children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u95	Mr President! Two and a half years ago, when we held the government negotiations under the leadership of the then president, Juha Sipilä, it was obviously an assessment of how Finland could be lifted from the economic development that was then in the perspective of yours, even the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance, even though you were leaving the work of the previous government. In any case, it was then seen that this coalition of governments was able to make reforms for Finland. Well, of course, there's always a discussion in the government and there's not a consensus — that's the way it's supposed to be. But I do want to continue to encourage the Government to follow the Government Programme, because it is the strong path that can take Finland forward, both in terms of the problems of agriculture and in terms of the management of other matters. And Mr Uotila, you should move on to that five-hour working day and at the same level as the wages at the moment when you are talking about not having to do more work for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u96	Mr President! It is great that the economy is growing, and we are certainly all happy about that in this Chamber. The same applies to the gradual increase in unemployment, the increase in unemployment and employment rates. But what we are very concerned about, which is why there is so much criticism of the government here, relates to this policy, in which you have made clear choices of value. You have made a choice of values for increasing inequality in Finnish society. You have decided to cut nearly EUR 100 per month for students, hundreds of euros per year for pensioners, more than EUR 1 000 for unemployed people or thousands of euros per year. These are all political value choices made by this government. This leads to unequal development, an increase in income differentials. Now, Minister of Finance, many times you have been asked that, when you have been prepared to throw away the lower limit of this property tax, why do you not now want to create hope for families with children whose taxation you are blackmailing? We have over 100,000 children living in poor families, and you are now, through taxation, taking these families to an even worse place with regard to taxation next year. Minister of Finance, please respond. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u97	The debate now continues with the Minister of Finance Orpo having three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u98	Mr President! With great interest, I will be familiar with your alternative budgets when you leave them, because, as President Rinne has just mentioned the savings we have made again, I assume that you will then remove these savings. I want to see how you balance this whole with someone else in this country trying and working as well. But let's leave this at the time you get your own show done. To this further argument about a policy of disparateness: The difference in revenue on the basis of the budget increases by 0.01% in the Gini coefficient, i.e. 0.01% in the Gini coefficient, so that you do not think that this is enough for this long. It is not statistically or otherwise significant. In other words, even though the economy is growing, the income gap is virtually the same, i.e. the income gap is virtually the same on the basis of this budget. Nevertheless, I have the courage to defend strongly that we should ensure that no one's taxation is tightened, no one's taxation is tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u103	Minister Leppä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u104	Mr. Speaker! Here Mr Pakkanen and Mr Oinonen also asked how to prevent and combat animal damage, particularly to agriculture, to farming. Such means are being sought all the time in cooperation with the game administration, in cooperation with the environmental administration, and will, of course, be taken into account. After all, we have the logic of the Hunting Act that when we say that there is an increased game species, the hunting pressure can be increased, and when it has declined, the hunting pressure will be reduced, even banned, the hunting of that species. This is particularly sustainable game management. In just the same way, it must also be for species which are well and significantly more abundant than what we need in terms of favourable conservation levels. Then other means must also be evaluated. That is why these discussions have begun. They are carried out both at our national level and in the direction of the EU in order to avoid these damage and to ensure that all stocks are taken care of in a sustainable manner. That, of course, is what we want, it is quite clear, and it is also that the damage does not go beyond its periphery.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u105	And now we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u106	Mr President! However, I would now like to say to Minister Orpo the following about the development of inequality: You referred to this 0,04 % Gini effect. In fact, it only refers to the overall tax solution. On the other hand, the fact that at the same time the government is making index cuts, index freezes, for example, is not yet involved in this, and the result is that the end wind, which has been mentioned here, is that the low-income ones are being deprived of some EUR 40 and then the high-income one gets more. In practice, then, you can imagine the situation that if a person is really low income, then every ten bucks, every euro is an important euro, and that is why it is not very fair that, at the same time, millions of heirs and others receive more and then that little person actually suffers. So here we go, and these value choices are very unpleasant. Secondly, you spoke of the taxation of families with children. Minister Orphan will now have to leave, but I hope that you will get to know what I am going to say next. Although you very much now feel that you do not think that small and middle-income families need taxes at this year's level, they could very well be tightened up, I would say quite frankly that I have not heard very bad feedback from any of the families with children about the child reduction that is now being abolished. On the contrary, those families of children there when they come to talk think it's all right that their taxes may have been a little lighter by means of this reduction in children. I would therefore like the heart to have been found in the government to cancel these taxes on small and middle-income families of children, because that is objectively wrong, and then it is also very unfortunate when, at the same time, it is said that no one is being taxed more. Yes, it is tightening up now, and why, then, is it really necessary to be so that it is this family of children, which all in all is going to happen to them? I would also like to say to this House and to the logic of the government that, when you are now justifying this, that you have come up with a better idea, you came up with a reduction in the fees for day care, that is a good thing, but history, too, was that at first you wanted to increase the fees for day care. You wanted to raise it. We are very critical of the opposition and the outcome was good: they are not being raised but reduced. That's right. Well, a similar logic was found in the property tax. Until two weeks ago, the government and the Coalition Party explicitly wanted to impose property tax by raising the lower limits, and now they no longer want to. So, even in this regard, when logic itself went in the right direction to cancel these bad intentions, why at this point could the government not do the same thing, and if it was going to increase taxation on small and middle-income families of children, could it not now be cancelled? That is what we were trying to ask once again in the debate, and I must say that I was disappointed by what Mr Orpo has just said, as if he was saying that everything is fine and that the choices are correct and that there are obviously no cancellations. But I would also urge that this should happen in this amending budget and in the budget as a whole, while here in Parliament throughout the autumn we are going to continue these economic issues overall. I repeat that when we ask whether growth belongs to everyone, we think it is wrong to say that it does, Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u109	At this stage, no wider debate will be opened, but I will give the answers to the representatives of Lauslahti and Rossi and then perhaps the actual speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u110	Mr President! Representative to Viitanen: The new page has been translated in the board book. That page is one that looks at families with children, families with children with low and middle incomes. First of all, the real estate tax reduction is directed above all at families with children living in the capital region and in urban areas, who happen to have very high tax values, which generate very much more expenditure in terms of their spending. In addition, if early childhood education fees are taken, this year’s early childhood education fees will mean hundreds and hundreds of euros more than the disposable income of a single parent family. For next year we will have EUR 1200 just ahead for those less well-off families with children — EUR 1200, that is, listen, a large sum of money for a low-income family with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u111	Mr President! The late President I think the Koivisto sometimes remembered that economic policy is a very difficult sport and it is a little more difficult than correcting a tractor when it is withdrawn when it is made to go the way it did. This government is correcting that hint. Fortunately, we are driving ahead, because that is easier, yes, indeed. Therefore, I still believe that this policy of economic policy, which affects all Finns in exactly the same way, in one way or another, is the right way forward. Then, Mr Viitanen, you said about the cut in the holiday money. Taxation has come against us, and it is a practical way in which society has participated, the employee has participated and has then brought it into the hands of the operators. It has been concrete: for example, there has been no need to lay off people in medical districts, but it has been able to act financially and profitably. I recommend that you visit the Bank of Finland, for example. I am sure that Mr Liikanen will also be happy to make economic policy considerations available to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u112	Mr President! Unfortunately, this is now, Mr Rossi, almost to say to you that the best pieces of this government have been cancellations, unfortunately. The best parts have been cancellations, i.e. bad decisions have been withdrawn since, although in due course, from the cuts in the housing allowance for pensioners, ending up with this very cancellation of the property tax. These cancellations are one of the best pieces in the government. And since the government is showing its best by canceling, I would very much like you to cancel the holiday allowance cuts for nurses and teachers and kindergarten teachers, cleaners, and also to cancel this tax evasion for families with children. In fact, we find it very regrettable, Mrs Lauslahti, that, now that the government is turning a new page on families with children, the first thing on that page is that your taxes are being tightened. While it is said that no one's taxation will increase, yes, the taxation of families with children with low and medium incomes will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u113	We shall now return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u114	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The past growing season has been very difficult. In support of farmers suffering from difficult harvesting conditions, the government has decided to support farmers in difficult harvesting situations with an investment of EUR 25 million. This is very good and it'll come in handy. In addition to the EUR 15 million allocated to the new currency, EUR 10 million of the funds already decided on for Makera will be re-allocated in order to facilitate the acute crisis. The money will be used to increase the refund of energy taxes. The decision on farmers' subsidies is commendable and will certainly bring partial relief to farmers. However, the difficult growing season of the past is only a continuation of many years of difficult economic growth. We should also reflect on the follow-up and on what we could do to alleviate the plight of farmers and improve the conditions for farming. According to Luke's estimate, last year's entrepreneurial income on farms will fall to EUR 100 million to EUR 409 million. In 2010, the entrepreneurial income of farms was still around EUR 900 million. According to Luke, the salary is less than EUR 6000 per farm this year. Although the fall in income is partly due to a weak growth period this year, income trends have been similar throughout the 21st century. The root cause of farmers' plight and the downward spiral of income is found in markets where producers' poor position in the food chain and low producer prices feed on farmers' incomes. We produce the cleanest food in Europe at Europe's lowest producer prices, and this is absolutely incomprehensible and intolerable. If we want to safeguard the future of agriculture, we must address these market failures. Minister Leppä and the entire government have made good openings, including the task force preparing the Food Markets Act and the establishment of the office of food agent. These openings to improve market failures I hope will be further. We could also consider what we could do to improve the safety net for farmers in Finland, when farmers have not had a functional safety net since the crop damage law was abolished in 2015. The current system, based on voluntary and market-based insurance, does not work properly, as insurance is expensive and does not in practice fit the damage situation this summer. The Agriculture Section of the Committee on Finance visited Hungary earlier in the autumn, where the State had set up a crop damage fund, which, according to the law, is financed by both the State and farmers above a certain size. Building such a system takes time and cannot help us today, but it is worth the idea in the absence of a functioning safety net. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry also in its own opinion to the Committee on Finance today on next year's budget calls for the replacement of the compensation scheme based on harvest insurance with a new, effective system. In this respect, the decision of the Ministry of Finance to set up a working group to investigate the relief of premium tax on harvest insurance is very welcome. We cannot help the forces of the weather, but we can mitigate the consequences of extreme weather conditions with wise legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u115	Mr President! I will continue the debate on regional policy, because, in the wake of the decisions of the government, growth does not seem to belong to all regions, i.e. all regions. The Government's proposal is largely continuing the first amending budget of this year, in which the increase in appropriations is focused on sectors and areas of positive economic development, i.e. so-called positive structural change, such as aid for innovation in shipbuilding and the Tampere multi-purpose arena. At the same time, the proposal promises very little to Eastern and Northern Finland, for example, who are still struggling with high unemployment rates. The unemployment rates in North Karelia are still the highest in the country: they are 14.5 per cent in the whole of North Karelia and the unemployment rate in Joensuu remains 15.4 per cent. It is not a bad thing to support the growth that has started, but the management of employment in the whole country would require a broader view. Regional growth packages should be tailored to different regions. A long-term economic policy that supports the strengths of regions would not only address acute unemployment but would also improve the ability of regions to make growth-oriented policies in the future. Now, especially in Eastern Finland, when cuts have been made to rail and Post's office network and, as the latest proposal, to the district court network, they have experienced the wrong side of government policy. One important investment in the future in North Karelia would be to take the Joensuu railway yard project forward. Project planning is complete, as is the city's contribution. Only the central government contribution is missing. This project would support the potential for growth and at the same time facilitate the employment situation. A small amount of public money would mobilise significant private investment and would play an important role in the growth and employment of the entire Joensuu region and also of North Karelia as a whole. While other provinces continue to wrestle with high unemployment rates, the state could well be involved in building a better turnaround with its targeted efforts. This is a good example of the government's regional policy: there is no desire for equal support for the country as a whole. From North Karelia, it seems that more will be given to those who have much, and those who have little will be taken away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u116	Mr President! The amending budget under discussion raises the question of how to balance the economy and possibly use a new allocation. The OECD and the IMF have recommended that taxation should be used more to reduce income disparities than the government actually does. Today we have discussed very extensively whether the fruits of growth in this proposal are in order. At the same time, when the government proposes in the amending budget that there should be more debt in order to manage certain projects, the question for the day is whether this draft amending budget should have allowed these fruits of growth to be distributed to different population groups, to individual people in different categories of income, to benefit groups and to different regions of the country as well as to different cities in a slightly more moderate way. So it is a question of who growth actually belongs to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u119	Mr President! We are now having a debate on the government's proposal for the third amending budget of the current year, and when you listened to that part of the debate, it was quite strong that we were talking about it. Only agriculture was what was found in this draft amending budget. Mr. Speaker! This basic premise is that the government has stated that the economy is growing and employment is improving, and the forecasts for growth from various forecasting institutions are very positive for the current and next year. This is a good starting point and the amending budget supports this development in many respects. Among other things, these innovation support measures, which are proposed for nearly 31 million in the area of innovation aid for shipbuilding, and then 12 million in the promotion of exports and 12 million in investments in digitalisation are all those which, on a broad basis, support economic growth, employment and also growth forecasts and improved exports. Mr. Speaker! A few words on this agricultural situation: This year has been very rare. At first we had a very cold, delayed spring, then a cold, rainy summer, which has since continued in a very rainy autumn. As a result, farmers have been in very serious difficulties in harvesting and forecasts have predicted a total harvest loss of around EUR 100 to EUR 150 million. It is positive that the government has now joined these support projects by allocating EUR 25 million for the refund of energy tax based on energy consumption in 2016. This is partly difficult in view of the farms which have either started the whole production activity since the beginning of this year or, alternatively, those which do not themselves have, for example, a grain drying plant. This means that they will not have enough energy costs to compensate for this energy tax. But the good news is, of course, that this issue is being addressed in some way. What is also important is that banks should take part in these efforts by granting a reduction in loans, so that this worst-case scenario can be overcome. The Government’s draft amending budget provides for an amount of EUR 250000 for the control of animal diseases, in particular African swine fever. It is a necessary additional allocation, because if African swine fever landed here in Finland, the costs would be high and it would also be a big image loss for the export operations that we have just begun. The draft amending budget also provides additional funding for administrative expenditure on farm and fur farm holidays, and it is also important to support farmers' survival by proposing EUR 1 million. Take care of the farmer project. Mr President! Many of the speeches here have looked to the future in terms of how crop damage could be compensated in the future. On the Hungarian trip to the agricultural section, we heard the speeches of their Ministry of Agriculture and the representatives of Parliament about their own system, and there was indeed a fund of this kind in which farmers put a certain amount after 16 hectares, as I recall, and then the state put another in the fund. If we thought of such a fund model in Finland, if farmers put EUR 4 per hectare and the state did the same, it would constitute an annual fund of approximately 20 million, and if this accumulated resource were left in the fund, it would then become a fund of EUR 80 million which would already be a reasonable buffer for crop damage over four years. Mr President! Finally, as regards the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I would like to thank the Government for giving Seinäjoki Airport EUR 150000 in this draft amending budget. Seinäjoki Airport is a private airport outside Finavia's airport network and yet there is commercial and private air traffic to the extent that there is a need for active running of the airport, which means that this money will be used to cover staff costs. Such a one-off state grant is necessary for staff costs and maintenance and maintenance costs related to the security of air navigation, fire and civil aviation at Seinäjoki Airport. Therefore, Seinäjoki Airport will then be able to provide quite good services when it is known that the airport in the rest of the area is quite high-quality and the facilities are all in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u120	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already had a few speeches from this place in the September 2017 Parliament House, which has been refurbished with newness, but in this debate on the amending budget, I thought for the first time that I would be encouraged to climb right here and speak here when it comes to many very important and good things for my constituency that have been highlighted by the Juha Sipilä Government in this third amending budget for 2017. Mr. Speaker! In fact, I would like to continue with what the previous speaker, Mrs Hautala, my colleague from the same homeland, concluded, lastly, and I would like to express my very warm thanks to the whole government, and in particular to the Minister for Transport, Mrs Berner, for the fact that this third amending budget for this year guarantees the development of the operation of Seinäjoki Airport. The development of Seinäjoki Airport has been years of twisting and fighting at our local level. Much work has been done on the fact that the operations of the airport have been maintained over the years — both by the municipalities and by the provincial lobbyists and by a large number of MPs from different parties in our province — and in recent years a pilot airport has developed from Seinäjoki Airport in a certain way. Let's talk about light airport concepts and Dirty Dometics, which has many fine terms. The idea is to create a slightly lighter way to maintain air traffic operations, and Seinäjoki Airport can be a model airport for how regional airports operate in Finland in the future. I have discussed this situation at Seinäjoki Airport and air traffic in general in Finland with Minister of Transport Anne Berner many times, and I share the Minister of Transport’s view that, as global air operations and air traffic are on the increase, it is not wise to close any airports in Finland at the moment. We have now been in a failed economic policy and the global financial crisis for several years in the economic downturn, from which Finland has now risen to the rest of the world economy in recent years thanks to good economic policy, and when we are at the beginning of an economic upturn, it is not wise in any way to undermine our transport connections and our logistical accessibility. Air transport, however, is such that when international trade is conducted and international business and tourism and so on, it is just a business where you really need to get to and from that county city quickly and out of it to the world, and that is where such airports, which provide flexible services for different kinds of business travel and various events, are very necessary. In this context, I would also like to thank my colleagues from the South, just above the government-opposition line, for the fact that we were on the move last autumn to secure the operation of this Seinäjoki Airport. We took a joint budget initiative which unfortunately did not fit in with the report of the Committee on Finance at the time, but this budget initiative had its own impact on the fact that this EUR 150,000 aid was now available so that this new type of airport activity could be developed. Mr President! In 2017, Finland will be 100 years old. 100 years of independent republic. It rained down the spring, the summer was very cold, autumn rainy. 2017 has been the worst year of roofing in 30 years. A hundred years ago, when Finland became independent, we had a shortage of food, there was a shortage of food and, Mr President, I dare say that if we lived a hundred years ago, we would have a famine in Finland. Such a year has been this year for our agriculture and our weather conditions. This has, of course, been seen as an emergency and a crisis in rural areas, especially in farms whose livelihoods and their own bread depend on what is actually produced from nature. That is why I would like to thank the Government of Juha Sipilä and, in particular, the new Central Minister for Agriculture, Jari Leppää, for the fact that in this amending budget, and in the negotiations of the Government, the ceiling on agriculture is being helped. EUR 15 million will be released from Makera, the Rural Development Fund, and EUR 21 million will be added to the previously agreed agricultural crisis package to help ease the situation in this year. In addition, Juha The Sipilä Government has agreed to return EUR 25 million to energy taxes on farms, thus facilitating this acute economic crisis, which has taken place during the year. Mr President! Finnish agriculture has been in very deep trouble for the last three or four years. There are many reasons for this: one of the main root causes and the underlying causes is the crisis in Ukraine, which resulted in bilateral sanctions between the European Union and Russia. This, with its many indirect effects, has led to the situation that the agricultural market situation in Finland is very bad and, in fact, the European agricultural market is in a rather difficult situation at the moment. In any way we must be able to take care of it — in a year like this, when we see that nature has not changed anything, the world has not changed in a hundred years — because it is very important that Finnish agriculture does not end altogether because of these temporary difficulties. We need to be able to improve the profitability of agriculture, and I expect quite a lot from this new trade agent, who has been launched by Jari Leppa, who is responsible for ensuring that an even greater proportion of the cost of a bread package or a can of milk will come to the farmer and producer who, however, does the greatest work. Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for this so-called The intermediate farmer project will also be taken care of and additional resources have been put into it in this additional budget. These people who are doing this Care Farming work and who visit farms to talk to farmers in difficulty have said that when this project started, their phones were blocked. They were on the phone for a couple of days straight. There have been hundreds of farms in isolated, even smaller provinces that have longed for this help to cope with the difficult economic situation and the resulting mental pressures. It is very important that this Intermediary Farmer project be continued. President! I would like us to consider new ways in Finland to restore these over-debted farms to viability in an acordic way. Unfortunately, our current legal instruments, corporate restructuring and the private debt arrangement, which are to enable the entrepreneur to get started again and to get into debt without complete bankruptcy, are quite inappropriate for farms. There is a great deal of experience here that, in practice — when it is made up of large buildings, fields and forests — these current debt-arrangement laws do not really fit in with the dictating of these farms, and I would now like to see the government, under the leadership of its Minister of Justice, wondering whether there would be any changes in our insolvency laws that could make these farms more viable, such as those that could be viable if some kind of restructuring procedure were to be carried out there. Mr President! Now that I have been able to speak for the first time here in the Parliament designed by J. S. Sirén, who was born in my own home, in Finland 100, I would like to thank all the voters in my constituency for being here in the toilet during the 100th anniversary. I'm trying to be worthy of your trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u121	Mr President! This third draft amending budget can be approached in very many ways. You can terrorize it, you can complain about it, you can thank it, but perhaps the most constructive way to read it is to start by looking at facts from eye to eye. Then, when you carefully begin to read this, you can make some of the following withdrawals here: The amount of central government debt at the end of 2017 is estimated to be around EUR 107 billion, which is 48 per cent of GDP. In other words, the debt in euros is increasing, but the ratio of GDP is decreasing. The government is also taking on more debt. There are many different kinds of debt. In this case, this debt-taking of a few hundred million is a productive debt, a debt that is made to produce investments, to bring additional benefits to Finland, so as a debt it may not be as terrible and terrible as what has been said here today in a few speeches. I think this priority is particularly important here. It is precisely where it is thought that there will be even more returns. So let's fight where the iron's hot. The long tradition of Finnish shipbuilding continues in Turku, although it is owned by a foreigner. Finnish professionalism is at a high level, and in the entire Turku economic area it is currently producing a common good, which will then come right up to the state economy. Similarly, EUR 40 million will be put into the Innovation Financing Centre to bring forward research, to have certain things done right now, not next year or next. Then an increase is proposed in the estimate budget for the refinancing loan for export credit, i.e. the assumption that exports must be supported. There has already been enough talk about these agricultural issues. [Department :Noole! ] Then this conversion training, which also brings 550 new opportunities. Then the promotion of tourism: an increase of EUR 800000 in Finpro's state aid is proposed. The situation in China is specifically mentioned here. I do not know if you noticed, but today a new Chinese airline announced that they will start a new route from Beijing to Helsinki. It is already another Chinese airline that launches direct flights from China to Finland because Finland is currently an interesting investment destination. This too is new, and we should talk much more about it than about these shortcomings that we have here. Then there is the state funding of universities: it is proposed to increase the amount of 5 million, which is mainly directed at this pharmacy business, which had fallen short of the treatment. Now we're patching it up, as it is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u122	Mr President! I will return to this multi-functional arena in Tampere and its financing in this third amending budget: we have many projects, good projects that have been supported by the state over the years. Let me mention a few: Opera House, Music Centre, Kiasma, Olympic Stadium, Central Library, Hartwall Arena. Some of these have already been completed some 20 years ago and over, and some are currently under construction. This geographical division should also be taken into account here, and this multipurpose arena is such that it is outside the capital region but still serves the whole of Finland. This is where Wallinheimo, a representative of Finland, brought up projects in Jyväskylä, Turku and Oulu with regard to physical activity, and we should probably come back to them later. On these building-related issues: I am trying here yesterday and today to see if there is any common comparison or table of state-supported projects, how they have come about, what results have been obtained from them, how many euros have been put into them and how many percent of it has been state money. At least I haven't found a single table like that yet. On the other hand, a report by former budget manager and liquidator Erkki Virtanen has been published in March on the problems of state-funded construction, which contains 11 clear recommendations on how to take these projects forward in order to achieve sustainable and effective state funding. Among other things, the Alliance model was the first to emerge there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u123	President! They must have been put into the words of the Concari politician Treasure "Sapeli" Simonen: "I have not yet come to the conclusion of what this policy really is after decades. Ninety per cent of it is purely theatre, and what the rest of it is 10 per cent, it has not yet been found out to me." In fact, a little of this type of thought came to mind during the debatation, so the unexpected debate over this amending budget was. On the one hand, the opposition, by its very nature, supported all good things and opposed all bad things. The Debat was full of deliberate misunderstanding, fanciful interpretation, and a variety of clichés and phrases. But we must also acknowledge that, for example, the opposition representative, Mr Laukkanen, gave a very constructive speech, which has just been continued in his actual speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u126	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the governments, the previous and current encouraging employment figures in Central Finland published today. The fact that the number of unemployed people in Central Finland has fallen by nearly 4,500 per year is certainly something that we can all be satisfied with in this Chamber, and which is most gratifying, the number of job vacancies is also on the increase. On the other hand, it would predict that strong economic growth will continue and that the new unemployed will have jobs in the coming months. All of this, therefore, shows in concrete terms that the economic policy line adopted by the government is being dismantled and that a good career is taking place in this respect. This is a good place to go. Mr President! On the other hand, the third additional budget proposal for the current year under discussion today shows a great deal about the government's will for economic policy. The government is not satisfied with, and therefore is not in the face of, the good news, but is determined to continue its efforts to increase the employment rate. For example, the EUR 30,9 million allocated to innovation support for shipbuilding hopefully will lead to Turku Shipyard's full order books being extended in the 2020s. In concrete terms, the action to achieve better employment is to allocate EUR 10 million to conversion training. This puts 550 students in a better position in the labour market. A good proposal is also an increase of EUR 40 million in the payment of Tekes' grants and investments in digitalisation. On this point, I would like to highlight the so-called KIRA-digital project to implement the digitisation of the built environment and construction. In practice, it is a question of making planning and building bureaucracy transparent and digital in the future. An additional EUR 3.75 million is now proposed to continue this project, and it is also good that the promotion of tourism, the special focus of the Chinese market, is now being invested. Mr President! As a sports politician, I would also like to thank you for the EUR 18 million support given to the Tampere multi-purpose arena. It is good that the conditions of sport are improved. In addition, it is valuable that in addition to Helsinki, ice hockey World Championships can also be organised elsewhere in the future. On the other hand, it is desirable that the same line should continue. Many localities — such as Jyväskylä, Oulu, Turku, Helsinki — have equally ambitious national sports facilities projects under way. It would be important for these projects that the criteria are the same as for this project or, for example, for Kymi Ring. There is a great need for equity here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u127	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen thought, with a little play, that enough has been said about agriculture. I don't think so. The plight of farmers is exceptionally great this year. Exactly 150 years of the biggest famine in the history of Finland, caused by exceptionally bad harvest years. We do not want to repeat this; we want to keep farmers happy and help them to cope with their important work. The cold and rainy summer has stretched the season exceptionally late. It is very rare that there will still be a significant part of the harvest at the end of October that will not be harvested. Part of the crop stays in the field. Last night, when I drove to Helsinki, I saw several thongs in the fields. Farmers are still trying to recover what they can. The differences between farms are large. Some farmers have harvested the best harvest in years, especially for rye. However, it is common for wooded cereals that the drying costs are about double and the quality losses are significant. The government will support farmers with an additional EUR 25 million. This money is not entirely new money, but 10 million will be taken from within the agriculture and forestry budget. The money will thus be used to increase the refund of energy taxes. Although much is said about agricultural subsidies and some representatives would like to abandon them, there is the root cause of the spiral of farmers' incomes from the market. Farmers' incomes have collapsed while the value of domestic food is high. It is right to help prepare Finnish food. This increase of 25 million will do some good, but look to the future. Sustainable solutions to the profitability problems of agriculture can only be achieved with a better share of the final price of the product by the producer. If the final price of the product were to be more fairly distributed between the producer and the trade, less support would be needed in the future. Government supports Care about the farmer project for EUR 1 million for the survival of farmers and long-term preventive well-being work. I consider this kind of support to be of paramount importance. We cannot afford to lose any agricultural workers because he is no longer able to cope. Mr President! I've met a lot of farmers in the last few months. Physical work, paperwork, authorities and being at the mercy of rules and weather is the everyday life of farmers all over Finland. In the middle of the day there may be a telephone call that the next day a vet will be coming to the farm. Such a call will always mean extra work for the farmer, even if he knows that everything is in order on the farm. Annual agricultural payments are conditional on the farmer being monitored by the amount laid down by the EU Commission regulation. I personally would like some sense of this, and I understand that many others do. And if you are still mistaken for organic farming, there are enough checks on the farm. The organic regulation is still being turned over in the EU and there are now both good and bad things for Finland. Let us hope that bad things remain outside the EU tables. In any case, thank you to the government for your prompt action to put an end to the crisis in agriculture. This EUR 25 million will certainly not go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u128	Mr President! At the moment, we are dealing with the third amending budget. Much has been said about the plight of agriculture. Indeed, this year’s harvest prospects were good and excellent at first. At least the rye was collected from the fields, and it produced an excellent harvest, but the other cereals got a little worse, and a rather large part of it was left unscathed, especially wheat and then oats. In other words, these too would have been needed for the current domestic food production, and of course all grain should have been recovered there. Here the effects of Russian trade are still visible. The price of meat is quite low, as is the price of eggs, and there is no cheering for milk products. In other words, very many farmers are currently in financial distress and also in mental distress. In that sense, it is a good thing that, through the preparation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry — we must thank our Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Jari Leppää — we have started to bring in a new crisis package which will now also receive the money in this third amending budget, which is EUR 25 million to improve the plight of farmers. In addition, it is an excellent thing to care about the farmer. Quite a few farmers, after such a dark year, also have dark thoughts about their future. As previous speakers have said, many, many people are alone with their own ideas, with their own plight, so it is good that we have instruments and projects to help the farmer cope — especially when the autumn is darkening and we see what is at the bottom of the grain basket or at the bottom of a bag of money. That is, the draft budget in this respect, one million. For the Farmer project, it is excellent. I would also like to raise the issue of security of supply in all its aspects. With regard to crisis situations: which machines remain for farmers, which machines, which tractors then take the state in a crisis situation? We have a few farmers in each keeper, who are farmers in times of crisis and then produce us food. But there is still work to be done in this overall system of national defence training and crisis-time cultivation, including the targeting of machinery associated with it. I therefore hope that this would be one more topic that would be raised in the debate in Parliament and then in the wider context. Security of supply is important. Thank you again for this multi-purpose arena in Tampere. Eighteen million have also been allocated here to build it. It's a big project. There's gonna be a deck on top of the railroad, and there's gonna be construction. It also becomes a multipurpose arena where hockey can be played, and it is very easy to get to it by train. Tampere has invested in many large destinations recently, and I'm sure this will also take Tampere as a well-known hockey town further. Thank you also for this innovation aid, which has been given to the shipping industry, amounting to 30,9 million. When the iron's hot, you have to beat it. We have good targets and innovations, which are currently being done in the new shipping industry, different aspects of electricity and robotics and related issues. But I would also point out that when these old ships are unloaded, we have had various tests on it. I believe that part of the innovation aid, for example, goes to how ships are unloaded in such a way that it would least harm the environment and make it as much as possible of that metal for recycling. In other words, this type of project activity also exists in Turku, and hopefully it will not have these ships unloaded under unethical conditions in various parts of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u129	Mr President! First of all, it must be noted that this third amending budget is the common view of all the government parties, so that it is certainly not worth making a great deal of staffing. Personally, I am very pleased that the plight of farmers is now quite widely recognised, and I am sure this is due to the fact that there are quite a few ministers in the government who have experience in the agricultural sector. In particular, I am pleased that this is precisely the most important point, namely the dismantling of the agricultural expenditure structure, and this increase in energy tax refunds is the right thing to do. In general terms, I think it is worth drawing attention to the fact that when much is said about subsidies and producer prices, they are not in sync with the prevailing agricultural spending structure, and that is the main problem. When we make individual decisions in Parliament, in the government and when, perhaps in the Energy Agency, the overall picture is ignored. Every government has been able to raise energy taxes, but their impact on small businesses and agriculture is, after all, quite disastrous, and that is what we are beginning to see. In my opinion, this should also be considered in the Ministry of Finance. It is easy to visit a consumer’s purse and, for example, a car driver’s purse. A new Finnish record was made last year in the amount of taxes levied on transport: 8 billion. And when we know today how little young people drive driving licences, then there will be such a phenomenon — just as injustice as in the formation of the value of taxation in buildings — that taxation will begin to be directed at a more narrow and selective group that is no longer able to choose whether they are taxed or not. Here, where transport works well, public transport, people can choose whether or not they are the subject of motor vehicle taxation, but in Eastern and Northern Finland you cannot choose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u130	And Congressman Rossi. — Representative Rossi is... Coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u131	Mr President! Your son is awake. Mr. Speaker! This has been the subject of an amending budget debate for almost three hours, which has also been largely an economic debate, including a debate on inequality, to which I would like to say that, of course, the feeling and reality of a person who is struggling with everyday problems are a practical way of dealing with everyday issues. The bills are heavy, the income can be reduced, the future does not look good. This is the everyday position that Parliament must be able to take, both by government, by government parties and by all of us in Parliament. You can't deny the truth, you can't deny the bread lines, and you can't move your eyes from them. Of course, the statistics show their own reality, which may even rise even more at this stage from the macro-economic point of view. Before the macro-economic situation — that is, this gross domestic product and export withdrawal and thus the improvement of things — has moved back to ordinary people’s everyday lives, it will easily take up to years. The Sipilä Government has been working on Finland for two and a half years now. There's about a year and a half left in the election period. This project will take about 10 years before the development of the whole Finnish economy has been brought to a new career. The challenge of EUR 10 billion has been faced by this government through various measures. All we have to do is identify and acknowledge that this is a difficult exercise. That's enough for the next government and the next government. In this sense, it is very difficult to make quick profits. Whether or not the government has a heart in its decision-making: yes, there must be a heart, and if there is no heart, then at least we in the centre demand that it be found there and that it be seen in people's everyday life, too, so that the reality is quite right. Mr President! I was just looking at the statistics that are probably real. Currently, migration gain in Finland is mainly to Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi and Pirkanmaa. In my own country, North Savo, the statistics for January-September show a migration loss of 884 people. Only the City of Kuopio has grown by 279 persons, compared with 830 in the same period last year, in the early part of the year. In other words, Kuopio's growth has also slowed down in this respect. What's this about? It shows that economic growth has started to rise. These fronts, which include these regions — Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Pirkanmaa — for a number of reasons, due to economic growth, are currently leading the workforce. How can we answer this question? It's a big question. It's a big challenge for the government. It's a big challenge for Parliament. It can be said that all these others, with the exception of three provinces, are in a situation where they also need support from the state, from society. I don't think it's going to help with the social welfare reform. I don't think it's going to help with the regional reform. They are state measures that create and safeguard the functioning of services, but we need investment in industry, research, development, education and training. And they will only be achieved, Mr President, with a good left-wing opposition in particular, when the wheels of the economy are turned around in their entirety. The government is still in debt. They haven't been able to break the debt. Neither has the opposition been able to break it. If we talk about a few millions or tens or even hundreds of millions, then this level of EUR 110 billion is virtually meaningless. But we also need the perspective of the future that the Finnish economy must be brought to a point so that we do not pass these own consumption bills on to the next generations. It is one of the most important things in Finland's 100 years of independent history that we do not pass on debt to future generations. In this sense, we are forced to look at it in such a way that we can get through these years: by compromising, by doing more work and thus by achieving results. And while we still have the most difficult year of cultivation in the EU, we have a lot of problems. Of course, they can be blamed on the government, on whom, but, in any case, agriculture is also a matter in which we keep a firm line in terms of security of supply and people's livelihood and life, that in Finland there will be opportunities for action for the benefit of the people in the future, both in agriculture and in the food economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u132	Mr President! This refund of 25 million energy taxes to farmers has certainly been welcomed here in all the parties. We ourselves have received the news directly from the farmers as to the situation. In Northern Savo, among other things, between 20% and 30% of cereals remain in the field completely and the quality losses are considerable. Indeed, there are situations and farms where grain harvests have been forced into the field and there is a very difficult economic situation. It will be difficult next spring to buy the inputs of the coming year again: with what money will they be bought? The subsidies that come now are likely to go to pay the old bills, which means that there is really a great deal of distress on the farms. Of course, apart from the various types of support measures, as has been mentioned here in the speeches, we would need the right level of the producer price. That is, of course, the basis for everything, and these support measures are just a Band-Aid in these situations. In this context, I have pointed out in the past that, in some way, when we are currently lacking national crop damage legislation and even in the EU we were not warmed up to such a crisis package, it would be very important for us to develop an insurance premium that would involve the food industry and trade. Since consumers want domestic grain and consumers want domestic food products, it is wrong that when you have poor weather and lose crops, it is the farmer alone who is responsible for it all. In other words, you should develop a kind of liability insurance fund, which could then be taken into account for this type of fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u133	Mr President! Here I have been listening to this debate, and the basic Finns have already highlighted the cost of immigration, which is still not in the right place in Finland. This issue of immigration is not properly dealt with by the government, when we do not even know what it is actually costing, but at least in this amending budget we are now seeing an old familiar tendence, which means that we are adding subsidies to the customers of reception. This is an increase of EUR 11.2 million. This shows the situation, which is after the influx of migrants and after the arrivals stabilized on this sort of thing, that as if routinely granted more money. In the same way, legal aid to the legal sector will be increased by EUR 1.6 million with this amending budget, which means that more than 10 million Finnish taxpayers' money will be put into the bottomless well of immigration and, therefore, humanitarian migration. But here are the big questions that have a bearing on the background. How stupid are we in Finland when each country's responsibility for its own citizens is outsourced and development aid is made as if it were more of a product of this kind? Yes, I would expect the government to rush this survey of the costs of immigration, from which the Finns of Finland eventually received the entry in the Government Programme that it will be done, but it does not seem to be doing so. They do not want to tell the people what this huge amount of immigrants actually cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u134	Mr President! The third amending budget under discussion contains almost only good things. Support for shipbuilding by 30 and support for Tekes' innovation funding by 40 million is also in order, especially in this situation. The investments of 20 million in digitalisation and strong eID tools in public administration are also justified. The most important thing in this amending budget, however, is to support agriculture, because bad weather conditions hit a long-standing crisis in support of agriculture. Mr President! Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo and Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Jari Leppä prepared a total of approximately EUR 25 million in support measures to help farmers in a difficult harvest situation. Of the money already decided on in the past, 10 million will be re-allocated to alleviate the acute crisis and the funds will be allocated to farmers through the energy tax refund system and within the framework of EU legislation. An allocation of EUR 21 million is also proposed for national compensatory allowances. Support is also sought from the European Union because of exceptional weather conditions. By the spring 2018 spending limits debate, the Government will examine whether EU State aid rules will allow a permanent system for granting State guarantees to facilitate liquidity problems for farms due to exceptional circumstances. These measures and the funds allocated to farmers support the survival of Finnish farmers and provide relief for the difficult economic situation. It is estimated that harvest losses will rise to up to EUR 100 to 150 million, which means that further solutions are needed to improve the profitability of agriculture. Mr President! After this third amending budget, net borrowing in 2017 will be around EUR 4.5 billion. This is, of course, a large sum, but this is one billion less than the original budget for this year. This is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u135	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u136	Mr President! The only reason I speak from this place is because at first reading I made a longer speech about this tightening up of the taxation of wind power. History is, of course, when it comes to the life-cycle taxation of wind power, that in 2014 it was more or less doubled, and now this increase in taxation of wind power in the government's proposal tightens it three times the taxation of doubled wind power a few years ago. Here, at first reading, this proposal was widely evaluated, it was argued that wind power companies are doing a very good job — they are doing so. There was talk of increasing the willingness and compassion to make real estate tax revenue available to municipalities in this way to plan wind power more in municipalities. All of this is true, but it is also true that, when we have a climate strategy and we have very ambitious targets for reducing climate emissions and increasing renewable energy, there is a weak signal in this situation that we are inoculating genuinely emission-free, clean renewable energy with such a strong increase in the property tax. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u137	Mr President! This left-wing movement is from a different planet. Everyone recognises that wind power is currently a very profitable form of energy production. From the point of view of municipalities, this is a matter of significant income that can contribute to meeting the challenges posed by the construction of wind power — which also raises problems. This benefit for municipalities therefore increases the acceptability of wind power, and we certainly have a common strategy that the share of wind power will increase and is part of this overall energy palette. But this line of yours is contradictory: you do not want municipalities to receive more income to finance basic services, social and health services, education, employment and so on, you do not want to take advantage of this element, but you are opposed to this very good and right and just government proposal. In this respect, it is very contradictory that you are talking here about the need to improve and manage services for the poor, but you
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u138	Mr President! If this threefold increase in the taxation of wind power on real estate is only a good thing — it guarantees the essential services of the municipalities, it does not have a negative signal effect on the production of renewable energy, and there are no other concerns about what we have said about the inconsistency of taxation, the fact that the aid policy is going to be renewed, the aid schemes will be renewed, the property taxes will be renewed and so on — that is, if it is only positive, why is the government not proposing a 100-fold or 50-fold increase? Why don't you act like you don't have a bad side to it? I think it's a bit of a pious thing to do if someone's business, whether it's wind power or whatever, to multiply taxation is a positive thing for the industry, that's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u139	And yet again the replies to the representatives of Rantakangas and Suutari, and then we go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u140	Mr President! After all, wind farms now come under the same power plant tax, where other power plants are included. Which means they're coming into the same circle. This 100-fold increase in your proposal shows how inconsistent the Left Alliance is with this taxation of wind power. They now come to the same line, which is a good thing. They are not treated more affectionately than any other power plant unit. In this respect, this government proposal is entirely consistent. It will ensure basic services and financing, employment, education, health care, all the good that is important to the local population in those wind farms. In other words, only fair tax treatment will be introduced when wind power is included in this tax. This affects, for example, the North Ostrobothnia in a very important way. I do not know whether there are any of these mills in Espoo, but the North Nordic country is being touched in a very significant way, and this is a very worthy thing that I believe is supported by all Northern Ostrobothnian representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u141	Chairman! I think it is very clear that we should keep these different forms of taxation coldly separate from each other. Under no circumstances is the property tax a guiding tax. This must be the case for municipalities, where, if harm is caused, there are similar criteria, and that is what we are doing now. The municipalities have come up with a lot of commendable statements on this very issue, and then we will have a lot of tools to support the various forms of energy when we want to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u142	Let me give Mr Estilä the floor. He has obviously not pressed the button, but he did get up, and getting up evidently meant a request to speak, a request for a reply. — Mr Eestilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u143	Mr President! You've interpreted it quite correctly. There is talk here of a real estate tax on wind power, and yes, in a certain way there is a guiding effect. I bring an example of a very practical life: in North Savo, Vieremaa has a delicate nature, a very quiet nature and wilderness area that is very valuable and that must be saved, but the higher the property tax rises, the harder the town wants to land a wind farm that confuses these fine landscapes. I bring up this element because it is obvious that there is money in the explanatory statement. When you go to sensitive areas where you wind up, which are areas of the forest government, you want money, the municipality wants money, you go, like, blinded by money, you go and do rapes in such wilderness areas and nature areas, so I don't think it's any good at all. It should therefore be distinguished from money and then whether it is usually appropriate to form a wind farm somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u144	In this debate, I will give the last speeches to the representatives of Rantakangas and Uotila, and then we will move on to the list of speakers. — Representative Rantakangas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u145	Mr President! I would like to reiterate that wind farms will be subject to the same tax rate if the municipalities so wish, as is the case with other power plant locations. This energy support system is being reformed, as Mr Uotila is sure to know: there will be an auction mechanism, and then it will put all forms of renewable energy production on the same line in principle, where there is a lot of good. Of course, according to the statements, we still have to look at how, for example, bioenergy manages and so on, but, in principle, it is the right thing for us to build the renewable energy capacity that is as good as possible in terms of market conditions. This is the line that's supposed to be on. But all in all, renewable energy represents a great potential for growth for the Finnish economy and employment — a great potential for growth that needs to be exploited: replacing imported energy, replacing fossil energy, such as coal, to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u146	Chairman! I think that Mr Estilä's speech was very honest and correct. After all, it is a bit dangerous, on the other hand, if the municipalities, in their desire for money, in the hope of tax banks, make planning to permanently ruin beautiful cultural landscapes, beautiful natural landscapes, then it will be a steering effect in the negative direction. We must increase renewable energy, we must also increase wind energy, but primarily the construction and deployment of their motive power plants should come from something other than this short-sighted, short-term economic advantage, whether it concerns the municipality or it concerns the operator.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u147	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u148	President! In this proposal, as Social Democrats, we are behind it and we would like to point out that it was very pleasant that when we dealt with this in the tax section, together we received two impetuss which, however, safeguard the will of Parliament in that the government must be able to continue to create the conditions for renewable energy sources to survive, including wind power and, of course, solar power, for example, and we are therefore pressing ahead with these future measures. This was also a long-standing proposal from our Social Democrats, and Mr Harakka here, among others, worked very hard on these contributions, and thanks to all the members of the section and all the others for their good cooperation in this regard. We can argue for and against this, threats and opportunities. On the other hand, with this particular proposal, I understand perfectly well the concern that there has been a lot of changes and that they have been quite major in recent times, but, at the same time, of course, wind power has been very positive at the moment about other conditions. Of course, of course, in this case we must always remember the climate strategy objectives of renewable energy as a whole, and also the fact that our domestic market will remain of interest to these investments in new renewable energy. On the other hand, I think it is a very good argument that this tax increase allows, perhaps in a certain way, to improve the acceptability of wind power and to guarantee more stable tax revenues for municipalities and, of course, to encourage more wind power in a good sense, of course, bearing in mind this recent debate on these so-called sensitive areas and the desire for money and so on. Of course, these must always be proportionate and fully weighed,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u149	Mr President! The increase in the property tax on wind power plants is justified, but comes at a difficult moment. At the same time as wind power plants are also put at the general rate of taxation for power plants, the current wind power tariff ends. The problems of the current generous support model are well known. It has undoubtedly increased wind power production, since the risk-free return on investments has been quite unique. At the same time, however, it has weakened the acceptability of wind power and perhaps all renewable energy among the public. This only proves how important it is for business subsidies and production subsidies to be carefully planned if they are needed at all. And they should also, in principle, be temporary, i.e. there must be a plan to achieve a market-based situation. This is therefore the case for all aid to businesses, which seems to be an overwhelming task for this government as well. The problem of acceptability has increased in recent years, especially as opinions against wind power have been disseminated in an organised way. I do not want to engage in a debate on explosive bats, but to say that if municipal residents feel, in other words, experientially, that their housing comfort is deteriorating, then it is justifiable that the construction of wind power will also bring the same benefits to the municipality's treasury as any other power station.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u150	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u165	Mr President! Wind power has come to stay. That summer there was the opportunity to move around much in the Nordic countries and I found that Sweden in particular has a lot of wind power: small places, big places, big rotors, medium-sized rotors, all kinds of rotors. I do not think that this development should be slowed down. I took the floor in fact because I would like to thank the committee for its good work and, in particular, for this second statement, which states that Parliament requires that the government prepare without delay a model for promoting investments in renewable energy so as not to hinder investment. I think this is an excellent statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u166	Mr President! I would like to take the floor because I would like to thank Mr Loh for his very good speech, in which he said that the national landscape must not be ruined and the same applies to sensitive areas. At least I am neutral about wind power, just as I am neutral about the wolf, but you just have to know where they are at any time. As an example of what I have just said and I would like to repeat: when Vieremä Municipality dealt with the creation of a wind farm in its municipal council, it was set up in a forest government area between Vieremän Salahm and Kajaani Murtomä, one of the largest quiet uniform wilderness areas in Finland. This is the case when money was used as the basis, and if more money is made out of it, then obviously even more money is used as the basis, and this is the factor to which Mrs Salmon referred, namely that tourism in Lapland is once and for all ruined if windsurfs of more than 200 metres spin there, when people go out for peace and beautiful landscapes. That this aesthetic question really needs to be taken into account. It is not at all a question of where they should be invested because of energy or money, but they simply do not fit somewhere, because the damage they cause is many times as much as anyone gets through tax or other benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u167	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal amends or actually corrects Article 14 of the Real Estate Tax Act. In practice, wind farms will be subject to the same power plant tax as other power plants. As has been said here today, in the future we will look at the entities — not in practice a single wind farm, as has been the case so far — when it comes to determining whether a power plant is covered by the so-called small-scale power plant regulation or by the general property tax. We have discussed, among other things, the effects of wind power on the landscape, which must also be taken seriously, but Mrs Meri raised these health problems very well in the debate. They should be taken even more seriously than landscape damage. For many people, it is a matter of health and self-sustaining. If a person suffers from the disadvantages of these wind turbines’ infrasounds, he may even lose his job and his ability to work, which is certainly not a joke, let us remember it. But with this proposal, hopefully the acceptability of wind power will increase. Of course it's necessary. At present, a high wind feed-in tariff of EUR 83.50 per megawatt hour is still in place. This tariff quota is, of course, closed, but these old commitments are still in force. The profitability of wind power has continued to increase as an energy form, and the support level is also particularly high. The Finns Party supports this government's proposal to make different forms of energy production more equal to tax treatment, and this will also enable municipalities to achieve greater tax revenues. Of course, they do not have to use this higher percentage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u168	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen said that there are so many large and small rotors in Sweden and there are so many wind turbines, and I just wanted to say that the property tax is 0.2%. I am not familiar with the Swedish aid scheme for the rest of the time, and of course the tax is only one factor in what will then solve investments, both at municipal level and at the level of the operators. However, I now wanted the record to show that in Sweden the property tax on the wind power plant is 0.2%.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u169	Mr President! In my opinion, it is also a good debate to assess when, in my view, I believe that the property tax, insofar as it applies to these wind farms, is in line with the wishes of the municipalities. As a Satakuntaman, this must be seen selfishly as a good alternative, knowing the pressure of the Honka River, Merikarvia and Pori and the fact that the construction of the infrastructure has largely been on the hands of the municipalities and has been actively involved. But when I have accepted in my previous speeches that a single wind power plant in the form of a small power plant would be outside this tax again, the representatives of Eestilä and Salmon did bring this landscaped and touristic view. In other words, in the assessment of the construction of wind power, we must also look at its municipality's view as to whether a single operator can build a wind power plant on its territory, even if it is not within the framework of this property tax, because we already know how big the traction factor is in silence and in our tourism and landscapes, so that we are careful in further preparation. I agree with the second statement in the report, which requires the Government to take action to look at these new forms of support for renewable energy and to further increase its attractiveness. Yes, we still need new steps to increase the production of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u170	Mr President! Those potential damage to the health of wind power are serious issues. As a friend of animals, I also consider it serious that birds and flying mammals also fly there. I do not find it amusing in that way, as in the SDP, it has always been made a joke. Mr Estilä's speech rightly left me in mind when he said that he was neutral about wind power. The political situation in Finland may have been so interesting in the last 10 to 15 years that some forms of energy can be viewed neutral, especially as a representative of Parliament, and then when I listened to that speech, I do not quite know how neutral he was about it. But quite reasonable words he used in his speech as such; rather, the problem is probably in the party he represents, in the assembly. And, on the other hand, many other parties here are not going to be able to get through with clean papers, precisely because, in wind power, we must always remember what a senseless burning of money has been like in Finland when billions and billions of euros have been put into this FIT system — the worst decisions that have ever been made economically in Finland. A completely miserable way of reducing CO2 emissions, and it is probably not a future form of energy, even though this is probably the way to sell it to an ignorant part of the population. But I think people do know what this scam is all about, this burning billions or throwing them into the wind. These investments in wind power have been the worst source of employment. Nothing has been so badly employed in Finland, never like this money thrown into wind power. They haven't worked. That there have been some bad decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u171	Mr President! In retrospect, it can certainly be said that the level of the feed-in tariff was too high to see where the price of electricity has developed in the Nordic electricity market. But remember that when these decisions are made, they are made on the basis of the facts of the time, with the best information at the time. So, too, this decision was made, and yet it caused wind power to be strongly set off to build in Finland, which was the goal. We are now moving towards a new support system for renewable energy, which is in the process of being prepared, based on technological neutrality. And so I see, in fact, that this tax solution, which we are now doing, is based on the fact that it is not right to look only at individual wind turbines if they are built as a whole and then connected to the grid through one point of connection, but to seek neutrality here too. If there is one wind power package, then property taxation is treated in the same way as the rest of the power plant, and I think this is the right policy. But I have to wonder a little bit about the position of the Left Alliance. In fact, the fundamental difference here, as was also evident from the speech of the SDP's Haraka, is actually only that now, to these municipalities, which are actually suffering from the handicaps of the wind power, you are not making it possible for them to decide for themselves whether to levy a little more property tax on wind turbines in this situation. I could say that it would be worth reconsidering this point of view from the point of view of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u172	Mr President! However, with regard to Mr Salmon's excellent speech, the additional consideration is that, when it comes to technological neutrality, it is quite right that different power plants pay a uniform property tax. It is certainly the case that the mistake made during the previous government was that, when this FIT system was created, the property tax system was not created at the same time. Is it, then, balanced with solar power, which I believe is often not made up of units so large that it would form a real estate? Especially when it is a decentralised system that talks about individual panels, one might think that in many cases the property tax probably does not apply in the same way as larger and more centralised plants. But, in fact, in this respect, I am prepared to give this very decentralised small-scale solar production the small advantage it might gain through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u173	Mr President! I think it is a good thing to increase taxation on wind power or to increase taxation on it, and there is no need to be so extremely technologically neutral in this matter, because technology itself is not neutral, because the fact is that even if wind power has no adverse effects, solar power, for example, would still work much better in Finland. As far as zoning and landscapes are concerned, I do not know if there is anything more sacred in Finland than wind turbines. What more could a 200-metre-high zoning be in the middle of the most beautiful nature than a wind farm? Even in this country, an inconceivable plague is born of zoning, when you try to play a house over six stories in the city center. This phenomenon is repeated everywhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u174	Mr President! As a resident of the wind power city and a resident of the wind power village, I must say that the wind power plants will talk. They speak of us as decision-makers, they speak especially of the people in whose backyard those mills rise. Who, then, will answer when those wind turbines cease to operate, or end up at the end of their journey? Who pays the costs when they have to be demolished and landscaping done? That's what I'd be interested in. These scenic handicaps, flashbacks, low-frequency sound, these are real. At least I take seriously all the feedback people tell me.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u177	Mr President! Congressman Tavio doubted my own neutral attitude. I can tell you that I have a rather neutral attitude towards nuclear power, counter-pressure power and wind power. In my opinion, when we talk about future energy policy, solar power and wind power have their place when they are placed in a place where they do not cause any problems for other businesses or other values. The cost of wind power has fallen down and the power has gone up, so I am not opposed, rather neutral about it. But, of course, this neutrality includes that if a nuclear power plant were to begin planning that beach in Töölönlahti, I would probably object. Not because I have an emotional attitude towards nuclear power, but because it is simply the wrong place, and the same applies to wind power, that if it is placed in the environment in sensitive areas, then I am opposed to it. But I am against wind power in itself, which is a rational form of energy: the power levels have risen so much and these current wind turbines are in a completely different category from the point of view of repayment, so it is now worth dismantling the old wind turbines and building a new one because it has a completely different power and cost structure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u178	Mr President! Representative Hänninen noted the many disadvantages that people experience in wind power, but at the same time she opposes that the municipality should now receive tax compensation that it could use in a certain way. In other words, the municipality would be an excellent unit to allocate to those who have disadvantages, in some way, because the current situation is that wind power can only benefit landowners and wind power owners, and not to those who feel that they are suffering various disadvantages, come this allocation through wind power and is not easily channelled through wind power, except so that the municipality receives more tax revenue from it and is able to take this into account. And this argument, which you used, seems to me to be an excellent basis for supporting this government's proposal. As far as Mr Haraka's reflection on solar power is concerned, I think it was quite a good reflection. Of course, this must happen when we consider the technological neutrality of renewable energy, and then we have to try to put everything on the same line and probably even so that, if there is a solar power plant that is large enough, that would also be subject to property taxation. It is clear that the small units of solar power do not have any problem finding out what might be, and that is why I understand that it may be treated in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u179	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Hänn for his excellent speech. As I recall, you too are in the indoor air group where I am and where there was this kind of seminar, where we actually discussed various diseases for a very long time — that was, of course, where indoor air diseases were at the centre — about the feeling that a person has symptoms and is not taken seriously. Thank you for this speech, and I am sure you too have received a great deal of contact with these various wind power projects. I considered that the vice-chairman of this group was Eloranta, the SDP, and he has been very understanding of these indoor illnesses, which number some 800,000 a year. He notes that the world has research evidence that when there is such an environmental sensitivity that is just a symptom code. It should be classified so that these people can be covered by the care and social care of the disease. There is actually the same problem here, Mrs Harakka, that there are symptoms but there is not yet that disease code properly found. As Mr Salmon said, things must be looked into very well, and that is precisely why I would not go briskly adding anything until that research data has been completed, because it is quite difficult to reverse it — as Mr Hänninen said, who will then dismantle it? It's not that simple. I personally think it is good to have renewable energy and to find different forms of energy, but they must be health-friendly. That is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u180	Mr President! I really wanted to be careful and careful about what I said. Personally, I am not such a medical expert as to be able to take up such a classification. I think that, as I think I am saying for the third time, the argument is that people are experiencing these symptoms, without having to go deeper into my medical skills, as I said. The precautionary principle in itself is good, but I do not understand why wind turbines cannot be dismantled, if then there is no doubt that they are dangerous. After all, for many years now, asbestos has been dismantled from all buildings, when it has become apparent that it is dangerous to health. That is exactly what must be done to act on what is scientific evidence and then we legislators to the best of our knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u181	The debate is not yet closed; Mrs Myllykoski has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u182	Yes, Mr President. I am not going to anticipate the responsibility for the dismantling of wind turbines, but I am aware, as far as the demolition of asbestos is concerned, that the costs did not go at least to the builders who have put asbestos there. It's been that technology, and then it's been dismantled. The costs are also paid for by society in a long way. But if I try to go through this debate a little bit, then I would like to say to Mrs Lohe that at least I did not interpret Mrs Hänninen's speech as you suggested: if you could understand this statement so that, now that this property tax is going to the municipalities, it will be directed at those who suffer its adverse effects, you will certainly find each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u183	And Mr. Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u184	Mr President! The municipality itself can decide how to use the funds. This is a common industry, and democracy works in the municipality. Similarly, the municipality can decide whether or not to plan for real estate tax, regardless of wind power, i.e. to visit this kind of value added. As far as the dismantling of wind turbines is concerned, however, it is so that they are reasonably defrost and we also have existing examples. If I don't remember correctly, it seems that some wind turbines have been demolished in Hailuodo, but there are other places in Finland where they have been dismantled. Of course, the companies they own have an obligation to pay the costs if they cease to operate. In other words, it is not problematic in the sense that if it were to stop, it would create some heavy obligations for society, but for me, if it were to become apparent at some point that wind power would become a very clear health hazard, then at a reasonable cost those wind turbines could be dismantled. Even in that sense, I do not think this is as problematic as some other business activity, for example, which may pose risks to society that when it ends, then this restoration and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u185	Yes, Mr President. I thought, however, that in my own speech, I would like to say briefly to Mrs Lohe that those who suffer from those disadvantages should be compensated for it. There are different practices in municipalities — as the representative said, it is up to the municipality. But it is often thought of us people in the outlying region, who are there from 300 to 700, that what does it matter if they are slightly affected by the disadvantages of the wind farm, and then the money is then directed to the town where the mills are not necessarily built? In my opinion, we should call for the social responsibility where those windmills are built to be reflected locally in the villages as well as the tax revenue and development of village activities, village schools and sports services, that there should also be some other services, not just these industrial windmill power plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u186	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u187	Mr President! It should be reiterated that it is good in itself that the government withdrew this bad proposal rather than the planned buy-in of real estate tax. In this respect, I am glad that we also found ourselves able to influence it here from the opposition, because we said in the first place that the government's raising property tax, its having to increase property tax for the third time in a row, is a disproportionate situation and has a great deal to do with both housing costs and regional equality. All in all, the property tax is currently under reform and it would be very unfortunate if the government had once again acted to force 170 municipalities to raise the property tax with the people. Well, when this increase in the lower limit was subsequently withdrawn — well, that is well enough — the question arose as to why this ceiling should be increased, because, for example, during the hearing of the tax section, we were repeatedly made clear that this does not actually help any of the municipalities, but that there is room for manoeuvre upwards, which also raised the question of whether the law is now only regulating the joy of the law or what miracle is at stake when, as it were, a little unnecessary legislation is now being made. Therefore, since this tax structure is going to change in any case, there is no point in raising those ceilings now either. Surely it would have been wise for the government too to see this situation and not to make an unnecessary increase in the ceiling. However, this did not happen and, as a result, we are presenting this proposal as Social Democrats and I am presenting in my speech this bill as a whole to be rejected, President. In addition to this, may I read the contribution I shall make briefly, that is all I would say in this speech, or shall I come to the toilet? [The first Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen :2minutes have been used, the representative may come from the speaking [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u190	Mr President! In order not to be forgotten, I am in favour of Mr Viitane's motion for rejection and I am also in favour of the reasoned, important statement that has been made. Indeed, the government withdrew the increase in the property tax, which was a positive thing. We in the opposition, of course, believe that our pressure had a bearing on it, and the government, in turn, takes credit for giving up the original plan. A similar case was the plan to increase early childhood education fees. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it was only a year ago when the government was going to increase the fees for day care. It was first cancelled and then completely replaced, which means that the coalition is now just as convinced of the need for a reduction as it had previously been forced to increase, and this raises a very serious question about the consistency and organisation of the government's tax policy. The Centre Party and the Coalition Party have often and rightly stressed that corporate taxation should be predictable. This has not been the case with the property tax. The Government announced a steady increase in real estate tax over four years, totalling EUR 100 million. This line was violated last year when it was decided, on fiscal grounds, to increase by EUR 25 million, and now this government proposal would initially have increased by another 50 million. The criteria on which the costs of people and businesses, above all in the capital region, would have been significantly increased were purely fiscal. I consider this to be rather carefree, if not irresponsible. It is good that the responsibility was finally found, then let us say that with help.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u195	Madam President! There were quite a few condiionals in your speech, there would be one and there would be one. Of course, this was the case, as was the case here last week. This is, in a way, a version of last week's debate, and it seems to be quite the same type of sound weight. Within the parliamentary groups of government groups, it was considered that there was no need for an increase in property tax, an increase in the lower limit, and, at the same time, in cooperation with the government, the fact that these performance targets have also been met in this respect, so once and for all there was no fiscal need for this increase. The property tax — the Social Democrats seem to love it — does treat people, property owners, tenants, very much the same in the whole country. And you can also say that in rural areas, for example, it does feel that property taxes are not going to be of any use there, and in this sense too the whole issue must be looked at.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u196	Mr President! This has been a rather squishy policy of yours, and it does not change at all. The best example of this is that the mayor of Helsinki, who is a member of the Assembly, had already drawn up his own budget, relying on the fact that the property tax in Helsinki would have been forced to rise, which would have become a compulsory income of EUR 20 million, and then reduced this general municipal tax rate by 0.5 percentage points, and now, because of their party's efforts and incoherence, they will have to rethink this issue in Helsinki as well. Of course, as I said, the solution was reasonable, although the leading parties in Helsinki and the Greens do not seem to be concerned that housing costs and the costs of entrepreneurship in Helsinki have increased considerably and made the situation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area even more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u197	Madam President! That is what I would have said about this line of action, that the ploying here has been more on the table, because it was only last week, but last week, when the government parties, the coalition at the top of the nose, were very strong in their defence of the need to do this raising of the lower limit and increase the property tax until, fortunately, it was decided to cancel it, and then it was said that a little new assessment of the real estate tax has now come into play. But he hasn't. It was known from the outset that the advance of March is more or less what is now coming to pass, in this early part of October we were informed of it. All in all, the figure for October is still slightly lower than expected in March. So there has been no new information, and I would appeal to the government that, in the future, when you make these foolish proposals, you should look more closely at the overall situation in advance, that there will be no time for the drudgery and the yo-yo movement;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u198	List.— Congressman Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u199	Mr President! First of all, it is good to say that property tax in principle is a good tax in the sense that it applies to property and, in that respect, to ownership and property, can be taxed. However, this government proposal before us is problematic, firstly because this rate of increase in government property tax is incomprehensible. For the third time, we are dealing with an increase in property tax, which will certainly stop us from wondering whether this is a good tax policy which also provides for the predictability of taxation. It has to be said that real estate tax has been used and will certainly continue to be used as part of tax packages, and the financing of government expenditure in general is based both on the past and the future on the fact that real estate tax is not a sacred tax either. In this case, however, it is problematic that when the government itself decided to increase the profit forecast to EUR 100 million by means of real estate tax revenue, that limit has already been blown up. On the other hand, there is also an increase in early childhood education fees, which is why the Government's proposal 133 still, in practice on page 8 of the explanatory memorandum, refers to the fact that this proposal, which is under discussion today, will finance that gap of 25 million in the reduction of early childhood education fees. It can then already be said that, in fact, with the proposal before us, no one will be able to believe that this explanation is true and that the government would compensate for this change for the municipalities which, as a result of the reduction in early childhood education fees, would need money to fulfil the increase in the duties of that government, then, on the real cost side too. After all, the real estate tax works in such a way that in those municipalities which are at the lower borders and would have had to increase this tax in accordance with its proposal, it would in practice have led to such reductions in early childhood education contributions actually being replaced by an increase in the lower limit of the property tax — if it had been made. Well, in this respect it would not have happened for other municipalities. It would therefore have been simpler if the government's proposal to reduce early childhood education fees had been based on the old good principle of reimbursement of the costs incurred by municipalities and, in that respect, compensation would have been made through corporation tax. However, this principle was not upheld by the government. Well, now the problems are getting even bigger. The government's proposal, however, is that these early childhood education fees, i.e. in practice EUR 70 million, should be replaced by this property tax revenue. Thus, the reduction in early childhood education contributions and the latest turnaround in the whole of the government, which fails to raise the threshold for real estate tax, will lead to a situation where the increase in early childhood education contributions is not actually compensated, even though this government's proposal 133 assumes that this is precisely what is being done. In that regard, it is not very credible to say that this is a straightforward and coherent policy. It must also be pointed out in the same context that the second problem of real estate tax is the fact that the tax values of real estate tax have fallen behind in practice. At the end of the last parliamentary term, it was said that the revision of tax values would now be the first job in making real estate taxation such a coherent apparate that we could experience that it is a fair tax. In this regard, it should now be expected that this revision of the tax values will be carried out, and in that respect we should not have gone solo on our own. Mr President! Then to this political situation: we are now dealing with an increase in the property tax, which initially, according to this proposal, would increase the property tax from the upper and lower limits, because if the lower limit were to be raised, then of course the ceiling will also be raised, so that the mobility gap between municipalities will be as high as before. In this case, however, when the lower limit is not raised, the ceiling is only raised from the political necessity that it was not necessary to say that the government had completely withdrawn its proposal for property tax. This logic is simply not working. We have rightly been concerned about whether it makes sense for 170 municipalities to have had to increase the general property tax and 96 municipalities to increase the property tax on permanent residence. This is now overturned by the government, thanks to this good opposition pressure. But the upper limit is still raised. I ask you: how many people in this Chamber believe that the 66 million that this bill, which is before us today, should be produced should be increased? So, once and for all, everyone understands that this is quite a shout into the wind. In this respect, I would recommend that this proposal should lead to the abolition of standards. I therefore also support the proposal for a statement made by Mrs Viitanen and supported by Mrs Harakka in the event that the facts are not forgotten, and I say that the position of the SDP is that it makes sense to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u200	Mr President! There has been a great deal of praise for property tax as a form of tax, but it should also be said to the taxpayer, the taxpayer, it is a good tax — it is predictable, it is stable — but it can be a real problem for the taxpayer. The property does not guarantee the ability to pay taxes. Ownership does not guarantee the ability to pay taxes. That too should be taken into account in this room. Now for this show. The Government's original proposal would have meant an imposition on real estate tax, as has been reported several times, in 170 municipalities, although the fiscal target return for 2018 has already been calculated. But in the State Treasury after an expert consultation, after a thorough examination and after good discussions, the proposal to increase the lower limits of the property tax was abandoned and the lower limits would be maintained today. On behalf of the Swedish Parliamentary Group, I welcome this. We like the fact that we can also change bad proposals in Parliament. Now it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide on a possible increase on the basis of their own situation, and this change now proposed, the basis of the report, only increases the leeway for the municipalities. The Swedish Parliamentary Group supports this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u201	Mr President! The cost of housing is a real national economic problem in Finland. The rise in rents in the last five years has already been more expensive than the level of consumer prices. Similarly, the costs of owner-occupied housing continue to grow sharply. If compared with the first quarter of this year to the first quarter of last year, they are now growing by 1.3 per cent. This increase in housing costs weakens the purchasing power of people in Finland quite unduly. This is a huge economic problem. We all need to know that. It is good that the government did indeed withdraw the proposal to raise the property tax in the way demanded by the opposition. However, we all know that the small person who bills at home is not necessarily interested in whether the property tax was raised by Parliament or by the municipal council. That is probably not the main thing in his economy, who, from the state's lords, raises those costs again, but the main thing is that they should be charged, and it does not seem to be the government's line now, since it is also known that there is a government plan to increase the taxation of heating fuels. The Government's proposal to raise the property tax also shows that the government has such an unfortunate readiness to raise the cost of housing. There's got to be more to do with this. Of course, the rise in housing costs is most likely to hit those on low incomes, especially those on low incomes, who will then, of course, have to pay considerably more for their living than those on a family basis, as well as those on low income pensioners who spend half of their pensions or more on expensive rent. As a result, on behalf of the Group of the Finnish People's Party, I would like to make the following statement: "The government requires that the housing costs of low incomes and elderly people do not increase unduly, taking into account changes in property tax and the cumulative impact of other forthcoming government proposals on the total costs of housing and living."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u202	Mr President! It is interesting to listen to the speeches made by this former government partner party. When the government program was built two and a half years ago, then both the Finns of Finland, the Coalition Party and the Centre Party, as the three parties that won the elections, were building the government. A common economic policy was adopted. It included a broad perspective of EUR 10 billion on reducing, boosting and a great many issues in society, including how debt is gradually to be broken down. The tax guidelines, which then include the property tax guidelines, were also adopted. Now, fortunately, it turned out that this increase in the lower limit of property tax does not need to be made,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u203	Mr President! In every period of time, decisions will be made according to what time it is and I would say that it is quite beneath us to start discussing what the situation was two and a half years ago and what our former President, for example, is committed to doing. We have been going through the situation where the economy is currently in a better position than it was at the time. We will probably not find a solution to pensioners' housing, problems, and rising housing costs by going out there and hitting the Finns, which they talked about two and a half years ago. Today is the book of Lauri Nurme, and there are probably a lot of things to think about too. But, honestly, Mr. Ville Tavio gave a really good speech that people are interested in what is left in hand, and I think that in the future we could focus on how we solve this problem and not start thinking about things like this. At least I haven't sat on those tables. It's 100 percent sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u204	Mr President! I am not going to be a party to this dispute and I am not going to be involved in this squabbling, but I say that this government proposal 133 tells us why this property tax proposal is being brought to Parliament's attention. It clearly states that this money is used to finance reductions in early childhood education contributions, and for this reason this proposal is being brought here, so that, in that respect, Mr Rossi, I would like to correct this angle a little bit now, so that it is not unclear that this proposal on property tax compensates for 25 million reductions in early childhood education contributions. We ask why, in the name of fairness and honesty, it was not a corporation tax that was equalised to municipal finances, but an artificial system of this kind, which then ended up in such a political crisis, as can be seen here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u205	Mr President! Of course, there may be a number of options as to how that compensation could have been made. In any case, the increase in real estate tax was one that was accepted by the government parties in the government programme, regardless of who was sitting there at the table. And the fact that economic growth has begun to improve is also the reason why this tax increase does not need to be made. At least I don't love taxes, unnecessary taxes. Taxes are needed for society, perhaps social democrats love taxes from old memory. In any case, economic growth has led to the absence of any need for this increase in property tax. And this is a good thing. Let's be happy about it. However, the debate goes a little bit in its place as to whether someone did it or not. Good economic growth has played a decisive role in this, in a common perspective of government groups, and thus in negotiations with the government. Here is the end result: the lower limit for real estate tax will not be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u206	Mr President! After all, this is a rather peculiar situation when the Social Democrats are accused of raising the tax even when we are the force that has prevented this tax from being raised here. But there's nothing we can do about this. We don't expect any thanks here. But answer me, Mr Rossi, and Mr Rantakangas, as well, why increase the ceiling when there is absolutely no need for the municipalities to do so. The average level of the general property tax is now 1.06 and you are suggesting that it should rise to 2 or almost double. Level 0.49 — and almost double — of permanent residents and 1.15 of non-residents, all are at the lower limit. Even Siikalatva, a representative from the localities of Rantakangas, reduced the property tax despite the fact that the government has gone in the opposite direction. So where does this need arise for an increase in the ceiling? Why do we really need this? Why can't you break the standards?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u207	Mr President! The city centre and the government have confidence in municipal decision-making. Of course, when and if there is no need to raise the ceiling, municipal decision-makers will not. As a long-term municipal decision-maker, I myself know that a tax increase is always a difficult decision precisely because it increases the cost of residents, whether it is a matter of income tax or property tax or other charges. It is quite clear that I believe that all the decision-makers in the municipalities are leaving the same ideology, that unnecessary tax increases are under no circumstances made. We are now relying on the discretion of the municipalities, on the discretion of the decision-makers of the municipalities, and I believe that this is going to be all right. Of course we understand that whenever the opposition becomes the place of the game and the place of politics, it must be used, it belongs to democracy, and that is exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u209	Mr President! So there is a government proposal to amend the Real Estate Tax Act. This initial government proposal also included an increase in the lower limits of real estate tax rates, from which the statutory lower limit of the property tax rate for permanent residential buildings was to be changed, i.e. in practice from the beginning of 2019 and these other lower limits from the beginning of next year. The increase originally envisaged in the government proposal would have forced up to 170 municipalities, i.e. more than half of Finnish municipalities, to increase their general property tax rate and dozens of municipalities would also have been forced to increase the property tax on permanent residential buildings. All these increases in the lower limits would have increased both rents and the cost of owner-occupied housing; it is worth remembering — not only the consideration, but also the rent. Of course, these legislative changes would also have limited the autonomy of municipalities. Fortunately, the government finally decided, under duress, to withdraw these increases in line with the views already expressed by the opposition in the referral debate. So it seems that this parliamentary plenary hearing was not in any way superfluous with regard to property taxes. Unfortunately, however, the government has put forward a proposal to increase the taxation of heating fuels, among other things. As Mr Tavio has pointed out, all these issues would be most acutely targeted at low-income citizens. As far as housing is concerned, the burden of payment must be reduced by means of taxation, including planning, as we have already done in part this period, but the work is still in progress. On these grounds, I support the proposal made by Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u210	Madam President! Taxation should always be fair, and at least I see two types of taxation in Finnish taxation which no longer represent this principle of fairness. Big changes are taking place in society, and taxation should also respond to these changes a little faster than it should be viewed, perhaps every five years. These two fiscal injustices, in my opinion, are getting bigger and bigger every day. The second is taxation on private cars, because it is freedom of choice for some citizens and it is not really freedom of choice for some. The second tax is this property tax. It is true to me that the tax value is constructed on the basis of building costs and on the basis of age reductions, but I find it difficult to understand that we have areas in Finland where the values of real estate are really low on the market, and then that injustice will be highlighted in those areas where, however, property is taxed on the basis of the value of the property according to the cost of construction, so I think that the issue that has been raised here is one that needs to be raised in the forthcoming real estate tax reform. I do not mean that, here in the capital region, where the values of buildings are of course higher, the tax should go up, but we must bake in, either a new argument on tax values or a mechanism of some kind, that in those areas where market values are clearly falling over the years, there is the possibility of a lighter reassessment of the real tax value of the property. Then justice and fairness will remain in the capital region, where tax values are different and different in form, but especially in areas where people’s property is so-called melted into hands, justice will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u211	Mr President! However, as far as the government programme is concerned, perhaps two and a half years ago, it has been wise beyond what this current government is, when there were still two days before the amendment of this proposal such a lack of clarity as to the need to raise the lower limits of property tax in this Chamber, and now the next day the government will say that there is no need to raise them. In other words, such behaviour by the ministers is also a little embarrassing to the MPs of the government parties. In the opposition, the Social Democrats have given in to a lot of things, but I do not think that the fact that you are inclined to oppose the possibility of an increase in taxes is really sitting in that socialist ideology, because you do not usually want to increase taxes? This is a little confusing right now. The fact that the Social Democrats have also given in to the opposition to demand that the changes required by law be compensated for by the municipalities is exactly the opposite of what you did last time you were in government. This is confusing. But I am particularly surprised at the point that I raised the previous time, that, in the view of the rest of us, the property tax is a bad tax and a bad tax to collect, the Greens did, however, make statements that it would be a good tax to collect. I wonder what your supporters and voters in the provinces will think of these speeches. This is a very cold ride for the cottage ladies and others. Fortunately, however, representatives of Tavio and Savio raised important concerns about the cost of living for Finns, which I hope the government will join.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u212	Madam President! Mr Nylund made a very good speech, a balanced one, and although I am sitting in the opposition, I am delighted to welcome this cancellation of the increase in the property tax ceiling. You can't blame me for that. Although it does not give us any extra points in the opposition, it may be a little praise to the government that it itself sometimes realises when something is going in the wrong direction. This question of justice, the representative of which Eestilä raised the issue, and it is also a very important and interesting issue, and I hope that the forthcoming real estate tax reform will indeed raise the question of how the value of the property will be determined. In my hometown of Espoo, we have many really old, indecent houses, but the property prices in the area are really high because of the country where these houses are, and you may then think that if a person has possibly inherited a house that is already over a hundred years old, how will the person who is now, perhaps even a low income, cope with the property taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u213	Mr President! This steak is what we have been trying to say all along: what is confusing on this side is precisely why we do not want to break standards. So, when the whole government justifies its own policy, that out of vain regulation and out-of-regulation and so forth, then it happens so funny that laws are only passed for the joy of lawmaking. And I would remind you that, on the other hand, it does not surprise me very much, for this government, while the Finns were still sitting there, did, for example, even the garages received an energy certificate and so on. That, yes, many times, such perplexing directions have been in view of what the government is seeking in its speeches. President! All the same, it's a good thing that this obsession was canceled. Revocation is the asset of this government, do it more often. Next, you could really cancel some of the other points that we talked about earlier, in relation to tax justice — that is, this issue of taxation for families with children, for example, which we talked about earlier. But indeed, as I said, President, I hope that in the future — I really hope — when you consider these property taxes again next year, as has been said by the government parties at that meeting in the tax section, you will look in advance at whether there is a need or not, and I hope that you will not come up with such a solution. After all, it was stated here by the government parties that there was still the pressure of 10 million that you had agreed between yourselves that you would later consider what to do with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u214	Mr President! Indeed, I repeat this question, and I am pleased to see that Mrs Rantakangas has taken the floor, and that is where I would really like to see some rational basis for this. Convince me that this is not unnecessary and unnecessary legislation. You have just assured us that you trust that the municipalities can do the right thing. Well, I'm sure they already know how to do the right thing within the current limits. Not one of the more than 300 municipalities in Finland is one where all three types of real estate tax are now in a pin, and most of them, by far the majority, are at the very bottom. So this is unnecessary. The argument that is made now for the sake of certainty of this kind of law and believe that a municipal democracy works, is as good as making here to warm up such a law, that who in the municipality is allowed to build a Glee Club or a golden Eiffel Tower, and then we would trust the municipalities that they will be able to decide whether to build or not. That's why I'm naming this bill Lex Triomphony.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u215	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the government for cancelling the increase in the property tax threshold. After all, the increase in the property tax is most painful for those lonely low-income pensioners, but also for families with children who have already been vaccinated enough by the government. Nor does that property tax take into account the financial situation of the family at that time. If, for example, unemployment has struck or had to go back to training, studying, the money is often quite tight in the autumn when after summer holidays the property tax slip comes from the post office. And the increase in real estate tax also goes directly to rents. Stunning on the part of the government is always welcome from the point of view of the opposition. The Left Alliance is pleased that the government withdrew the increase in this unfair property tax threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u216	Mr President! As the representative of the SDP listened, there was a little picture of you trying to create the impression that there are no lower and upper limits at the moment, that we are talking about additional bureaucracy or anything else. At present, there are these limits. That is how it has been regulated, which is the possibility of its authority of municipal self-government. In this respect, it is certainly not true that there are no borders. Now there are borders and the municipalities act according to them — and so will continue to do according to these limits, which are laid down by Parliament. I think we all agree here that it was a good thing that the government groups agreed that there would be no compulsory increase in the lower limit. That was the right decision, and I am sure the whole House will agree with that. But we all know that tax revenue is needed to finance municipal services, and in that sense all these forms of taxation will have to be used. When we all want our public services to be in good shape, tax revenue is needed, among other things, from wind power, where the Left Alliance did not want to increase the tax, and so on. This is an articulation of opportunities, and in this case it is not a dramatic matter at all. Of course, the opposition has that place in policy making, and you must do so, but, objectively speaking, we could move on to the next paragraph and deal with the more concrete issues that are on the list here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u217	President! We must correct this notion that we do not know what we are dealing with here. We are just wondering whether the government does not understand that this time is absurd, this government proposal 133. This doesn't make any sense. We are raising ceilings here, but the raising of the lower limits was abandoned, as we said a long time ago that this property tax should not have been raised now. And now we are asking — when this reform is introduced to calculate stable payments — whether it will then be financed by real estate tax, when this does not become the profits that this government proposal, however, presents in broad terms. In addition, the problem here is that if this were to be done in the future to provide support for local government finances, then each of us would understand that property tax is a tax that does not apply in the same way to all municipalities, when some have a lower limit different from the other, and someone has already gone far behind the lower limit set by the state. In other words, 170 municipalities would have been covered by the general property tax, not all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u218	Madam President! It is very good to listen to this debate because this Chamber is unanimous in the fact that it is good in the government's proposal that the thresholds for property taxes should not be raised. The government's proposal is precisely that the lower limits for property taxes should not be raised. The fact is that the final decision on real estate taxes will be taken by the municipalities, specifically the municipal councillors, who will play a key role in the level of the property taxes then set. Now that the ceilings are raised, that gives us the opportunity to be at a lower level than those ceilings, and apparently no municipality in Finland is there at the upper borders, and that is a good thing. When there was a referral debate on this matter, we in the centre at least said that the property tax is not trouble-free. There's a problem with that. It also treats property owners in different parts of its own municipality in a slightly different way, and the tax values and ground base of properties are in different situations across the municipality, as well as in different parts of Finland. It would therefore be more important to have a debate now on how to take forward the real estate tax reform in the future, when it is due to come forward and 2020 enters into force. In my opinion, it should also take into account the cost of construction and the age of the building and also the value of the land based on location. It would be important that, through digitalisation, a constantly updated reference price list be drawn up for price areas, on the basis of which those issues can also be viewed. It should also take into account individual characteristics and specifically take into account the value of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u219	Mr President! There is no point in saying that we should move on to the next and more important issues, because you yourself have brought here, Mr Government, such a completely unnecessary and absurd bill, which is left over from this government proposal number 133. So this should have been withdrawn in its entirety, but for some reason it was left behind. Let's go over this again. Where does the need to raise the ceilings arise? Who asked you to do that? What need does this law answer? Nothing. General property tax rate, ceiling now according to the new law: 2.00. Current average: 1.06. In permanent residential buildings, the lower limit is 0.41, the upper limit is 1.00, the average is now 0.49 — almost the lower limit. The same applies to leisure homes. No one needs this law. Pull it out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u220	Madam President! Just to be sure, it is not going to be a mess here: the government's original proposal, which was therefore unnecessary and wrong, was to raise the lower limit, i.e. a forced increase. After all, it is now a matter of Parliament having come to the conclusion, by government groups, that this proposal by Orpo on the compulsory increase in property tax is not going to happen, which is a good thing. This is what has happened. However, I would like to underline this message, which Mrs Harakka said earlier, that it is now extraordinary, not only that such a rumba is made and that it is brought to zero — which is good in itself — and that we end up raising the ceilings — well, it is not good because no one needs it — but then we are going to start blaming the opposition for the fact that we are now talking about prongs. President! As a subject, this is certainly not a continuum. We are talking here about the cost of people's housing, about regional development, about all this, about purchasing power, about the cost of living, and it is only right then that the opposition has had this debate and have rejected this poor proposal by Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u221	Mr President! I drew attention to the fact that Mrs Torniainen actually said that this ceiling itself does not have the municipalities that need this increase, that is how I interpreted it. It's true. It's a fact. This raises the question of what is the point of this proposal? I understand that this is a political compromise, because if the Finnish Government proposed that such a proposal should be brought here to compensate for the fall in early childhood education fees, then of course, when the government has committed itself to such a proposal — which seeks additional profits for the third time by way of property tax — the government parties had to defend this proposal here some time ago. But it was noted in Parliament that this is not quite the case. This led to a situation where government parties in parliamentary work said that Parliament is now changing this tax policy line. This is what really happened: the lower limit was dropped, but the upper limit remained. Now tell us what the point is of leaving the upper limit if no one needs it, as Mrs Torniainen has already said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u222	Mr President! The fact that this increase in the lower limit was abandoned showed that ministers were up-to-date and members of the Finance Committee of the Government parties were up-to-date. They sense this situation that there is no justification for making this decision. Now this next issue, which will be dealt with shortly, again tells us that there has been no up-to-date information in the Ministry, is being carried through a reform which could have been carried out in a different way. But on this point, I am going to score for the ministers and I am going to score for the corresponding groups in the Committee on Finance that a sensible decision was made, that is to say that this forced increase was abandoned. This economic growth, which has left us, thanks to the good decisions of the government, means that the situation in the municipalities will at least be partly facilitated, it will not be easy, but it will be partly facilitated. The better we stimulate economic growth, it means that tax revenue will also become better and unemployment will be reduced and, in all respects, this foundation of a welfare society can be secured. It's about the whole thing. It is a good thing that, on the part of the Christian Democrats and others in particular, there has been some praiseworthy support and recognition for the reassessment, and it is precisely that we are not betoning positions, but are prepared to assess these results on the basis of expert advice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u223	Madam President! As has already been said, it is very good that the lower limits on property taxes are not being raised and Parliament will be able to decide on this. We all agree on that, that is a good thing. Now that there is a government proposal and we have a proposal here in Parliament to raise the ceilings as to whether it is necessary at this stage, I do not think it would be necessary, but it also gives the municipalities room for manoeuvre. If there is no need to raise it to the upper limit in any municipality, then it is a good thing. In my opinion, it is only a good thing that none of the municipalities need to be there at the upper limits of real estate taxes, do not have to make use of that possibility. It is also desirable. When Mr Viitanen pointed out here in his own speech that there is not enough deregulation of standards or the will of the government parties to implement what is said in the government parties about the dismantling of standards, the fact is that the standards have also been substantially dismantled in this period. There are more than 300 standards that have been dismantled, and a large part of them are standards specifically related to construction and planning, which have been dismantled and lightened to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u224	Mr President! So, on my own side, I conclude that we received an honest response in the recent speech from the government parties, that this bill presented is not necessary and that it does not need to be used by the municipalities. This is an adequate answer to the fact that we here are making unnecessary legislation. Let everyone then decide to what extent this will increase Parliament's authority, to what extent this will increase the credibility of the government and to what extent democracy in general will prevail in the eyes of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u225	Mr President! I have yet to think once again about Mrs Torniainen's argument that the lower limits can be abandoned because, given these problems, they should not be raised, but on the same basis it is justified that the upper limits should be supported. I do not quite understand that logic now, because it should be decided whether raising the property tax in this situation is a good thing or a bad thing, and then systematically adheres to it in terms of both the upper and the lower limits. This systematic approach, such predictability, could be required of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u226	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u227	Madam President! We are actually dealing with the government's proposal to amend the law of the courts and certain other laws. The Legal Affairs Committee has argued this in its report, among other things, as follows: "The government proposal proposes a reduction in the number of district courts from 27 to 20. At the same time, some groups would be concentrated on fewer district courts. On the basis of the report it has received, the Committee on Legal Affairs considers it necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained therein, with the following observations and amendments. " First, the background and objectives of the restructuring of district courts. The Board of Directors proposes that the number of district courts be further reduced by seven, with 20 district courts at the beginning of 2019. At the same time, district courts' jurisdictions are extended and the number of establishments reduced. The aim of the restructuring is to ensure the quality of justice and the capacity of the courts in the face of changes in the operating environment of district courts and the tightening of economic conditions. The Legal Committee notes that it is proposed to reduce the number of district courts quite soon after the previous restructuring in 2010. However, the operating environment of district courts has changed relatively quickly since the last reform was carried out. It is clear from the explanatory statement of the proposal that the number of cases to be dealt with by district courts has decreased, in particular when the real estate registration cases have been transferred to the Land Survey. It is expected that these will continue to decrease as a result of the ongoing reforms. Services in district courts have also changed and will continue to change as e-services and videoconferencing increase and develop. This means that it is increasingly necessary for a citizen to conduct business in a district court in person. However, the promotion of e-services and the reform of the case management system of district courts require substantial financial investment, while the financial framework has tightened. Mr President! Having assessed the report as a whole, the Legal Committee has decided that restructuring is necessary to safeguard the operational capacity and the quality of the activities of the district courts. Due to the tightening of the financial framework conditions, it is not possible to maintain and equip the current-wide district court network with modern electronic services and working technology, as well as the necessary security arrangements. At the same time, the issues dealt with by district courts have become more difficult due to the complexity and internationalisation of society, which places demands on the operation of district courts and on the competence of judges. The committee therefore considers that increasing the size of district courts and extending the jurisdiction as proposed by the Government will enable the operation and core competence of district courts to be improved, since smaller units can be more easily equalised in terms of workload, as well as promoting the specialisation of judges and the use of multi-member formations. Such measures can take care of the quality of justice while at the same time contributing to the long-term objective of transferring the focus of the trial to district courts. It is clear from the arguments put forward by the Government that the establishment of a district court network has aimed, among other things, at making district courts more equal in size in terms of the number of personnel, documents and population. In addition, efforts have been made to establish a geographically comprehensive network in such a way that courts and their offices are located in a way that ensures access to justice, taking into account geographical distances and the priorities of the population. In line with this, efforts have been made to locate sites in the localities where they are most in need. At the same time, the aim is to concentrate activities at a single location. The result is a reduction in the need for personal contact, as well as the fact that the Court of Justice from several places of business often poses challenges to the management and staff of the court. In district courts, attention has also been paid to the division of districts, enforcement, prosecution and police circles, as well as to the implementation of linguistic rights. According to the proposal, the geographical coverage of the network is to be ensured by a sufficient number of nationalities and meeting places. They are governed by a decree of the Ministry of Justice under Section 4 of Chapter 2 of the Law of the Court of Justice. Efforts have been made to leave offices other than administrative offices only where there are specific grounds for them, e.g. due to geographical distances. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed that the district court network remains sufficiently comprehensive for Article 21 of the Constitution, and the proposal as a whole does not consider that it jeopardises the right to have its case dealt with by the competent court and not the right to a proper hearing of the case. In the opinion of the Legal Affairs Committee, it is essential that the district court network is assessed as a whole in terms of objectives. For the purposes of assessing geographical coverage, the number of district courts is not only relevant, but also the total number and location of establishments. The committee therefore considers that the network of 36 sites, which has been assessed as a whole, can be considered to be quite comprehensive. There are, however, certain sites which have specific questions in relation to the exercise of linguistic rights or otherwise, and I believe that we will hear more about them during this part-session. The geographical location of district courts and their establishments is relevant to the availability of justice. The fact that district courts and their offices are being reduced inevitably means that some citizens can have a significant increase in their travel to the Court. This can increase travel costs for the parties concerned and create practical difficulties for them. However, the Government’s proposal estimates that the travel costs of the parties and their assistants will not increase so significantly that it would be of decisive importance in assessing the financial impact of the proposal as a whole. Then briefly on linguistic rights. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the need to pay particular attention to linguistic rights and their practical implementation in the reform of the district court network, particularly in the Swedish-speaking regions. The Legal Affairs Committee agrees with the Constitutional Committee. The effective implementation of linguistic rights requires, above all, that bilingual district courts have sufficient skilled staff in both Finnish and Swedish. The Sámi home region will continue to be part of the district court of the District Court of Lapland as a whole in the reform. The office of Sodankylä, which is closest to the Sámi region, will be closed, but there will be a sitting place in Sodankylä, as well as in Inari and Utsjoki, which are located in the Sámi region. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that the abolition of the Sodankylä office may have an impact on the recruitment of skilled staff in Sámi language. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore considers it important to pay particular attention to this practical implementation of the reform, and the impact of the reform will be monitored in this respect. Then the economic effects of their shortness. Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, the proposed restructuring will result in savings of between EUR 3 and EUR 3.5 million in staff and premises costs. The calculation is based on the fact that in the longer term, staff can be reduced by around 30 to 40 person-years compared to the current level. In the case of operating space costs, savings are generated by moving to fewer units and reducing the number of offices and seats. According to a report received by the committee, the calculations have taken into account the need for some localities to concentrate existing facilities or to acquire additional space, which creates costs. On the other hand, the reduction in the network will also reduce the investment pressure required by security arrangements and Aipa equipment by a total of approximately EUR 2 million and the annual operating costs by around EUR 2 million. The above-mentioned savings can only be realised with the implementation of the reform, provided that the district court network and offices are reduced as proposed. As regards the status of staff, it is noted that the staff savings of the reform are based, as indicated above, on the possibility of reducing in the longer term the staff of district courts. According to the report received, the reductions are most severe for the staff. The reform therefore does not mean reducing the number of judges. The Committee considers it very important for the staff that the reduction of staff should be achieved in the manner set out in the proposal, in such a way that there is, as a general rule, no need for dismissals. The reform will entail significant changes for staff whose job will be moved further away in the context of the reform, even tens of kilometres away. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of paying particular attention to the role of staff and to minimising the disadvantages they face in preparing and implementing the reform. It is important that every effort is made to support the staff's ability to stay and work in existing localities. It is also appropriate to invest in the management of district courts. Mr President! Finally, monitoring is recognised as important because the Committee on Legal Affairs notes that the restructuring of district courts is a major change in several respects. This is why the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes the following statement: "The government requires that the restructuring of district courts and the related reform of the procedure for dealing with summary disputes be monitored by the government, paying particular attention to the territorial availability of legal protection, the realisation of linguistic rights, the economic impact and the provision of legal services, and to the Legal Committee by the end of 2022. " By way of exception, this report by the Legal Committee was not unanimous but contains an objection to the rejection proposal, and I believe that we will soon hear a little more about these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u228	Värderade fru talman! Regeringens förslag till tingsrättsreform kommer att minska you enter tingsrätter och sessionsplatser mycket märkbart genom nedläggningar och sammanslagningar. Många finländare kommer att få det betydligt längre till tingsrättskanslier och sessionsplatser. Men reformen slår extra hårt mot de svenska strukturerna och riskerar i kärsta fall att på längre sikt äventyra öjligheten för Svenskspråkiga att få fungerande service, rättsprövning på sitt modersmål. Som en följd av reformen kommer tingsrätten i bland you give Borgå och Raseborg att läggas ned samtidigt som förvaltningspråket för Österbottens tingsrätt kommer att bli finska. Av de nuvarande sessionsplatserna kommer 14 stycken att läggas ner, bland you give de tvåspråkiga Kimitoön, Kyrkslätt, Kristinestad och Jakobstad. Jag vill ärskilt framhålla att statliga omorganiseringar inte får leda till att staten inte kan uppfylla sina språkliga skyldigheter. De föreslaggna nedläggningarna av kanslier och sessionsplatser drabbar många delar av landet, men nedläggningarna på orter med Svenskspråkig befolkning löper risk att i förlängningen förorsaka betydande svårigheter att säkerstalla servicen på svenska i framtiden och på så vis också riskera att äventyra rätsttäkerheten. Tingsrättsreformen kommer också att påverka auskulteringsplatserna. Våra tingsrätter har nämligen en synnerligen viktig utbildnings function genom auskulteringsplatser. Genom functional skersteller man bland you give att det finns Svenskspråkig personal, domare, inom domstalsväsendet aven i framtiden. Det finns ingen give systematisk Svenskspråkig utbildning av domstalspersonal som kan jämföras med detta förfarande, och det är nädvändigt att möjligheten till domstalsauskultering vid tingsrät fortsätningsvis erbjuds med svenska som arbetspråk på tillräckligt antal plaser. Regeringens förslag innebär att annat svenskspråkiga platser skulle minskas från dagens fem till två. Sammanlagt finns i dag 138 auskulteringsplatser i hela landet. Två Svenskspråkiga auskulteringsplatser är inte tillräckligt. Redan dagens fem är ett ganska litet antal. Och jag skulle cereal fråga ministern, om ministern hade variety på plats, hur man från regeringens siida hade tänkt lösa det rai, för samtidigt noterar jag det arbete som lagutskottet har gjort på den rai punkten och väkomnar den ändring man har gjort i 8 § och säger att det är viktigt att man ordnar frågan om auskulteringsplatser också med svenska som språk. Värderade fru talman! Verksamhet ska kunna ses över, liksom effektiviseringar i rättssystemet, så länge de inte påverkar kvaliteten negativt eller riskerar äventyra sättsäkerhetten. Jag konstaterar ändå att propositionnen, som i verkligheten kan betraktas som en nedskärning i stället för en reform, innebär stora risker vad gäller rättsskydd och säkrandet av språkliga rättigheter inte bara i teorin utan också i practiceken. Det har ansetts att tillgången till Svenskspråkig domstalsservice för den komande tiden blir avsevärt mycket sämre framför allt i Nyland, Vilket mycket riktigt också noteras i själva lagpropositionen. Det är mycket bekymmersamt och rai föreslås inga direkta åtgärder. Detta för att enligt justitieministerieets tjänstemannaarbetsgrupps bedömning spa in under 10 million euro per år. Grundlagsutskottet constaterar i sitt utlåtande att förslaget har consekvenser för de språkliga rättigheterna och den Svenskspråkiga domstalsservicen. Det är utan tvekan befogat att henföra rättsskyddets tillgänglighet och kvalitet till den grundlagsenliga rättigheten att i egen sak använda sitt eget språk i domstal. Grundlagsutskottet har också gjort en kritisk observation i att det under beredningen av propositionnen kom fram att de nuvarande tingsrätternas Svenskspråkiga personal inte är wildg att flytta till nya orter. Det förefaller naturligt att detta factum drstiskt försvår öjligheterna att tillgodose de språkliga rättigheterna i practiceken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u229	Madam President! We are dealing with a matter of reducing the district network. The Sipilä Government proposes to reduce the number of district courts from 27 to 20 district courts. The government had no grounds to support its decision other than the savings of EUR 7.5 million. The reduction of district courts leads to an excessive length of travel for many citizens to the nearest district court. This will increase regional inequalities and reduce access to justice-related services. The judicial process in district courts is largely based on the personal presence of the parties concerned. The assumption of a radical increase in remote communication and the use of video connections is completely unrealistic. In terms of access to justice, the accessibility of courts is of great importance. The reduction of district courts has a spill-over effect on the availability of other justice services, based on the experience of previous reforms. Lawyers and law firms tend to work in the local courts. With the abolition of district courts, these services and the related jobs tend to disappear from the locality. Last time the district court network was reduced during the Vanhanen 2 Board of Directors in 2010. In this case, the number of district courts was dropped to nearly half of the previous one. Nor has there been a proper study of the impact of this reform on access to justice and the functioning of the judiciary. The Government should definitely have looked into the effects of the previous change carefully before going back to the path of reduction. Linguistic issues have also been strongly raised in this proposal. District courts, where Swedish is a clear minority language, have been known to face challenges in the realisation of linguistic rights. Already, it is easy to prolong the proceedings for months if the person concerned wishes to have the proceedings in Swedish. During the discussion of the Government proposal, it has been argued that it is easier to recruit people with language skills to larger offices. However, there is no practical evidence of this, as Espoo, for example, currently has problems finding Swedish-speaking staff. Linguistic questions also affect us in the north. Now we're going to have the office of Sodankylä shut down. However, it is the northernmost municipality where the Sámi language is used — in the village of Vuotso — so it would also be particularly important for it to retain the Sámi language. Minister of Justice Häkkänen announced on 6 July 2017 that he would propose the establishment of a judicial office. This is significant information. We need time to figure out 6:10. the impact of the establishment of an informed judicial office on district courts and the district court network. The Government's proposal on the reform of the District Court is also linked to the Government's proposal to concentrate summary litigation on certain district courts. This proposal was promised to us in the Legal Committee on 22 May. I haven't heard from the show yet. Therefore, the joint handling of draft laws has not taken place because the draft law on the centralisation of summary disputes has been delayed and the reform of the district court has nevertheless been taken forward. We need time to determine the impact of the concentration of summary disputes in terms of the district court network and the need for personnel and premises. Savings are also lame in this proposal. The savings estimates of the government's proposal are weakly and uncertainly justified. The calculations do not contain proper estimates of the cost of longer business trips for court staff and interested parties. Staff and customers will be made to pay for this reform. Time is therefore needed to examine the economic impact of the reform, also taking into account the additional costs it entails, which have not now been properly taken into account or assessed in this proposal. That is why, Mr President, I am putting forward a proposal to table for week 45.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u230	Mr President! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, I think we have a good-spirited, informed and factual parliamentary team. We value each other and different views and work together across party boundaries, as must be done. As far as the law of the Court of Justice is concerned, it seemed to me that the points of pain are being answered when we all want to defend linguistic rights, healthy spaces and reasonable distances, and we are all in particular in favour of ensuring that people's legal protection is not compromised, but always maintained in all situations. Unfortunately, this bill is nothing more than a purely ideological law of concentration and savings, which undermines people's legal protection as distances grow and localities become less aware of legal services. That is why I support Mr Ojala-Niemela's motion for a table.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u231	Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, supported by Katja Hänninen, has proposed that the matter be put on the table at one of the plenary sessions of the week 45. So it's on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u232	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 10/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u233	Madam President! Now, this time, we have a government proposal for legislation on alternatives to and organisation of detention, and I will raise a few points here. So this is now a question of adding two new forms of coercion, an enhanced travel ban and an arrest for arrest, to the law on coercive measures. According to the motion, the court could impose, instead of detention or detention of a suspect of a criminal offence, an enhanced travel ban controlled by technical instruments if the travel ban were an inadequate coercive measure and other conditions laid down in the law on coercive measures were met. An enhanced travel ban could be imposed before the defendant is sentenced. After the defendant had been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, the court could, instead of imprisonment or detention, place the sentenced person under controlled detention if the conditions laid down in the law on coercive measures were met and the sentence was less than two years' imprisonment. These two new coercive measures received unanimous support in the Legal Committee because it was considered important that the alternative to detention is also such other means. In addition, this government proposal includes a very important change in the detention of a prisoner of investigation at the police premises. This retention period would be reduced from the current general maximum period of four weeks to seven days. The investigation should not be kept in the police custody room for longer than seven days unless there is an exceptionally heavy reason for the safety or separation of the prisoner of investigation. This is due to the fact that Finland has been visited repeatedly and Finland has also received reproaches and comments. For example, the Committee on Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Treatment or Punishment of the Council of Europe and the UN Committee on the Prevention of Torture have urged Finland to change its practices and legislation as soon as possible. The Parliamentary Ombudsman has also paid attention to the poor condition and incompatibility of police prisons when carrying out checks on several police prisons for the longer period of detention of those who have lost their freedom. A great deal of experts were consulted on this issue, and the main message was that this could complicate the pre-trial investigation of the crime, especially in the area where the distances are long. And in this unanimous report, the committee has tabled various amendments, but the most important and most important amendment relating to the retention of this prisoner of investigation is that the third draft law, which deals with this, specifies Article 1(3) of Chapter 2, so that the exceptionally serious reason for the pre-trial investigation of the offence is added as a basis for the detention of the prisoner of investigation in police premises for more than seven days. This would apply, for example, to situations where a pre-trial investigation would be so incomplete that the transfer of an investigating prisoner to a far-off prison would jeopardise the entire pre-trial investigation. Situations such as organised crime and trafficking in human beings may also be relevant to the application of this provision. This provision could apply to situations involving a wide range of offences involving multiple suspects and a large number of restrictions on communication. Of course, an evaluation would be considered by the Court of Justice. Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs considered it very important to have such a change to this government proposal, and in this respect and in all other respects, this government proposal is entirely unanimous. It may be said that this government proposal should have come decades ago and these shortcomings are already being dealt with then, so that we have, for example, a model which is in Sweden, that is to say, a detention facility under the auspices of the Criminal Sanctions Agency, in the same place where the police prison is. But now this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs is completely unanimous, and I believe that there is no need for any more drama, that is to say voting or putting it on the table. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u234	Madam President! It is easy to agree with that speech by Mr Tolvanen, and we were indeed in agreement. Indeed, for investigative reasons, a significant reduction in the length of time spent in police detention is a rather bad thing for us. As a representative from police background, Mr Tolvanen will probably agree that this is a bad thing, but it is just as the speech described it: however, the situation is that this should have been done a long time ago and the poor condition and detention facilities of police prisons are not quite suitable for longer-term imprisonment, storage. So it is a good thing that the parties here unanimously recognise the right of prisoners to enter human facilities as soon as possible and as soon as the investigation is flexible. We trust the Finnish police that they will conduct their degrees quickly and that the processes will be carried out there in a pre-trial investigation on a model that is compatible with human rights now and that the prisoners will then be able to get to the proper facilities of the prisons in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u235	Madam President! This was indeed a very clear and unanimous report, and we believed that we would have all the things that were important to mention. I would like to raise one more point here, which has been mentioned, but which deserves clear attention, and that is that the Parliamentary Ombudsman has paid particular attention to the condition of prisons. This poor condition of prisons is now emerging in all kinds of proceedings in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and it is high time that the Ministry of Justice had a prison repair programme, a reform programme which would be a measure going beyond parliamentary periods, in which we could clearly see, over a period of 10 to 15 years, how our prisons could be repaired, and then stick to it. This is something that I particularly wanted to raise here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u236	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 17/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u237	Madam President! This proposal clarifies and complements the security inspection regulation in Chapter 2 of the Police Act so that in future the police can carry out more comprehensive security checks at events and events requiring special protection or special supervision. I believe that this bill is more than justifiable. According to the motion, the police officer would have the right to inspect not only for dangerous objects and substances, but also to ensure that the person does not hold items or substances whose possession is otherwise prohibited by law or by law. These include alcoholic beverages and other intoxicating substances prohibited under Article 23(3) of the Convention Act and narcotics illegally held. In addition, the right of a police officer to carry out an inspection at the scene would be supplemented by the right of the police officer to carry out a security check, if the situation so requires, also on the person in the area of organisation. I also believe that this proposal is a well-founded change. According to the proposal, a police officer may, if the situation so requires, also apply a security check to a person in the area of organisation and not only to a person arriving, leaving or in the immediate vicinity of the place of organisation, as is the case today. This is a good reform, although there has been a lot of criticism of the previous law by certain parties. The aim must be to improve the order of events and the security of all of us, and that is what this bill seeks to do. This objective must be supported, particularly in the current security situation. These proposed changes will help to ensure that a police officer has the right to carry out an inspection which is necessary for the order and security of the various events on a regional scale. The administrator and the police have the opportunity to check the participants and the items accompanying them. Both have had somewhat different powers. The proposed regulation, as proposed, is also appropriate for the consistency of the regulation of both competences. The safety inspection shall be carried out by hand feeling or, for example, using a trained dog. It is clear that the inspection shall not interfere with the personal integrity of the person to be checked more than is necessary for the performance of the task and shall respect the discretion required by the circumstances. I therefore attach great importance to the fact that a drug dog can already be actively used at the gate of the festival area, for example. In the same way, the dog sifts the scents of drugs, such as radar in traffic speed control, or the alcometer in traffic, drunk. Mr President! I consider this government proposal to be very good and necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u238	Mr President! Although the government and the Minister of the Interior have been saying to the point of boredom that fear must not be given power, it is good that an inevitable change in the security situation in Finland and Europe has also been found within the government because of this international migration. It's not enough to talk. Better late than not then, the old people would say. It is a good thing that the police are given the opportunity to carry out more comprehensive security inspections at events or events requiring special protection or supervision. This individual change is to be welcomed. However, I would also like these issues to be seen as a wider whole, in addition to and beyond individual changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u239	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u240	Mr President! The Finnish penal system, especially as interpreted by the judiciary, is incomprehensible to many ordinary citizens. It is difficult for a Finnish citizen to understand how a criminal can be a first-time offender many times if he is rarely caught with crimes. That is why any action we, as legislators, can take to ensure that the penalties at least comply with the citizen's sense of justice is advisable. Unfortunately, the judiciary would have a lot of work to do in interpreting the will of our legislators, but we cannot influence that interpretation here. Now the government is proposing a new form of punishment, consisting of unconditional imprisonment and subsequent surveillance. This sentence would be condemned to a repeater of a serious crime, who must be considered particularly dangerous to the life, health or freedom of another person. It is, of course, a good thing that the government notes the need to keep the dangerous offenders away from committing crimes, but we have to ask ourselves what we need new forms of punishment with control time, while at the same time we could keep these dangerous criminals in prison long enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u241	Mr President! The remarks made by Mr Mäkelä about a certain inconsistency in the Finnish penal system are quite significant, and this also has to do with the fact that the general sense of justice of the people commissioned by the government became problematic, precisely because the average person in Finland may not even think that the punishments that are being announced are not being completely planted in prison. So when it comes to absolute imprisonment, it is often not there all the time. In this case, however, this reform is concerned with the most serious crimes in which this whole time and every now and then is completely imprisoned, and this present punishment in absolute captivity is rarely used. It is unfortunate how it has remained that way too, it is not quite possible to say that the law is a dead letter, in such very, very few serious individual cases. In that sense, it is regrettable that this period of control now proposed by the government will be left to the same torso as that imposed in due course for the whole period of imprisonment in prison. However, it is desirable that this should also be possible to carry out post-punishment controls. And here, too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was wondering how this would be compatible with the criminal justice system, and that might have been at the borders, but, fortunately, this is where the majority came up with a good solution to put this into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-24-ps-109.u242	Mr President! This is exactly as Mr Tavio said that one incomprehensible thing is that, in practice, the penalty for a crime can be quite different from the sentence. Often these justify, at least between the lines, the cost of keeping people in prison. However, I do not believe that this is a reasonable or credible argument at all, because society must punish crimes by law. It cannot be used to justify that punishment is too expensive — all the other statutory obligations of society must be found.
