ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 22/2017 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 13 December 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u2	Presentation of Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u3	Madam President! From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration, this is what I'm talking In general, I am going to go over these key issues here. The operating expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration is set at approximately EUR 220 million. Of this, approximately EUR 134 million will be allocated to the cost of a 90-point representation network. The committee notes that a large and well-functioning network of representations is of great importance to Finland. The committee is concerned that the security threats and the costs incurred by the delegations have increased. It is important to closely monitor the need for Finland's presence in the most unsafe places, such as Kabul. The benefit of presence must outweigh the impact of removal. The Committee stresses the importance of ensuring the safety of workers. In addition, it should be assessed whether high-threshold embassies are at the right level of staff maintenance and recovery and rest periods. The committee is already concerned about the ability of the staff of the Foreign Affairs Service and the organisation of work. A so-called second-person has left several embassies, which makes it difficult to organise holidays, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u8	Minister Soini, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u9	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and also the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their thorough examination of the draft budget for 2018. The debate today is extremely important. We live in a very turbulent world. The economy is a key security factor, and only a sustainable national economy and international competitiveness will provide the basis for achieving foreign policy objectives. In this respect, the Government has sought and achieved significant results. Our economy is finally on a growth path. Finland's foreign and security policy aims to strengthen Finland's international position, safeguard our independence and territorial integrity, improve people's safety and well-being. The strong change in our operating environment offers us opportunities but also serious concerns. The international security situation has deteriorated from a European perspective. The speed and unpredictability of changes are characteristic. The need for more effective international cooperation has increased. But as is well known, multi-lateral and rule-based cooperation has faced many new challenges. The European Union is a central framework for Finland's foreign and security policy and also an important security community. Over the past year, the EU's common foreign and security policy has progressed by roosting, especially if compared with previous developments. Finland has been at the forefront of this. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] — But, Mr Arhinmäki, it is good to have things done and not just to yell and stare at the past. There is nothing there but difficulties and failures, and that is, of course, an issue in itself. [ Hustles from the left] Mr President! The EU must also be able to separate the grains from the chaff in other sectors, Mr Arhinmäki. [ Hustles from the left] Unmanaged migration and the threat of terrorism and radicalisation will further increase expectations for international communities, including the European Union. We know from experience that there is room for improvement. With changes in the operating environment, Nordic cooperation between Finland and Sweden in particular and transatlantic cooperation is important for Finland. Mr President! An amount of EUR 219 million is proposed for the operational expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration. The management of our external relations is based on strong expertise and close networks of our personnel, i.e. effective diplomacy. The concerns of the Committee on Finance about the safety and resilience of staff in an area where there is a high level of threat are justified. This is something that I have tried to make improvements in the context of current resources, including through staffing. The Committee on Finance, quite rightly, states that a large and functional network of representations is of great importance to Finland. We place emphasis on resources in those countries whose political and economic importance for Finland is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u10	Mr President! Just before I arrived here, I was pleased to join the World Bank's investment line with IFC Vice-President Nena Stoiljkovic to launch the largest single climate finance investment in Finland in our history — some EUR 114 million from Finland — to create a half billion euro project pipeline over the next five years together with the World Bank, making it possible for Finnish solutions to get a foothold in the door and a little more in the billion projects of the World Bank, enabling the World Bank to find a way to go to the poorest countries, to find a way to go to the most risky projects in the early stages, where we have actually been better than them in the past, for example in Finnfund, which has been more agile than the World Bank in this respect. As far as climate finance is concerned, we actually have a significant increase in climate funding both because of what has just been mentioned and because around two thirds of Finnfund's funding is directed towards climate projects. Over the past year, new decisions have been taken for EUR 200 million. Similarly, through the new interest-rate loan instrument, Public Sector Investment Facility, there are already more than half a billion applications for these projects — a significant part of climate projects, water expertise — and in this respect I would also like to thank the section of the Committee on Finance for the proposal that an additional EUR 400000 be added to the appropriations for the interest-rate subsidy credit. For the coming years, we ourselves will be wondering how we can support these good projects when they are more than actually expected when this new instrument was launched early in the year. Fortunately, with regard to the financing of the actual development cooperation, we now have a period of cutbacks in euro and a time for growth — some EUR 11 million more budget appropriations next year than in the current year, some EUR 40 million more than in 2016. The positive challenge, of course, also the problem, is that GDP seems to grow more and more quickly than forecast, and therefore the share of development cooperation in GDP does not increase but rather appears to fall from one hundredth of a percent of next year. Of course, the government has committed itself to 0.7% in the long term, and it is right that the committee too should stress the importance of this commitment. The emphasis on content is further deepened. Girls and women have long been at the centre of Finland's development cooperation. Now that we have considered the implementation plan for the budgetary period and also for the spending limits period, the aim is to increase the funding of the UNFPA, to increase the proportion of girls and women, to further increase the proportion of sexual and reproductive health and rights. And, as can be seen from the budget book, the proportion of gender equality projects themselves will increase by the decisions already taken next year and will rise even more. As the report states, pressure is being exerted on the share of funding for the poorest countries, i.e. the LDC countries. However, I want to make it right — sometimes a little misleadingly it is said that the share of the poorest countries in our development cooperation will fall next year — that the share of GDP will not increase, because our gross domestic product will rise faster than development cooperation funds, the share of development funds in gross domestic product will not rise, but within development cooperation itself the share of the poorest countries will be put more emphasis, not less, as one sometimes hears misreading. In this respect, the chairman of the section of the committee and also the committee in its report stressed the importance of effectiveness. That is a very welcome message. In fact, we have now drawn up all the priorities of our report into sheets of this kind for each of those who wonder what the results are for each one, what the means are, what kind of euro input per result is. [ The speaker shows the paper in his hand] Indeed, as the Foreign Minister mentioned, there are challenges in the world in terms of promoting exports. Last night I came from Buenos Aires at the WTO Ministerial Conference. Unfortunately, it was not a very hopeful meeting. Even such a thing as the relief from customs duties on e-services was seriously threatened 24 hours ago, so that, for example, Supercell and Rovion Angry Birds and ClashofClans games would become customs and non-customs in some parts. This basic principle, which has so far been quite clear that no tariffs for electronic services, was at risk. Fortunately, it was still overturned in the night negotiations, but there is no progress on new issues. Protectionism does spring from many directions, and in this respect, the fact that Finnish delegations are strong in support of the equal treatment of Finnish companies is perhaps more important than in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u11	All right, let's go to the debat. I'll ask those involved to report to it. — — — — Congressman Vanhanen will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u12	Mr President! The representation network may not be the most popular subject, but I did note Minister Soin's view that the network of representations is no longer being reduced. The Committee on Foreign Affairs in its own opinion even drew attention to the question of ownership of delegations. As a matter of principle, we felt that direct ownership of representations often makes more sense than renting. We have a lot of important delegations, which are Finland's business cards for us, and they should be able to be fixed in the coming years. Secondly, development cooperation. In time, the late President Koivisto said that he had his own limitations on how the country itself, which is in debt and in the current account deficit, can help others, and so it is that sometimes you have to put your own affairs in order to help others. The cuts have now been made, and just as Mr Mykkänen said, a new growth is already beginning. The Committee on Foreign Affairs expects a longer-term programme from the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u13	Mr President! Last week, the UN Resolution on Youth, Peace and Security fulfilled two years, and the ultimate message of that resolution is that peace will not be built in the world without the participation of young people. Finland was the only country that took its official delegation to the EU-Africa Summit with the young, and I thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the Finnish State leadership for this. But it is above all a question of how we can get Africa on its feet, because the future of Africa is also a crucial issue for the future of Europe. The future of Africa will be influenced, among other things, by development cooperation, and I must therefore say that I am saddened by the fact that the government has made such drastic cuts in development cooperation, although now, in euros, those appropriations will be slightly higher next year. My question is this: is the government now prepared to commit itself and make the programme required by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for increasing development aid to 0.7% of GDP, a programme of this kind, which would also seek parliamentary support across party boundaries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u14	Mr President! After all, this budget deals with a very important issue for Finland's exports, i.e. the creation of a Business Finland organisation, which is now being combined with Finpro and Tekes, and then the new thing is that delegations are also being harnessed as an important element in this process in such a way that the Ambassador will lead this export promotion activity in Business Finland. Let me be frank, this is a very challenging question. These organisations have had a very different operating culture so far, and it is very challenging how this can be done. I would also like to draw attention to what the chairman of the committee drew attention to, that this also relates to the issue of real estate, which is that Finland should now buy these properties in which they could all work together. This is a very important question. Besides, these properties are Finland's best investment abroad, because renting is extremely expensive and purchased property
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u15	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing that the development funds have now been slightly increased, but there are quite drastic cuts in the back, and the goal of which Finland has committed itself, 0.7, is running further and further and further away, and it requires an enormous amount of time to achieve it. My question is: Is Finland still committed to this objective, and how will this be achieved? Is it going to be scheduled so that we have a clear road map how to get there? Secondly, it is extremely worrying that the proportion of Finnish aid to the poorest countries, the LDC countries, has decreased. As Mr Mykkänen said, there has been a slight increase in money, but yet the objective that we should contribute 0.2% of gross domestic product to aid these poorest countries has gone further. On the contrary, Finland is the country to which development aid goes most, EUR 118 million, and now it is hoped that these will be the countries of asylum seekers and refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u16	Madam President! Where the federal development of the EU, there Minister Soini signing papers and banging suspenders.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u19	Mr President! In addition to the condition of the delegations, it is good that the Minister drew attention to the safety of those working in the delegations. This year we were able to follow the kidnapping in Afghanistan, which once again shows that we must be awake and secure the conditions of people who serve Finland abroad. In addition, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Finnish Foreign Service, and one of Finland's central themes in foreign policy is girls and women. We should therefore pay attention to the role played by women in civil and military operations and peace negotiations, but I was saddened when I examined the Finnish list of foreign ministers for a hundred years that Finland has only had one female foreign minister. How could this be?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u20	Mr President! With regard to development cooperation, I would now like to see an active grip on the part of the government in the European Union, precisely in order to overcome the fact that, in Africa, as a result of climate change and as a result of the development of inequalities, crises and wars are real, and when population growth is also linked to this, the pressure to seek security and to seek a better life in Europe will grow. Africa's population will double, with half the population under 25 years of age. I would now like to ask both ministers, Mr Soini and Mr Mykkänen: have you been actively pushing for the European Union's development funds, which are billions spent, to be combined so that aid can be coordinated in such a way as to improve the prospects in these countries for young people to get to education and work, and the role of women and girls to be strongly strengthened so that this under-utilised potential for women can be harnessed? So this is a coordinated, united European vision of how to make Africa stronger, so that we do not have to go there for a better life in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u21	Mr President! Finland lives from exports, and a significant part of this now emerging economic growth also comes from the fact that Finnish high-quality products, concepts, know-how are doing well in the world. However, competition is fierce and the fast eats the slow ones, especially in these new growth markets. Business Finland will now be established at the turn of the year, when Finpro and Tekes will get together. It is a very good thing that the Finnish, blue and white export promotion work is given, as it were, sharper teeth. However, it seems that this Business Finland budget is less than the current combined budget of Finpro and Tekes. Should it not be the other way around? And it is also known that Tekes has a very good, strong brand in the world. How can this brand be adhered to, and how can it be nurtured in the event that Tekes merges with Finpro?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u22	Mr President! A representative network is important to help Finnish citizens and, of course, to promote foreign trade. However, one thorn in the flesh in my opinion is the Afghan delegation, because its maintenance costs are extremely high. For example, security and security costs alone are around 2 million per year, and maintenance costs, operating costs, from 1.5 million to 3.9 million per year, have still been on top of this in this decade. However, the Afghan delegation is eating the few funds that could be spent on other countries, and in that sense I do not believe that it is necessary to be present in Afghanistan. That is what we have talked about in the section, but it is for the Foreign Minister himself to decide. This should be considered in the future. But the question itself was, Minister, about visa practices in Finland. However, the issue of visas is a bit tangled, for example in China. Several embassies have said that they are still not getting a visa there in time, and this has been discussed in the section. Could something really be done about this issue of visas being put in order in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u23	Mr President! It is quite clear that sustainable development and the long-term nature of development cooperation require a goal orientation that goes beyond the parliamentary term. This has already been proposed by the Development Policy Commission and we intend to present our specific proposal in our development policy monitoring report in the spring. We are also opening up to the reality of our first priority, women and girls. It's kind of fragmented. The action is good, but we want to know what the whole thing has eaten and whether resource management follows the women and girls priority and how well. How do you, Minister? Mythless, you yourself view this work over the parliamentary term, so that this agenda does not always break every four years, but that common objectives can be achieved much further?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u24	Madam President! This committee's report is well documented, it has been said:'Tax evasion and the transfer of capital through tax havens must be taken very seriously. Finland must also be determined to influence and promote the activities of its partners in line with the objectives set." However, it has emerged that the State Development Fund, Finnfund, has itself recycled EUR 8 million of resources for Asian forest projects through tax havens, including the Cayman Islands, in Indonesia and Malaysia. After attempts have been made, including through Finnwatch, Finnfund has refused to hand over these documents but has appealed to business secrets. Would it not be extremely important, Minister Mykkänen and Minister Soini, that Finland's own development funds do not use tax havens and are not involved in tax evasion and tax withholding?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u25	Mr President! The objectives of Finland's foreign, security and development policy are, as a general rule, well worded and even beautifully written, and they have broad support here in Parliament. But now that we are dealing with money and the budget, we have to see once again how under-resourced the management of these tasks is. It concerns the network of representations, which in reality is still shrinking, because these pressures are what they are. I find it an appalling idea to close a delegation in Kabul in a situation where we are involved in both peace-keeping and broad development cooperation. A completely headless idea when we also need a delegation to Pakistan. Development cooperation is in exactly the same position, with cuts. I would also like to say that the provision of mediation is also important. Fortunately, we no longer speak of Finland as a superpower of peace mediation because it would require superpower resources. But even the resources that we can mobilise would be used to the full.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u26	Before Mr Soin, Mr Toivakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u27	Madam President! I agree that the objectives and content of Finland's development policy are good, but it is unfortunate that we had to make those unfortunate cuts a couple of years ago, and it is good that now the direction is that little can be added to this. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we emphasised the entry that the Government Programme also states that Finland's long-term goal must be to move towards 0.7 and I myself would like to call on the ministers to do what we can to ensure that these steps are actually built towards the future and that Finland reaches a responsible level. The second point concerns investment and trade. We know that our partner countries in developing countries, particularly Africa, need precisely this type of cooperation, even more than traditional development aid in some countries, and it is good that work has been done on this. There are interest subsidy instruments and financial investments and various funds so that Finnish companies can export their own expertise to these countries where they are desperately needed. And for this, I would like to thank Minister Silent for the great work you have done on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u28	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u29	Madam President! Let's start with Congressman Arhinmäki. I support all forms of international cooperation — with NATO, with the EU, Finland — Sweden — and Finland’s defence expenditure in order to ensure that Finland is safe to defend its country in order to combat terrorism. All these organisations and cooperation with them I am unambiguously in favour. Secondly, what Mr Urplainen said, who is the special representative, is very important. Everything he said is true. My morning began today with a meeting with President Halonen, and we talked about these very questions and solutions to them. Finland must be active. Similarly, Mr Haatainen rightly stated the importance of education and the role of women. I went to Egypt: only 9% of women have bank accounts in Egypt, 9%. If we do not make changes to these things worldwide, then we will not get anywhere, radicalisation will get worse and conflicts will get worse. Then we go to this embassy in Afghanistan. The best day of my ministry career was 14. 1 September this year. It was the day when the Finnish woman was brought back alive from the hands of the hijackers, and there, as a great help, indeed necessary, was our embassy in Afghanistan and a good staff who did everything they could and was a great help. The Afghan embassy will not be closed. [Department : Right! Good!] Mr President! Then there's the gun store. Each arms export permit is dealt with separately, and it is clear that if there are changes in circumstances, these will be taken into account and should be taken into account. On visa practices: We had a bad situation with regard to Russian visas, it was dismantled. It is true what Mr Niikko said that there has been traffic in China. The demand for Finland has simply grown enormously. We have several visa processing points.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u30	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u31	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Mikkonen referred here to the increase in the share of refugee expenditure: as such, when we have this real development cooperation, our development cooperation will work, about EUR 550 million, this broader concept will amount to around EUR 890 million, and this figure will increase next year, not the other way round. As far as the calculation of refugee costs is concerned, it must also be pointed out that, in fact, if we were to calculate them in the same way as Sweden, for example, we would have this broad ODA percentage higher, because Sweden is reducing refugee costs more to extensive ODA development than we are doing. Here a number of representatives, at least Urpilainen, Paloniemi and also Toivakka, referred to the importance of the over-Parliamentary plan for development cooperation. I am always prepared to discuss the framework for development cooperation in any forum over the period of the elections. At the same time, I am not going to go populistly to see that we could suddenly promise a rise of hundreds of millions of euros, even if, of course, it would be easy for the Minister for Sectors. However, as long as our country is taking on new debt, this year, next year and 2020, we will have a challenge in what expenditure we can increase in general. In the next government negotiations, whoever is there, this issue will certainly be strongly on the agenda, but it will have to look responsibly at how Finland’s indebtedness can be dealt with, our own problems in the 2020s will be dealt with, while we will, of course, be able to cope with this global challenge to an increasing extent if and when the economic situation in the next few years is at least better. Mr Essayah raised the issue of Finnfund's funding, which was already discussed here in Question Time. As such, this referenced 8 million investment through the Cayman Islands dates back to the 2012 period of Minister Hautala. Today, this type of investment is being made more transparent, only in exceptional cases, and we are now, for next year, not only on the OECD list but also on the EU's recent tax haven, banning the presence of intermediate companies. As such, all development funders are working towards these African countries in such a way that the company is located in a third country, because that legislative environment is just not strong enough to involve outside money. But it is on this WTO trip that I have spoken, for example, with the Norwegian Foreign Minister, who is responsible for development cooperation with them, that we could try to apply for pilots between the Nordic Development Finance Institutions, where we publish these intermediate companies' tax information in full transparency and do this sort of pioneering way. Until now, it has been surprisingly difficult, but I am personally pushing this forward in Finnfund's corporate governance guidelines. Mr Haatainen rightly drew attention to the fragmentation of EU development cooperation. Traditionally, there is still this division between the old colonies in their own ACP fund and the rest of the budget. Hopefully, the Brexis in all their other problems would make it easier for this old division to change and find an effective way to tackle the EU together. I have also called for us in the EU to speak with one voice in the UN. We would clearly be the largest player in almost all UN member organisations. Now we often give the United States the biggest voice, even though together we are much bigger financiers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u32	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u33	Madam President! I think it is good and healthy to hear that Minister Soini is also aware of the advantages of the European Union. It is a good thing that the position is changing and precisely in the right direction. However, with regard to the development of the European Union, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministers to the report of the Audit Committee, which proposes that we clarify the need for change by means of a legislative amendment which would make it possible for the whole Parliament to decide on the new ESM financial support programmes, provided that the ESM remains in its current form and the Member States' positions in the decision-making process. This is the opinion of the Audit Committee. I think it would be appropriate for these Greek aid packages and others to be discussed here as well, by all the representatives, and to have an open and public debate in that way. Especially when this government was put in that position and acted that at the beginning of this reign it was done:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u34	Mr President! Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about crisis management. I'll take that up with a couple of thoughts. We are not a superpower in it, as the representative of the Court of Justice has said, but we do have good knowledge and good quality, a rather fine history, and what works is that we look at the whole question of how to solve the crisis. After all, here in Finland, we always reflect on the benefits of our national defence capabilities when we participate in crisis management operations. The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the effectiveness and states that the assessment has been rather superficial. After all, every six months we receive a kriha report, a crisis management review, which shows how things have gone, how things have been affected. This report proposes that, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, a goal line be drawn up for crisis management, which would look at both effectiveness and resources together. How does the Secretary of State view this idea?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u35	Mr President! To the SDP and the Greens I would say that if money alone were to solve these development problems, they would certainly have been solved by now, because money alone is not enough, but it also means quality. In fact, I notice from the sustainable development programmes in Finland and elsewhere that demographic change has been excluded from the debate. This is crucial because, for example, Africa is forecast to have a four-fold population increase over the coming decades. I feel that after that it will be no matter what we do if the earth’s population explodes. We are no longer talking about prevention and demography; we are talking about resource adequacy and guaranteeing it. I think we should have a good talk about it now. Mr Viitanen raised the issue of the European Union, and here I myself have tried to find where we are talking about the EU, where there is no European minister in any section of the House and where we should be talking about Emus. I do not know, but this is not an internal policy. This would have been foreign policy, so the European Minister would have been good
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u36	Mr President! It is quite true that there should be more talk about EU issues, particularly the Greek Third Package and who were all in favour of it, whether the Finns of Peru were of the opinion that it was only in spite of previous speeches. Nor has it escaped notice that Minister Soin, like the Blues or the Finns of Peru, no longer has any EU criticism when it comes to weapons and gun faith. But from Afghanistan: Is it then an endless road, an endless path to go? Finland has already invested more than EUR 800 million. There is no end or improvement in sight. Or is it, on the contrary, that Finland has promised the United States, for example, of further efforts and additional soldiers in that region?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u37	Mr President! I can only say to Mrs Viitan that there are positive aspects to most of this, both in the European Union and in the social democrats. The great thing is that the Committee on Finance added EUR 150,000 to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative sector in the fight against radicalism and terrorism. This is in line with the blue line, and I believe that is how the Foreign Minister sees it. Mr Foreign Minister, you started a tour of schools in November, which focuses on the prevention of radicalism. I would like to hear the experience so far of these discussions with Finnish youth. EUR 58 million is spent on crisis management expenditure, an increase of more than EUR 7 million last year, in particular on the Lebanese mission. I would also like to hear a view on how you assessed the Lebanese mission, the security situation in the country, and also the situation in Iraq, insofar as Iraq announced that the Isis terrorist organisation has now been virtually wiped out of Iraq. How do you see the situation in Iraq from the perspective of Finland in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u38	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen spoke about the increase in climate funding in this budget. That is in itself a good thing. On the other hand, it is worth bearing in mind the bigger picture that this government decided to change the previous government's line in relation to the fact that the revenues from the auctioning of emissions trading are largely allocated to development cooperation and climate finance. At the extraordinary climate summit in Paris a few days ago, the World Bank welcomed the announcement that it would end funding for gas and oil projects. In a way, the whole world, including Finland, both in international politics and internally, has done two opposite things: on the one hand, supporting fossil investments, on the other hand, doing climate work. How Finland works in others
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u39	Mr President! In fact, I would first of all like to thank Foreign Minister Soini for the excellent participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the 100 gender equality projects. However, I am concerned about the content of foreign policy and development cooperation, although, of course, the amount of money in development cooperation is indeed crucial. I am concerned about how equality, Agenda 2030 and human rights will be realised in our foreign policy, as the money allocated to the poorest countries, but also other resources, will be reduced. Today, too, it has been pointed out many times that the focus of foreign policy is such a thought of perhaps a shorter term of own economic gain rather than a long-term foreign policy. When it comes to managing the root causes of migration, it should be a policy of poverty eradication, peace building, democracy and human rights, and it must also be done where we do not have direct economic benefits. Is the Government Willful?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u40	Madam President! A recent study by MTS reported that Finns will have strong support and also praise for the management of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u43	Madam President! In his presentation, the Foreign Minister raised the issue of the closest partners, and of course Sweden as a dear neighbour is one of them. However, Sweden has not been very active in Arctic issues, unlike Finland, and as a member of the EU, Finland would certainly have a leading role to play in this too. On the other hand, Sweden is a driving force in Nordic cooperation, as is Finland, but it would also be important to take account of these established forms of cooperation for the business economy and for the business sector. I would have asked the Minister for Foreign Trade, for example, if you were thinking of border advice, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budgeted nothing to me, unlike the other Nordic countries: how do you think about this in the future when the Nordic Council of Ministers runs out of funding and when border advice is critical for our Nordic trade?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u44	Mr President! Finnish diplomatic expertise has long been known in the world, and we continue to train good diplomats. But my concern is whether our international diplomatic training, the so-called Kavaku course, will actually create diplomats at the moment that the world needs because the environment is changing and the standards are changing. So I ask you: do you have any idea how the Kavaku training should be developed, so that we will continue to have diplomas that meet the standards? My second question concerns Russia and Central Asia. You are now reforming Business Finland, but in the same way we have also had difficulty getting Russian-speaking diplomats even to the Moscow Embassy. The Central Asia Group is active in Parliament. We are now going to Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in January. I would have asked you: how do you see the situation in Russia as a whole in terms of trade policy, when trade in Russia has finally picked up?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u45	Mr President! The world's combined development effort in 2016 amounted to EUR 129 billion, and in this millennium, when inflation and exchange rates are taken into account, it has doubled. At the same time, Finland’s growth in development cooperation in euros has been even more severe. During 1990-2016, Finland has paid almost EUR 20 billion for development aid, i.e. Finland alone. At the same time, however, the number of refugees has increased in the world. It is a good thing, therefore, that, during this term of government, development cooperation funds have not been greatly increased, but have fallen. And now, if many hope that they will be increased, would it not be a good model in the alternative budget for the Finns, where there would be a state aid fund, where there would be a base money, and then the citizens and businesses themselves could donate to it what they want, and then increase this amount, which will help?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u46	Mr President! Although the economy is now growing, the development budget that has suffered as a result of the huge cuts in development cooperation is not growing in proportion. It needs to be raised, and it needs a long-term plan. The cuts were particularly significant in the development cooperation carried out by NGOs, and now the new threat is the government's plans to dismantle the NGO's support for communication and global education. It is transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the National Board of Education, after which organisations can no longer apply for it but only schools. Indeed, many organizations are forced to stop their education and influence work. The plan threatens to reduce the target population of global education only to schoolchildren and to reduce the opportunities for organisations to operate. From the point of view of the Parliament, there is no budgetary justification for the transfer, so why is it planned to do so, why is it intended to move the aid away? I would also like to thank the Prime Minister at the AU-EU meeting for making a strong point on the issues of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Thank you to the entire government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u47	Madam President! Mr Sarkkinen took my question, but fortunately I have two questions. So I would like to ask you that Finland is about to begin the Presidency of the Council of Europe next year and in foreign policy, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one of the key sectors has been the strengthening of the rights of girls and women. This debate also takes place in human rights organisations and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how do you see what kind of points Finland should take in this Presidency of the Council of Europe? Is there anything we could do to promote the rights of women and girls, for example, in an even more diverse way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u48	And before the ministers, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u49	Madam President! It is important to discuss development cooperation and the use of our resources. Finland is one of the most important partners of the Palestinian Authority in the education sector. The Palestinian Authority has published a new curriculum. This curriculum encourages jihad, martyrdom is taught to boys and girls as the goal of life. The boys are promised a reward in heaven, where the martyrs receive 72 wives — you heard correctly. 69% of Finland’s EUR 22 million support for the 2016–19 period goes to the education sector. The Finnish Government would be able to demand that Finnish support be conditional on the removal of material from the curriculum and educational material that encourages children to violence, to die as martyrs and to destroy their neighbours. Several donor countries have frozen their aid,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u50	Minister Soin's turn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u51	Mr President! Let's start with radicalization and the fight against it. It is extremely important, and this school tour, to which Mr Elo referred, I have started from Tikkurila, Northern Tapiola I have visited, next week I will go to Maunula. Demand is practically unlimited. When it became clear that this was the case, you could go all over Finland every day. This is an extremely important matter for us to tell our young people that extreme thinking, contempt, killing and planning of other people is not right and must be combated. There is no decision on the ESM here, but I read the speech by Socialist President Schulz in which he said it was a federal state or out of the EU. I wonder if this is a constructive European line, or what? Then, Mr President, the country of Afghanistan. The question is that if Afghanistan gets into a crisis, it will fall apart in the way it has now, for example, been in Syria and Iraq, all of it on our borders. There's no other way to do nothing and everything's gonna be okay. I am not a supporter of such an option. I believe that Finland also bears responsibility there. So is Iraq. If Isil is now militarily defeated, winning peace requires a functioning and reliable police force, such as to make that society work. This is the only way, for example, to return and return to the country of origin. All the rest of this stuff about being able to leave things drifting and not taking part in anything and doing nothing is completely irresponsible talk. That is something I do not think should be favoured anywhere. Then there's Arctic cooperation. Black coal — very important. During the Finnish Presidency, Russia was involved in the work of the Black Coal Task Force, and this is very important. I raised this issue with Mr Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Vienna last week. Mr Parviainen asked about the Council of Europe. I just met Thorbjørn Jagland in Strasbourg. Women and young people are one good priority; another good priority is the rule-based international cooperation. It is the protection of small countries. Otherwise, the big countries will do what they want. We certainly do not want that. Then Kavaku class. This is an important issue. This, too, is what we in the ministerial leadership spoke about at the Foreign Office that when the world changes, the criteria must also be examined. In fact, we have very good new recruits in Russian, which means they will not be caught. If someone does not go to Moscow or, for some other reason, apply, it is not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because of a lack of language skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u52	Next up, Minister Mykkänen. After him, let's move on to the list of speakers and see if the speeches make a new debut. — Silent, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u53	Mr President! Representative Hassi drew attention to the level of climate finance, and it really is that this year and from now on we will be at the previous peak year level in 2014-2015 without even counting the loan-based funding, i.e. only through equity investments that normally fall into this ODA side. It is very possible, depending on the periodicity of the IFC Climate Fund, which was launched today, that 2019 will also give us the top level of all-time climate funding for the recorded value of Finland's climate finance. You also paid great attention to the exclusion of the World Bank's gas, oil and coal energy, and yes we are driving in all these development finance communities where we are involved that we are not funding fossil energy. In Finnfund, too, we have tightened this line even more. Nor does Finnfund fund peat energy projects, for example, without taking a stand on the order in which we should abandon them, but it is not the kind of energy that we would invest in future solutions in developing countries in particular. On the other hand, the representative, Mr Biaudet, drew attention to the question of whether these investment-based funds are, as it were, short-range cases, whether we should look ahead. On the other hand, I would also point out that, although a month ago, when I was in Nigeria, we were able to finalise the agreement on the largest solar power plant in Africa. A couple of million people get zero-emission electricity through it. In Kenya, the Turkana wind farm, funded by Finnfund, will increase electricity generation by one fifth, which in practice will replace the use of fuel oil when, in any case, the need for energy is multiplied. These are also issues that are currently bottlenecks, which do not create such a positive spiral of manufacturing and middle-classisation in Africa, which, for example, has been a crucial factor in South and East Asia for countries such as Vietnam or, in the past, South Korea, which also have a very bloody and difficult history, to find themselves in a very different situation than, unfortunately, the majority of African countries are currently in. Representative Meri referred to population growth as not being dealt with in our programmes. For example, for us, the fact that we are increasingly emphasising UNFPA in the UN as the largest recipient of our regional cooperation projects and of our core funding also has a strong bearing not only on the fact that, of course, each of us in the world must have the right to regulate and control our own sexuality and reproduction, of course it also has an impact on how people, as it were, get the population growth in their own families and, at the same time, the country as a whole. For example, in Nigeria a month ago, I visited a reproductive health clinic, which we have funded through UNFPA and which is doing the very work of using contraceptives, there would also be sterilisation opportunities that are widely available there as volunteers and so on. So, yes, of course, we are here. Representative Skinner referred to the Russian trade. The day before yesterday, I discussed with the Russian Minister for Economic Affairs, for example, this import restriction on birch trees that the Russian Government is planning. Hope was increased by the attitude that they understood that they should not lose a couple hundred million euros per year in timber sales. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u54	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u55	Mr President! The changed operating environment brings both risks and opportunities to Finland. Demographic development, migration, protectionism and climate change are putting us under great pressure and we need to be able to respond to them. Society is polarising, terrorism and conflict have also come close to Europe, right down to our home country. Our challenges are increasingly global. We must therefore work more closely with other countries. It is great that the Committee on Finance increased funding for information activities on radicalisation and terrorism during its deliberations. This is an important contribution that will enable us to respond to the challenges of the changed operating environment. We must do everything we can to prevent the radicalisation of people and, at worst, the drift into a terrorist group. Mr President! During this term of government, the budget for development cooperation has been used on several occasions and for quite understandable reasons. It is great that the actual development cooperation allocation presented for 2018 will rise by EUR 11.1 million. We still have enough to do to achieve the UN target of 0.7% of the country's gross domestic product for development cooperation. We need a determined plan of measures that will finally bring us towards this goal. However, as Mr Mykkänen said, the debate is important, but it is the same as in the economy in general: only by getting our own economy in order will we be able to help more others in the future. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that more is done with less. This will require a continuous reform of policies. During this period, Finland’s development cooperation has adopted important guidelines on priorities. With very limited funding for our development cooperation, it is important that the objectives and results of the projects are measured. Under the leadership of Minister Mykkänen, Finland has done very significant work and also new investments to compensate for the funding gap left by the United States. It is important that our development cooperation is aimed specifically at addressing the root causes of poverty and migration. One of these is to improve the position of the world’s girls in particular. Only by affecting better living conditions in Africa and the Middle East will we be able to influence the effectiveness of development cooperation. Schooling and the acquisition of a profession are just as much rights for girls as for boys. Our development policy must contribute to the fact that reality is in line with this state of ambition. Finland has been a pioneer in the work to strengthen equality, and this must continue to be the case in the future. Mr President! Finland will continue to be a country that knows and assumes its responsibilities in the global burden-sharing process. In addition to the significant financial resources that remain, Finland’s range of instruments includes active engagement and dialogue at the level of partner organisations in developing countries as well as international rules of play. It is also great that, in addition to development cooperation, the budget now proposes EUR 130 million for financial investments and loan instruments and that these funds will be used to a significant extent to finance climate action in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. In this way, Finland can contribute to the mitigation of climate change outside our own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u56	Madam President! In some ways, this state of affairs is sad. This is the sort of flight away from international responsibility. We do not stand together with the Nordic countries in our own objectives and actively strive to raise our development aid to the level that we ourselves have defined and considered to be part of this international responsibility. So this is also, as it were, your own goals of walking over. I shall now focus on three clear points. Firstly, this KPT objective, which has already been mentioned here, which goes beyond the parliamentary term, is absolutely essential for our credibility in development cooperation to return to what it was before this government. Secondly, I am raising the poor financial situation in the delegations and, at the same time, the growing employment situation. When Team Finland was founded, it meant in many embassies that the workload of the ambassador and the person in charge of him increased. At the same time, staff were reduced in many embassies. It meant in practice that Team Finland was like a new file on the ambassador's bookshelf. Now Business Finland and other goals are continuing at a time when the situation of the delegations is deteriorating and more tasks are coming for them, and in the case of the delegations, according to the various reports we have received, fatigue, frustration, motivation for work, everyone is part of the everyday internal debate there. Many good people are thinking about a completely new job for themselves, and I wonder that the State Department, which is well aware of this situation, is not going to address this issue. We have representations with such a small occupation that when one person falls ill, a person is flown from Finland to work for three days. I see no significant advantage in pulling these resources so tight. I am aware that both ministers here know the situation because they were in the days of the ambassadors to hear these same reports. Thirdly, I am raising the issue of citizens' development cooperation. We are increasing funds here by over 11 million, but not a single cent to NGOs. However, it is quite clear here that 'the evaluation of the graduates, for example through the development cooperation programmes in the field of organisation, has produced a wide range of results and that the development cooperation carried out through them is considered appropriate'. All of us Members of Parliament know how huge the work of Finnish non-governmental organisations in development cooperation, but this budget does not show it: not one cent, the same 65 million as last year. It would have been better, even as some kind of moral, mental encouragement, to put 5 euros more in here than not to put anything in. He's cheering, but he's not doing anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Espo, from the same city, I consider this to be a truly unimaginable and sad message to our NGOs. In other words, the state of the embassies, the state of the NGOs — in two categories we fall short of our objectives. We have set a 0.7% target for development cooperation, and we will remain voluntarily. We do not even live up to the promise made by the ministers here in the last round in the same situation that this 0.39 would be maintained. It's not going to last, it's going to work out. And then there is this support from the poorest countries, 0.20, which also leaves us at 0.16. This isn't just a party talk anymore. Now, ladies and gentlemen, nothing but conscience in the game, and at least promise me that in the draft amending budget you will correct this situation, and I may eat one cookie with a smile this Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u57	Madam President! A great deal of valuable work has recently been done to strengthen Finland's security, first of all that we have strengthened our position internationally. Let me take an example: the Prime Minister is in Brussels today, where the future of permanent structured cooperation in the European Union will be decided definitively. This, of course, does not mean that this is a military alliance, but simply means that there is such a strong desire to ensure security through the EU. I would like to take an example of what I think was most important: the fact that: Over the last few months, Finland managed to get this clausul 42.7 into the PRY, which means solidarity on security policy issues. As I said earlier, this does not mean that this is crucial militaryly important, but it means that there is a certain commitment to solidarity in order to promote security. This is very important. Similarly, these bilateral relations and agreements with different countries are very important, cooperation with Britain, the United States and Sweden has been developed. These are extremely important developments that have taken place recently. The United States is a little bit problematic at the moment. The United States has lost its position in the world, as a world political player, especially in the Middle East, where the Arab League, among other things, declared that the United States can no longer act as an independent mediator on this issue of Jerusalem and Israel, Arab, Palestinian. This vacuum has now begun to fill Russia's President Putin, and it is now a question of how the European Union too could start filling this void and begin to implement the common foreign policy on which so much has been said. This is a major challenge for the European Union at the moment to make a stronger contribution to international crises. It has long been expected, and now there is a gap that is possible for the European Union to operate. The problem here is, of course, that the European Union is currently in a certain state of confusion and weakness due, among other things, to the Brexit operation and also to the fact that within the EU, Poland, Hungary and the The Czech Republic is operating a little of its own policy, which does not quite fit in with this common set of objectives. My own view is that, for Poland and Hungary and the Czech Republic, tougher medicines should be introduced, and it is generally the case that money is the best consultant. The European Union could tighten up some of this money for them so that they gradually return to line and cooperate with others. There has been a lot of discussion here about development cooperation. I understand that in the recent economic situation in Finland it has not been possible to raise development funds. Now, however, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed that this should be corrected and gradually increased development cooperation funds. This degree could mean, for example, starting from now on, that the percentage of GDP will never fall again. Let's not say how much it needs to grow, but at least it can't get smaller.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u60	Madam President! In that speech by Minister Salolainen, there was a long experience and a strong vision of these big issues which are included in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administration and what should be done. These ideas on how, for example, we could move forward with development funds are quite good and worthy of support. I myself have been allowed to work in the Committee on Finance and also to be a member of the administrative and security section under which these matters fall, where our work has been led by the chairman of the committee, Mr Niikko, and under his leadership we have been working resolutely and going through that budget book with a few additions which I believe deserve attention, among other things, to this additional effort in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism. It is important that we look specifically for ways of dealing with this type of situation in advance, and this will hopefully work, as well as this EUR 400000 increase in the interest subsidy instrument, for the PIF investment aid, thus promoting the export of Finnish companies to public sector projects in developing countries. In this debate, as in the committee and section, there has been a great deal of involvement in our network of delegations, which, fortunately, has now reached the point where these reductions are no longer in sight, and, on the other hand, new delegations have been opened, for example, in Bogotá. This functional, comprehensive, extensive network of representations will be important for our country in the future. What is also positive is this new strengthening of the role of delegations, to which Minister Salolainen, in his own speech on the subject, referred, and which was all too little noticed during the debate, is that the role of delegations is now being increased in this promotion of exports. This is an important change in the way we operate and hopefully will continue to be seen. One of the things that we raised in the section was this removal of the matter of reserve for crisis management operations. It has been removed and, of course, it means that in a solution of this kind we would then be dependent on an amending budget procedure and that would not necessarily happen very quickly. In other words, this kind of rapid reaction will be eliminated by this, and this was one of the observations that was raised and brought to the attention of the section chaired by Niko in our report in the Committee on Finance. There has also been a debate today on the change in the operating environment, and that is not what I am going to go beyond. At the end of the day, I would like to mention this development cooperation money, with which I also started: it will rise by EUR 11.1 million next year. This is, of course, the right direction, but it is totally inadequate when the target is 0.7% of GDP, which is still very far from it. In that sense, the idea raised by Minister Salolainen that we should at least no longer allow that percentage to decrease is a good one and a good one. But let’s keep that goal eventually where we put it together. The money from the organisations was also widely displayed in the section debate, and I believe that our section representative Pauli Mr Kiuru will be discussing this issue more broadly in his own speech, so I will leave it to less attention in my own speech. Mr President! In that debate, I myself raised the question of the authorisation of arms exports, and I welcome the fact that we have now been determined to take action to ensure that we are representatives of a policy similar to that of other EU countries. We have long been in a situation where Finland itself has been harassing our industry with a stricter arms export policy than other countries, and it is good that the EU is acting in a united manner here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u61	Mr President! It has to be said itself that it has been a pleasure to hear us from experienced foreign and security policy experts. We can be proud that at the heart of Finland’s development policy is the role and rights of girls and women. Mr Mykkänen has already pointed out that we have taken account of these sexual health and justice issues and Finland supports the fact that the right of more women and girls to make decisions about themselves is being realised and the violence and exploitation against them is being reduced. Mr President! 2015 A strong asylum crisis, migration, also hit Europe and, as a result, even the larger public began to reflect and understand the reasons for driving people out of their own countries. We need stability, a reliable judicial system, including the police, and development in these countries, a development that guarantees people a secure and life-saving society. I am still referring to Mr Mykkänen, who said that we must have the courage to be where there are risks. And then I turn to comprehensive crisis management, which Mr Soini stressed. So we also need development cooperation, civilian crisis management — Finnfund is doing important work — and these have synergies that must be exploited. Mr President! Now to this resource side. Indeed, the Government will respond to the change in this operating environment by proposing EUR 150,000 for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ administrative sector in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism, and this will come on top of migration communications. In addition, EUR 400000 is proposed for the interest subsidy instrument Public Sector Investment Facility, which promotes the export of Finnish companies to public sector projects in developing countries. It has come up here — and it is just a cold fact — that the needs and objectives that are out there and what we could do are not equal to the resources that we have available. Mr Mykkänen has well explained and explained what the situation is: yes, we now have to be in good shape for our own state finances, so that we can also help other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u62	Mr President! Tomorrow President Macron will convene a climate change conference two years after the Paris climate conference. After all, Finland was active there when Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen was one of the main negotiators and did excellent work there. The last data on climate change are worrying, and you can see from the window of the cabin that it is moving forward and perhaps here in Finland a little faster than elsewhere. Now Minister Mykkänen here said that Finland will respond to its call at the Paris climate conference by setting up a common climate fund with the World Bank to prevent climate change. Of course, we have our own interests. We have a business that can help us do this. I am sure that in Finland, too, we need to influence EU policy in such a way that its food strategy, for example, really needs to be looked at in such a way that we can, for example, respond to the challenges of food production in Finland and so on. The United States, under President Trump, has taken steps backwards, and that is of course what worries us. However, even to that meeting tomorrow, the California leadership and Schwarzenegger will always show that there will be participants, so that local action will also be important, as it is worldwide. That's good. In fact, I would like to ask whether Finland could take an even more active role in this fight against climate change in the EU and globally, as we are now on a good path to the problem and have the ability to respond to these policy challenges and the credits have come to the Paris climate conference.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u63	Madam President! We have discussed this in good cooperation within the Committee on Finance's Administrative and Security Section, and I would like to thank Minister Silk and Minister Soini for their visits to the section and for all the information we have received on request. Mr Heinonen said that I will continue with these contributions from the organisations, and I will do so. Here, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative sector, 1300000 have been earmarked to assist organisations related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' activities, and this assistance must be linked to Finland's foreign and security policy policies, international commitments and conflict prevention, mediation, and human rights, democracy and policies in this direction. Some time ago, these grants from organisations moved from such a closed practice to an open, separate search, which was a welcome change for Finnish society. Transparency will increase, transparency will increase, equality between organisations and open comparison of performance. Support will be provided if the activities correspond to the policies to which Finland has committed itself. In other words, there should not be such a permanent vending machine, but it should be able to justify that money is used effectively. At the section, we drew attention to this issue, and here we unanimously added the following phrase to the final lines of the report on the administrative sector: "The Committee also stresses the importance of the organisations receiving assistance to respect the rule of law in their activities. The allocation of appropriations should also take into account current themes such as Euro-Atlantic cooperation and mediation." Well, what could this mean and mean in Finnish? This means, for example, the valuable work done by CMI and, for example, the Atlantic Society. Then a few words about Finnfundi, which has been ignored here. Finnfund is doing valuable work and, as Minister Mykkänen said, Finnfund also employs women. It is also an extremely important issue in this respect. In cases where Finnfund is involved, about 36 per cent of the employed are women. It is good and it adds to the criterion, which is why it is worthwhile supporting such permanent outcomes. Finnfund has been on the agenda in these tax havens and, as Mr Mykkänen said, special attention will be paid to this. What has happened in 2012, the aim will be to move in a more transparent direction and to ensure that there are no such tax havens. It is not always up to Finland or Finnfund, but others involved in these projects may require their own views on how money should go. But this is our position that, as openly as possible and avoiding tax havens, they should not be used. Population growth has been mentioned a few times. This is important in many respects: climate work, from the point of view of the role of children, women, girls. The fact is that in Africa, for example, the population grows net each day by 90,000 people. The world’s population is growing every day by over 200,000 people. This growth is quite absurd, and no support, no development can, as it were, undo it. This is one of the root reasons on which we must make every effort to ensure that corrective action is taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u64	Madam President! Strengthening the rights and status of women and girls is one of the priorities of Finland's development policy, and that is a good thing. The education of girls and women has long been known to be the key to promoting well-being, combating poverty and also to curb the population growth that has been so much talked about today. Women's participation in peace processes and in social decision-making, on the other hand, is a prerequisite for lasting peace and stability. The Finnish education system and teacher training are world-class. Finland can support education activities in developing countries and their strengthening by using our education skills also in development cooperation. The focus of Finland’s development cooperation must therefore be increasingly on education and the export of Finnish education expertise to developing countries, especially in order to protect girls. At the same time, it can indirectly benefit our commercial exports of education and our reputation as a country of education. I would like to ask the Minister's view on how to make Finnish education skills and our teaching professionals a stronger part of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u65	Madam President! For my part, too, I express my concern and the alternative budget for the SDP expresses its concern about the situation in the development funds and the major cuts that this government has made. We are proposing an increase of EUR 100 million in our own option, which would at least be reasonable if we thought that in 2016 development cooperation appropriations were cut by 43% at once and we are still at that level. It is very worrying and there are no wise arguments for it. All in all, I think that the idea that has come in this Chamber today is sensible, that there should be some form of parliamentary cooperation that commits itself to an adequate level of development cooperation over the parliamentary term. That is a very important and good thing. We are also concerned about the state of global education mentioned here with regard to non-governmental organisations. In our own option, we make a statement that this possibility still exists for NGOs. All in all, we are expressing the concern that the NGOs have been cut far too much now, Mr Soini, and that this work will be greatly hampered. President! In our alternative budget, we are also taking a position on other subsidies, which are subsidies for NGOs operating under foreign and European policy, which have also fallen over the years. This was the case this year, even in the coming year, when these names, which organisations will receive from the budget, were removed, when this power was actually taken away from Parliament. Of course, it has happened that, in any case, there are more applicants, there is too little money, and this is a cause for concern. All in all, we in the alternative budget invest in the activities of non-governmental organisations in different administrative sectors and propose additional funding. Therefore, we are also proposing an additional EUR 1 million to NGOs active in key foreign policy areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u66	Madam Chairman! There has been a great deal of talk here about the role of women and girls, among others, which is our top priority in development cooperation, and that is a good thing. A mere amount is no longer enough when we talk about education, for example. Now most of the girls are going to school, but the quality of the education is very poor. There are schools where there are no teachers at all, or if anyone there ever is, they are uneducated. In the absence of sanitary facilities, girls are afraid of rapes in schools and on school trips, as is often the case, of course. It's terribly unsafe to send little children to school. In other words, we definitely need to raise the issue of quality development more strongly, and that is where we Finns have a great deal to offer, and that is what we are doing, but I encourage and encourage this, and also the further promotion and resourcing of the issue of sexual and reproductive health. This is an extremely important issue in terms of demographic development and human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u67	Before Mr Niiko's speech, this debate will take place until 12 noon and the ministers will be given the floor at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u68	Madam President! I would like to return to this debate on the Afghan delegation. My esteemed Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, and then the former long-standing Foreign Minister, here, mentioned that Afghanistan will not be withdrawn, and this was not the case — Afghanistan, of course, must not be withdrawn. We must participate in crisis management and peacekeeping tasks as we have agreed, and that work is being done. The only thing I wanted to draw attention to in my speech is the need to be present with the delegation in Afghanistan, because the costs and the risks for workers are so great that it does not necessarily reflect what we expect. Of course, this successful rescue of one woman, the relief worker, is an extremely good example of the need that the embassy has had, but in the long run this must also be looked at for cost reasons. Mr President! After all, Afghanistan receives some EUR 40 million, of which 30 million are bilateral aid. About 10 million of this goes through the reconstruction fund. After all, this reconstruction fund is EUR 1 billion, in which Finland is practically 1% involved, so even if it were to happen for some reason that Finland would not be involved in this financing of Afghanistan, it would hardly end there. The rest of them will do the job. The reason I have criticised this in the past is because in 2010 the Afghan regime was caught embezzling some one billion dollars of funds, and the President's brother was also involved. 200 million was recovered from it. There was such a fuss that Norway, among other things, reduced the amount of bilateral aid, but at the same time increased Finland. This was already the case during the last parliamentary term, and there was a debate here in Parliament on this. In that sense, it is not necessary to be completely naive about what that money can accomplish. Mr President! For these visa policies: It is good that money has been added to the budget to speed up these visa procedures. Among other things, money is coming to China like this, and it has been well considered in the ministry that this will be changed. What I would like to highlight with my own examples and about which I have been in contact with the Foreign Minister and also with the Finnish Embassy in China in Beijing concerns the practice and process of issuing visas. I now want to open it up to other Members of Parliament, so that you can understand how difficult it is to promote exports for some. There will be a Chinese delegation in Finland, as did the Committee on the Future a few months ago in the autumn, when dozens of Chinese people came here to meet different people. One group with 20 persons did not receive a visa on time even though they had applied for it 8 weeks before. The reason was that there was a problem with that visa-making device or someone, and that whole thing went wrong, and they were late. Of course, they got here a day late, but they had to pay for new plane tickets, they missed the meetings they had made with the entrepreneurs, and the reputation we had was still a little disproportionate. The reason these visas are often late is that they are not issued when they are wrongly applied for. It is a practice in Finland to apply for a visa, that if you accidentally apply for a tourist visa and they find that you are going to meet with business representatives, the visa application will be rejected. Then if you're looking for a business visa and if you're doing some other trips, then the application will be rejected when you tell them too much. This has happened to a great many Chinese entrepreneurs who have come. Even a Chinese entrepreneur with a third application did not obtain a visa. He came through Sweden to make the deals that had been agreed on in relation to bioenergy. This too happened this autumn. It cannot be that the Chinese businessman has to show that he can spend 30 euros a day in Finland even if he has a millionaire in his background. They are therefore asked to receive bank statements for up to three months before a visa can be issued to them. This policy is childish and ridiculous. This spoils Finland's reputation, and that is why I am now publicly saying that there has been no change in this matter in any way. Mr President! Of course we're running out of time. I would have liked to talk about development cooperation and visa practices and others and about this return of Iraqis to the country of origin, but for lack of time, I will leave it to the floor later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u69	Madam President! In that preliminary debate, Mr Salolainen expressed an opinion that I would be happy to agree with — Mr Salolainen left. He was very supportive of Business Finland, and he was also in favour of stepping up the work of our delegations. In practice, it has been said that not all the embassies that have been in charge of diplomats in the past have yet managed to trim their work in the commercial direction as efficiently as we would like. As a result, our section has expressed its opinion that there should also be more commercial training for diplomatic training in such a way that they can also do the work that goes beyond normal old-fashioned diplomacy. This was also the case with Mr Stefan Wallin, Business Finland, that it does not have a combined budget from the consolidation appropriations. Of course, when such a company-based and ideological association is combined, organisational change will certainly make administrative savings and staff savings, then it cannot be thought that it is one. I would also like to thank Minister Silent for the positive opinion he expressed in the direction of the section that I chair, that is, the Section for Employment and the Economy, because one of the appropriations came from us on the side of the U.M., 400,000, a very large sum. We have found that our work is very close to many other ministries, and I would like to warmly thank the administration and administrative flexibility so that our appropriations do not always fall into the main category of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. And I must admit that not only do we all have lofty ideas about developing countries because of the nature of our work, but the nature of our section's work also includes a touch of working towards the export efforts of Finnish small and medium-sized enterprises, which are involved in this and in that way also contributes to the commercial aspect which Mr Mykkänen perfectly represents.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u70	Madam President! This referred to Business Finland, and I would like to make one thing clear, namely that it is very good that the structure is being strengthened and this reform is being carried out, so that this export promotion work can be brought into line with domestic and foreign activities and strengthens the international network in particular. But the concern is, of course, that the delegations are working well with thin occupations, and in the future we must ensure that this work can be done better and more firmly on our shoulders. Strategic priorities could be selected, which countries are important for Finland's exports and companies, and strengthened. But I would ask the Minister: My concern is that we have had six internationalisation experts in six places that have done excellent work for two years now, and this money will be out of business next year. You will do everything in your power to keep these six jobs going, which have been a strong help to Finnish companies in their internationalisation efforts, and preferably even more of them and more of them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u71	We are running out of time for the debate, so I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to make a brief one-minute speech. — — — — Congressman Anttila next.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u72	Mr President! As vice-chairman of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe, I would like to highlight the fact that in one year's time Finland will hold the Presidency of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. In this regard, I would also like to thank Mr Soini. You have made a very good visit to Strasbourg, and this preparation for the Presidency is about to begin. That is an important issue; we have a lot of things that we can take with us to the presidency. But I actually asked for this speech to draw attention to this, that when Finland is so heavily dependent on exports, this reform, which is now taking place in this area by Business Finland, must necessarily be successful. In this connection, I was made one big mistake, and that is that the activities of these export agents, who were fully aware of these export countries, were abolished — 150 man-years of work was lost through this. This was said to the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in New York, and he was very concerned about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u73	Madam President! I will address this same issue raised by Mr Anttila, to this Presidency of the Council of Europe of Finland, which is actually coming in 2019. Of course, the budget for 2019 should then be set aside for this. But these themes of the Presidency are already topical. At the moment, when we look at the Member States of the Council of Europe, we have a very worrying development in terms of media freedom and freedom of expression, the conditions under which the media operate. I would like to ask Minister Soin: could this theme of media freedom and freedom of expression play a central role during the Finnish Presidency of the Council of Europe when it comes to it? I'm sure we'd have a lot of good practices. For example, these own media self-regulation mechanisms, which many countries lack, could be examples that could then be shared and promoted by other Member States in the course of this Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u74	Mr President! I was very pleased with Mr Mykkänen's response that you are prepared to discuss across party boundaries the way in which we could also, with long-term protection of development cooperation, raise development funds to 0.7% of GDP. We all understand that, although the economy is growing, what we hope for, and we are probably all proposing ways to speed it up, that lift will not happen in the moment. It is precisely for that reason that we would need a plan or programme over the electoral period to ensure, on the one hand, that we are able to ensure the coherence and long-term sustainability that I believe we can see in our development cooperation, regardless of the government itself. We have girls and women as one priority, the fight against tax evasion, human rights, the rule of law and so on. I think it would be great if the Minister could turn words into deeds and invite representatives of the parliamentary groups to meet and have a debate on whether it is the way to the Development Policy Commission or what could be the format that would be used to prepare such things over the parliamentary term. I hope this isn't the end of the story.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u75	Madam President! Mr Soin's speech was very clear. He is a clear NATO man assumed and a clear EU man assumed. But, Madam President, Minister Soini answered the question of arms exports so that when the situation changes, the estimate changes. And now my question is: what is the government's assessment of arms exports to the Middle East? Several written questions have been asked about it. For years, the situation in Yemen has been affected by the war between Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates, and despite this, arms export permits have been issued. Is it now the position of the government that, in this situation, now that the situation has become more acute in the Middle East, it will be brought to an end? The second question concerns the situation in Israel and Palestine. The EU Foreign Ministers met with Netanyahu at a breakfast meeting. This is a very difficult situation. The United States is moving its embassy to Jerusalem, the situation is in crisis. What was the message from the ministers? Was it a two-state solution — it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u76	Mr President! The overall independent evaluation of programme support commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this autumn concludes that the development cooperation of the organisations is effective. These organisations reach the most vulnerable people in developing countries, and precisely because they reach those who are not necessarily reachable by other actors, their work is very important. It is important, therefore, that the development cooperation of organisations, the continuity of humanitarian aid and the funding of organisations continue to be safeguarded. In the light of this budget, how do you estimate how this will turn out? The second thing that concerns us is the possible change in the global education money that Mr Sarkkinen has already raised here. So I would like an answer to these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u77	Minister Soini, princely three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u78	Mr President! There are a few things I can answer in this time frame. I am particularly pleased that representatives Laukkanen and Arhinmäki came to the Chamber — when they asked their questions, were absent — I appreciate it. The accounting value in our embassies is, if I remember correctly, about 200 million, which means that this is a very important issue. We have a lot of money in the embassies, and we also have a huge debt of repair. These are important things. These are good aspects and they are taken seriously. I dare also say that these views are so well-founded that, in future, when negotiations are held with the Ministry of Finance, the Minister will be happy to use these arguments. There were a lot of speeches from the Council of Europe. I'm happy about that. Both representatives of Parviainen, Honkonen and Anttila raised this issue. Thorbjørn Jagland and I had a good conversation. There are quite a lot of problems there now, because we are facing such a threat that both: Turkey and Russia may withdraw a significant part of the funding. Then there will be a deficit of about 50 million. The Council of Europe is important for human rights, for rule-based cooperation and also for the agendas we are taking forward, for women's and girls' rights. The next summit, once a year, will be in Copenhagen. I'll be there in the spring. I'll be there in the spring. Today, freedom of the media and freedom of expression are, in a way, also linked to hybrid influence, cyber-influencing, social media manipulation, many of these types. This is very important. Then a few things about Israel and Palestine. I mean, this is a lot of emotion. Netanyahu came to this breakfast of EU foreign ministers, which was good. He came there as Israel’s first prime minister for 22 years. It is extremely important. And now it is also a goal for President Abbas to be there next year in order to have a debate. This Trump announcement in itself did not change in any way the climate or the opinions that exist on different sides. Israel regards Jerusalem as a capital and so do the Palestinians — in practice, then, if they have a state. The two-state model is what the objective is. But peace must be brought to an end, and war must be brought to an end. [Antero Laukkanen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u79	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u80	Mr President! Thank you very much for the constructive and encouraging speeches. Here, representatives of Vikman and Paloniemi referred to the need to increase the work specifically aimed at education as part of the earlier emphasis on girls and women. In this regard, it is indeed, as has been pointed out here, that if 20 years ago an important decision was made on a global scale that every child should go to school, then this is, in itself, surprisingly true today when you go to Nigeria or Tanzania. Schools are also started on a very broad scale for girls. We are now more at the point where, as has been pointed out, the factors which surprise us from the environment, such as the safety of going to the bathroom and the risk of rape on school trips, are limiting them, and in this respect we are always working with, for example, the Population Fund and UNICEF, UN Women, and in our bilateral country programmes, particularly in Mozambique, Ethiopia, Nepal and Myanmar, where education is our top priority. What has also come up very well here is, I would say, with regard to passing, fortunately, in most countries, girls also pass comprehensive school is now improving rapidly. Next, we are faced with a quality challenge, which, unfortunately, is not what we have been used to in Finland for the last few decades, and this is what we are investing in in our programmes as much as we can. With regard to Vikman in particular, reference was made to the possibilities of Finnish educational institutions, and perhaps here — when asked for some comments which could be better — I would say that our strongest universities could take more of their strategy to the core of its knowledge also from the outside. There it may still be a little bit side by side compared to the huge potential that the brand value of Finnish education really includes everywhere. Representatives Viitanen and Laitinen-Pesola referred to support for organisations. Firstly, as we are now preparing to take a decision on the next four years of programme support for these most important twenty organisations, it is a decision of EUR 200 million for these 20 organisations. Yes, we are still talking about a considerable contribution from taxpayers to the important work of the organisations, although we are, of course, in less money than we have been in the best years — we are now at the level of about 10 years ago in itself, when this is not exactly the Stone Age. This money will now also be seen more strongly on the basis of results, in that those organisations which, through neutral scoring and evaluation, are able to present an effective programme will receive an increasing budget and then, in turn, some of the money will be reduced. And it is not even legally possible to provide a general grant for this, but rather a result-based grant for the programme. As far as communication and global education work is concerned, I have already said that in January we will consider whether the Finnish National Board of Education will be better placed to achieve more with that limited share of a few million euros through them or whether we will continue to do so ourselves. Juhantalo and Toivakka referred to the importance of promoting exports. Land leadership as a cultural change for ambassadors: I have been positively surprised over the last year at how, even after all the challenges, the cultural change in the UM is progressing in the delegations. In good cooperation with Secretary of State Soin, we have taken this. And Toivakka referred to these six
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u81	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u82	Presentation of Section 25 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u83	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Section for Local Government and Health for their excellent work. This section has almost half, depending on the method of calculation, of the budget for its deliberations, because it includes not only the Ministry of Justice but also the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Finance's municipal finances. The total budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is good EUR 940 million. There will be presidential and regional elections next year, in this perspective, and preparations will be made for the parliamentary elections and the Sámi elections next year, among other things, and electoral expenditure will amount to around EUR 45 million in this budget. Democracy demands its price. Mr President! Otherwise, the most significant changes are due to the recent increase in the number of asylum seekers. We have now moved to the phase of dealing with complaints from negative asylum decisions and the removal of those who have received negative asylum decisions. Additional resources of EUR 2.5 million will be allocated to the Supreme Administrative Court and the Administrative Courts for the clearance of congestion. An amount of EUR 300000 shall be allocated to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman for the control of removal. The Frontex Regulation requires the availability of trained controllers in return. Without them, the flights will not leave, and Frontex will not pay us compensation. Mr President! According to the information received by the committee, the funding of the Legal Register Centre is now in order, but the committee considers it necessary to ensure that it is permanently secured in order to ensure its reliability and effectiveness. Financial and debt counselling will be transferred to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice in 2019. An appropriation of EUR 4 million has been earmarked for this purpose. Adequate resources are essential to be able to invest in preventive work as well. The basic funding of the courts will be reduced unless account is taken of the above-mentioned additional allocation for dealing with asylum seekers' complaints. The committee notes that large-scale and demanding cases are increasingly binding on staff and are reflected, among other things, in the division of staff at work. This should be given serious attention in the future. The committee attaches importance to the ongoing reforms and to ensuring e-services and information systems. At the beginning of 2019, the district court reform will take effect. The committee stresses the need to ensure regional access to legal protection, in line with the statement adopted by Parliament. The prosecution system will receive an increase of EUR 400000 next year in the fight against terrorist offences, but the extension of the penalty procedure will result in the same amount being deducted the following year. The committee stresses that the adequacy of the basic funding of the prosecution body will be assessed, inter alia, in the light of the increase in the complexity of matters. Mr President! With regard to the enforcement of sanctions, the committee notes that the budget of the Criminal Sanctions Agency will increase by more than EUR 1 million. According to our information, the current service level can be maintained as long-term adjustment measures have been completed. On the basis of the experiments carried out, EUR 378,000 will be invested in identifying and preventing violent radicalisation and extremism. In previous years, the committee has drawn attention to the need to repair Pelso Prison, for example due to indoor air problems. The committee considers it important that the permanent security of closed detention sites in Northern Finland be clarified. The impact of the options for implementing prisons in Oulu and Pelso must be assessed in terms of, among other things, functional, financial and human resources, and also of the regional economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u84	Minister Häkkänen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u85	Mr President! I would like to thank the committees and the sections on local government and health and their chairmen for their thorough work and also the President for his excellent presentation. Next year, the Ministry of Justice sector will have a great deal of important issues. Some are clearly more resource-efficient, some a little less. There are also a lot of studies and development projects in progress which are intended to have clear financial implications in the long term. The draft budget as a whole will ensure the functioning of the administrative sector next year. While still in the September referral debate The situation in the Legal Register Centre next year seemed challenging, and the increase in appropriations of almost EUR 500000 proposed in the supplementary draft budget will ensure the functioning of the Legal Register Centre. I am very pleased with this increase in appropriations. Similarly, the total increase of EUR 400000 in appropriations proposed in the draft budget and in the supplementary draft budget to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is sufficient for the proper implementation of the enforcement of removals in next year. In the courts, the most important case jam is in administrative courts, where a considerable number of asylum complaints were received within a short period of time. An additional amount of EUR 2.5 million is proposed for administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court in relation to the level of the current year in order to eliminate the congestion of complaints against asylum seekers. Personnel have been increased in asylum matters and the processing time in administrative courts is expected to be reduced by less than six months next year. The appropriations for legal aid for asylum seekers will also be fully available next year. That's taken care of, too. The Ministry of Justice has also prepared proposals for this Parliament to develop the procedure. It will be important to present a proposal for a comprehensive reform of the Administrative Law. In this context, it is intended to provide for the appeal procedure as the main rule for appeal to the Administrative Court of the Supreme Administrative Court. With its funding for next year, the prosecution department will be able to keep its current staff. There is no prospect of an increase in the number of prosecution cases, but there has been a strong increase in the complexity of the cases. This is reflected, in particular, in the increase in the number of long-term cases, i.e. cases pending for more than a year. An additional EUR 400000 is also proposed for the prosecution institution to combat terrorist offences and to carry out criminal liability in these extremely difficult cases. This appropriation is more than necessary for these issues. The organisational structure of the prosecution system will also be proposed as a whole in the coming years with a new proposal. The level change intended to safeguard the capacity of the Criminal Sanctions Agency and maintain the prison network will increase to EUR 5.1 million from EUR 3.7 million in the current year. Prisons prevent violent radicalisation and extremist activities, for which an additional amount of nearly EUR 400000 is proposed to the Criminal Sanctions Agency. The Commissioner for Justice and I visited a pilot project in Vantaa prison to prevent radicalisation, and the purpose is to visit the same place as the French Minister for Justice. Radicalisation in prisons is one of the main sources of terrorism and must therefore be tackled vigorously. Grants to entities providing support to victims of crime are presented to the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector for approximately EUR 4.9 million. This appropriation is intended to cover some EUR 4 million for the activities of Victim Support Office and approximately EUR 700000 for the very important Nollalinja telephone service. Other organisations providing victim support services would also be assisted. The services focus on strengthening equal access to support services and continue to develop services in Swedish. Mr President! The economic situation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is challenging, as is the case in every administrative sector, but our assessment is that the financial position of the administrative sector will also be sustainable in 2018. In the long term, by taking care of the development of justice and the implementation of ongoing projects to reform the functioning of justice, we will also be able to improve the legal protection of citizens from the present. Looking at the international environment, it is increasingly important to ensure that Finland has a strong profile as a rule of law and that it can even be strengthened in the coming years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u86	Now we can go to the debat. We've got about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u87	Madam President! Thank you for these presentations, that was a very heavy and good text. I was particularly pleased at this end when the Minister of Justice said that EUR 4.9 million was being financed for Victim Support and other support organisations. It is essential that the victim of a crime receive these services when he or she has become the victim of a serious crime. In addition, this reflects the situation the government wants, which means that the victim of the crime is at the heart of it. He is being helped and supported, and, of course, he is happy to prevent crime. And of course that is great, it is necessary for the administrative courts to receive additional funding in order to get them out of these asylum seekers' cases. This is how it should be, absolutely, and it is in everyone's interest. It is in the interests of society, but it is in fact also in the interests of its asylum seeker. What remained to be considered here are these general courts. How can these reforms be carried through now that, at least, I understand, no additional funding has been found? Aipa projects and this reform in general —
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u88	Madam President! I would like to raise this issue of the Sami. There is an extraordinary amount going on in this area, many legislative projects: the Sámi District Act is being reformed, the Nordic Sámi Treaty is on the table and the ILO Treaty 169 ratification has remained in the house from the last parliamentary term. To the extent that I am critical, I would have liked to have seen the opposition represented in this working group preparing the Sámi District Act. After all, this working group now consists solely of representatives of the government parties. This is so much a big question for us in Lapland, how this will be solved. However, this is a parliamentary group, and I myself am involved in it, and I hope that the Minister will at least help us to see that this parliamentary work is meaningful, that is to say that it can actually influence these matters. Another point I would like to raise: When will the reform of the prison network in Northern Finland be completed? As far as Pelso is concerned, it is shrinking. I think it's only 60 places left, and it's to be kept.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u89	Mr President! The Finns of Peru are concerned about the legal security of Finns, that there is an opportunity to have the case dealt with quickly and well before the courts. It is not promoted by the fact that the government is reducing the resources of the courts and also of the prosecution. Although resources are being added to the administrative court to deal with asylum complaints, it must be understood that there is also a huge amount of litigation in district courts and court courts. The Finnish legal security is also weakened by the fact that the appeal permit system does not really get through those smallest cases, and then those court fees have also recently risen. But, above all, people are often concerned about the high legal costs. For many, it is an obstacle to trial if it costs ten grand, 20 tons per degree of trial. Do you, the Minister of Justice, take up the proposal of the Finns of Peru that they go to investigate and calculate them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u90	Mr President! The grey economy reduces tax revenue and undermines society’s ability to secure basic services, and companies that circumvent taxes also enjoy unfair competitive advantages. I am disappointed that the members of the government parties have not decided to increase the budget for prosecutors and courts to combat the shadow economy, which is in the green alternative budget. Central to the fight against financial crime is cooperation between the authorities. Mr President! I would also like to raise the issue of the Sámi Chambers, of which Mr Ojala-Niemela asked important questions. It is good that the government has now increased the resources of the Sámi Parliaments to implement the Sámi District Act and, among other things, to deal with land ownership issues. But according to the Sámi people, the needs are much greater, and this was a one-off. So I ask the Minister: how will we ensure the funding of the Sámi people at an adequate level in the future? After all, this is the only indigenous people in the EU, whose rights we need to take great care of here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u91	Mr President! Minister Häkkänen, I do not want to go back to the district court, to the tough debate and arm wrestling. It's gone or it's going in the same position as it's going in your decision. However, on this point, I would like to ask, on the basis of information or rumours from your ministry, what is going on with regard to the enforcement network, when the speech is that there would be quite a reduction there too. As you well understand, Mr Minister, it touches the towns quite strongly, as was the case with the District Court. That's why I'm asking: What's the point? What kind of plans do we have? What is the decision-making timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u92	Mr President! Interestingly, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has had a great deal of common concern about the fact that the financial situation of the general courts has been poor for a long time, and it does not seem to be given sufficient serious attention in the Ministry of Justice either. We may be a little puzzled that officials did not find these concerns as serious as we do. However, it is the basis for both the fight against the shadow economy and the system as a whole that the judiciary is also functioning effectively enough. The District Court of Helsinki, for example, is very congested. Greatness may not always save you from the cost. Here, the taps can be very complicated. But with the previous speakers I would like to raise the issue of the Sámi Chambers in the same way. Sámi diggers have statutory duties.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u93	Madam President! I would have paid attention to a few things here. Regional legal protection and linguistic rights were interfered with a moment ago when the district court reform was adopted. In practice, this means that this reduction in seats should take place in 2019, but this year 2018 has not taken any account of this change money, as required by such a huge change and preparation for it. Has this been accidentally ignored by the Justice Department when this money has not been taken into account here? One of the key objectives of this year was to improve the situation of those in slavery and debt imprisonment in the 1990s. At the beginning of the year there was a strong will that something should happen in this area. Nothing's happened. Has this been forgotten, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u94	Mr President! It is good that: The activities of the Legal Register Centre are secured by this additional allocation and also by the identification of violent radicalisation and extremism in prisons. Thank you also to the Minister for putting the prison situation in Northern Finland into a survey right in the autumn. Its deadline has now been extended until mid-January. I would have asked, like Mr Ojala-Niemelä, what is the situation and whether it will be resolved in the early part of the year. The committee drew attention to the fact that solutions to securing the prison situation in Northern Finland or other prison renovation solutions should not in some way jeopardise other regional solutions. Finally, in general terms, I would like to thank the Minister for your attention in this area and for raising these issues of the rule of law and legal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u95	Mr President! Legal certainty is, of course, the first thing to worry about. With regard to the Aipa issue, the committee did draw attention to the fact that it is regrettable that when it was due to be completed next year it would go to 21. [Department : Again! ] Municipal leaders in those provinces are concerned about the lengthening of cases in administrative courts. Among other things, now that there is an economic upturn, projects should be taken forward, and complaints even delay good jobs and business projects, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u96	Mr President! It is very good that we have received additional money to combat terrorist offences and to prevent radicalisation in prisons and, of course, also Victim Support. However, I would like to draw attention to the same point as Mr Tavio here earlier, that is to say, the possibility for ordinary people to obtain justice in Finland. I am particularly concerned about the fact that the courts are still congested, but also about the fact that it is very difficult for people, especially those on average, to obtain justice, because these costs are really high, they talk about tens of thousands of euros. The rich can afford it, and then the poor, low-income ones will receive legal aid free of charge, but the dropout will be just an ordinary person who lives on his own salary and tries to survive. I would have asked the Minister: are we going to have some reforms, for example, so that we can improve these reconciliation practices so that things do not even go to the courts there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u97	Even before the minister, representatives of Parviainen and Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u98	Madam President! In the area of the Ministry of Justice, too, I would intervene in the fight against the grey economy, which was already mentioned by Mr Karimäki. I understand that there are no quick profits available, and the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion is a handicraft that must be done in a cross-administrative way. I would ask you, Mr Häkkänen, about your analytical view of how you see that cross-border cooperation is currently taking place on this issue, and would it be possible for us to make this Chamber even more effective? As a second general comment, we have mentioned the handling of asylum applications and their resources, which I think is quite right. Applications must be processed in accordance with the rule of law and as quickly as possible. It's in everyone's best interest. I am a little disappointed if, once again, asylum seekers and others are put against each other, because we must, after all, respect the rule of law in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u99	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Kauma very well highlighted the cost of costly judicial processes, which have in practice led to the fact that very many people do not have the opportunity to seek justice, no matter how much injustice they feel they have suffered in this country. I thought I'd ask the Attorney General when, as I recall, you had a project or an investigation pending about how to get these extra costs down. In many obvious cases, lawyers, in doing their own work with dignity, will of course seek to appeal to the Court of Appeal in all possible cases. It will raise costs without mercy and then cause this problem, as Mr Kauma said in his speech, among other things. Is there any more detailed information or even changes in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u100	Mr Strand, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u101	Mr President, värderade talman! Over-indebtedness is a big problem, and some 400,000 Finns already have default marking. It does not fit my sense of law that many times these markings will also hang for years, even if the debt itself has been paid. This has been discussed with the Minister before, and it would be nice to hear if any progress has been made. There has also been talk of a positive credit register. Is there anything new about that? I myself arranged a conversation with OK Perinna some time ago, which included the Guarantee Foundation, the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Consumer Federation, the Finnish Customer Information, entrepreneurs and various financial actors. The methods of payment also change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u102	Mr President! There were so many questions that we would quickly try to answer as many people as possible. The chairman of the Legal Committee, Kari Tolvanen, may well be a good question for such a general line of principle, emphasising the status of the victim. In Finland, criminal policy had decades, and may even have been a little tradition up to now, by emphasising what may be happening between the state and the offender, but now the focus and focus have increasingly shifted to how the status of the victim can be improved. This perspective will also be at the top of the agenda when consideration is being given to tightening the penalty scales. It focuses primarily on how the victim sees, for example, a serious act of violence from the point of view of the victim, not how we see it from the point of view of the perpetrator. Prison survey of Northern Finland. I put an additional deadline in the report because it also needs to carry out proper regional economic impact assessments and staff impact assessments. Otherwise, the original report would not have had them properly, so we had to take a few more months and we will be ready in mid-January. The alternative now is to do: One new large building in Oulu or two slightly smaller new buildings in Vaala and Oulu. I have not really reached a conclusion on this, but we will look at it carefully. What I already know is that the budgetary pressure — because this is a solution for more than ten years — is extremely tight for the next ten to fifteen years. In other words, we have to make an appropriate decision, but then we have to look at the budget side pretty tight. As far as costs are concerned, we have an evaluation in the ministry of what could be done. It is challenging, especially for middle-income earners, who may not be able to obtain a direct legal aid decision if the cost structure of the counterparty starts to grow very high. As far as the Sámi issue is concerned, I would like to give these working groups some peace. Let's just keep our hands crossed so we can do it now. It has been a very sensitive and painful question, the whole of the Sami affairs, so let us now give the job some peace. In the restructuring of enforcement, a proposal will be brought to Parliament in the spring. There has been no specifics of this matter yet. The Kingdom Vouti has made few basic presentations on this site network, but there is not yet a debate on the political side. As far as the grey economy is concerned: although some appropriations are not specifically earmarked, this does not mean that prosecutors and courts do not normally deal with the fight against the black economy in their own work. It's being treated every day. And the cooperation that Mrs Parviainen asked about is constantly being conducted with the police at the stages of the preliminary investigation and then, of course, at the presentation of evidence in that court. With regard to the unification of elections: here I would personally have a view on this issue, but let us not say it now because of the lack of time. [Heckling — Laughing]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u103	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u104	This plenary session shall be suspended for meetings of the Commission and parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u105	We shall now resume the plenary session adjourned at 12.30 p.m. today. The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u106	Congressman Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u107	Mr President! Here in Parliament we have talked a lot about inequality, equality and government cuts in the unemployed, among other things. The atmosphere and discussion have been quite intense at times. This is how it wants to be in Parliament at this stage of the year. But in a week's time, it'll be Christmas. It is a celebration that many families expect and a happy family event. Christmas can also be a somewhat distressing and lonely holiday for some. This is good for all of us to be aware of and study it in our hearts as well. Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, has the government discussed the anxiety caused by the loneliness of the citizens? What can we all do to make every Finn feel valuable and necessary?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u108	Mr President! That's a very good question. We are very much taking when we talk about internal security, and in an internal security strategy, for example, we have raised this issue, because if a person experiences insecurity, that is one thing. In general, safety is a basic human need, and many times you can manage if you feel safe and feel safe. But loneliness may rob you of that particular sense of security. This is very important to us for many reasons. Among other things, the Government Programme has included the livelihoods and economic livelihoods of individuals living alone as one of the priorities. Minister Saarikko can tell us more about this. Different ministries have drawn attention to this. But it is one of the priorities of such internal security. Of course, the good thing about loneliness is that we cannot leave — that is, the good thing is that we cannot leave — because it is a task for the authorities alone, but that you and I, as neighbors, can help it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u109	Mr President! I would like to say that the Prime Minister's deputy, Minister Risiko's speech, is to continue with the fact that we in the Government Programme decided to focus on social and health policy and welfare issues on the programme for the change of child and family services, but on an equal basis we assigned the government the task of investigating the situation of the living alone in Finnish society. These groups should not be set against each other, but it should be noted that there are more than one million people in Finland whose household is a single household. Why are we bringing this up? Loneliness and living alone are not always the same words. They may be, but even together, someone may feel very lonely. It is clear, however, that the single person is in a higher risk zone. But also economic income is one factor and one that allows you to isolate yourself from the community when economic income does not allow, for example, to take part in various opportunities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u110	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question on this issue to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u111	Mr President! In fact, this week the public radio reported that most of the Christmas gatherings for the underprivileged this year are likely to record a record, since help is growing year by year. This week I was very touched by the news about how a seven - year - old child wanted to give a toy to an unknown peer. This confirms that Finland has a strong desire to help the weaker and the poorer, and I think this is a valuable thing. However, it is good for us decision-makers to keep in mind that the Finnish welfare society ensures that a decent and good life is guaranteed for everyone. Deputy Prime Minister, how do you see whether the Finnish welfare state should be strengthened in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u112	Mr President! You are raising a very important question. As the welfare society that Finland is, that is what we think we should do. It involves security, it involves a safety net, social security in a situation where life happens. Every one of us experiences situations in life when we need the help of others, sometimes we need the help of the authorities. That is why a network of authorities has been created in Finland, but also a social security network, and that is what we need to strengthen. For we will also ensure that inequality does not increase. Inequality is the worst thing that can happen in society. That is what we are trying to do, among other things in the government, to ensure that this does not happen, by increasing employment, by maintaining the economy, but also by reforming social security, by reforming family leave, by strengthening education and, in many ways, by strengthening security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u113	Mr President! There has also been an increase in inequalities in services. There has been a message from different parts of Finland, for example, that the number and quality of elderly services vary too much. Many of our elderly people who need a lot of help would need a spokesperson at the moment. On the other hand, older people feel that their voices are not always heard enough in society. Minister Saarikko, during your last term as a Member of Parliament, you have made a laudable point about the need to set up an old-age ombudsman to speak out the voice of the elderly. Now that you are a minister, how do you intend to proceed on this important issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u114	Mr President! The most important security for Finnish elderly people is the Act on Elderly Services, which was prepared during the last term of the Government, and the whole parliament supported the creation of its own legislation for the protection, care, care and social inclusion of the elderly. One part of the voice is that of the elderly councils, which are in almost every municipality and which will continue to be active in the future provinces, in charge of social services. I recognize the statement the representative refers to. So far, I have not had the opportunity to contribute to that. At the same time, perhaps I am wise in those years to say that perhaps the creation of a mandate in society is not the best answer to the Social Democrats' question: combating loneliness, improving the position of older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u115	Mr President! This is a good topic for discussion as Christmas approaches, and it is probably the case that money can never replace a friend. In fact, as Christmas approaches, I would like every representative and minister here to be able to testify out loud that we must remember to call the family, the loved ones, perhaps some acquaintance, and ask them how they are. Of course, it is extremely worrying that many people live on donations, such as constantly seeking food from the bread lines that we have discussed here. Similarly, I saw this same program where the child went with the parent to choose a gift. Of course, it is good education and exemplary activity and encourages others to help. But, for example, with regard to index cuts: could we now promise that something will be done about this for Christmas? Even if something is done about it later, the poor financial situation of a lonely person does not wait for himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u116	Mr President! Mr Meri raised a very important point precisely that we can all work towards it, that we cannot always think that it is possible to outsource it. We have paid a great deal of attention in the ministry, but also in the whole ministerial groups, to exclusion and how important it is for each young person to have at least one reliable adult. It would also bring that security. You paid attention to index cuts. They are part of our economy, part of this economic plan, because a strong economy also brings security. In the long run, it is precisely because we are able to control the economy that we are able to keep Finland’s welfare society. This is part of the bigger picture. Although the small cuts and reductions, of course, will certainly affect people’s lives — we will not underestimate them — if we get jobs, it will be the best social protection and we will be able to pay for this welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u117	Mr President! It is generally the case that a Finnish citizen, a person is benevolent and wants to help a disadvantaged person. It is good to hear in this Chamber that this is the case. But I would have liked to ask the Minister of Health what you, as legislators in this Parliament, could do when we have disability services in our municipalities, and many of the municipalities have their own regulations that if the care provider is three days sick, then the municipality cannot hire a substitute for this and therefore the disability services are not provided by those who need those services. I ask the Minister whether we are doing something that really should make people in an equal position so that the relationship between the recipient of care and the provider of care is not broken if the person who provides security and care for this disabled person is ill? I think it should be that every Finn who needs home care can have it. I ask the Minister: what are you doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u118	Mr President! The situation raised by the representative is certainly an everyday reality that should not be true. As a legislator, both the Government and Parliament together can place the body of the law on the one to which each person who needs services can rely in his municipality of residence: this is what I am entitled to, this is what I am entitled to, this municipality is obliged to me to carry out the services. And of course, apart from the individual case which I do not know and which you may mention in the background of this example, it is clear that the concerns and concerns of the disabled or the elderly who need services, the everyday needs, look at the situation of the service provider. So the question is a little difficult in that it is up to us to take care of legislation and, on the one hand, through the system of state-owned municipalities, where this government has maintained a good level, to bring to the municipalities the framework conditions for the economy so that the services can be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u119	Mr President! The number of children and young people without friends has increased. One such child and young person is far too much. A good hobby protects the child, gives meaningful things to do, and also gives friends a community of friends. On the other hand, hobbies are very expensive and families are increasingly deprived. Government cuts to basic security and indexes have also resulted in further consolidations. Children of families with low incomes often do not have the opportunity to engage. I would now like to ask the government and the corresponding minister: what are you doing to improve the involvement of these children? What do you do to give every child the opportunity to engage in a meaningful hobby?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u120	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and the government has also been active in this regard. Indeed, this problem has been known for a long time and we have taken a number of different measures. I would like to mention, first of all, the study I have already launched, that I want to create a hobby passport through which every young person will have the opportunity, for example through mobile application, to engage in activities regardless of his or her wealth and to get to know different hobbies. In addition, the Government has made a hobby month in which, in cooperation with municipalities, this guarantee is promoted so that young people can enjoy as much leisure opportunities as possible. Similarly, there is a desire to build low-threshold leisure opportunities in connection with schools. In other words, a wide range of measures are in progress on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u121	Irade the Talman! Representative Karimäki asked about the situation of young people. The proportion of NEET young people, i.e. young people who are not in education or employment, is significant in Finland, it is more than double that of other Nordic countries. We also recently learned that boys are doing worse than girls in school, and when this is accompanied by future admission test reforms, which are increasingly emphasising the success of school, there is cause for concern. I ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: what can we do in schools, what can you do to reduce the success gap between girls and boys?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u122	Mr President! The differences in the learning outcomes of girls and boys have been a long-standing issue, and experts are currently working on this topic, and it is also intended to provide more research information in March, and hence measures that are already being put into practice with the new curricula. The issue started with loneliness, and I think it is important that this debate also extended to children and young people. The basic thing is that even in schools and, of course, at home too, our important task is to teach children and young people the ability to put themselves in another person's position, the ability to empathize, the ability to act in a group and to involve everyone in play and friends and hobbies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u123	Mr President! The Youth Research Network has carried out a unique study of young people aged between 15 and 29 outside work, education and training. This study was published last week, and Mrs Kaikkonen and I were also there to listen to these comments. The main reason for exclusion was, in the opinion of these young people, the lack of friends. Although the share and role of work and education in the satisfaction of living was significant, it was the lack of friends that was the main cause of exclusion. Young people themselves believe that this exclusion is above all social exclusion. So I ask the government whether we have a situation in which we should no longer talk about marginalised young people, but we are, in a way, talking about the fact that we have replaced young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u124	Mr President! Thank you for this important question and attention and for the observation that loneliness is getting more and more into the debate and is clearly identified as a risk factor and something we can do something about. This has to do with the culture that I raised in the previous answer, which would ensure that no one would be left out of the group and not be left alone, and that we can influence the school communities and influence our hobbies. In addition to that, we have good existing practices that are disseminated, Nice School is one example, and it is being further developed. Loneliness also takes new forms in the sense that when we live in a more digital world, it also somehow feeds on the culture of doing alone, certainly in the other direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u125	And on the board stand, Mr. Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u126	Mr President! This is an extremely important issue because it has been demonstrated and monitored that young people who have been pushed aside are vulnerable to radicalism in the whole world, to radicalism's brainwashing, to such activities, where extremist thinking brings false meaning to people's lives. In fact, I have started a school tour in Finnish schools, I have already been to Tikkurila, Northern Tapiola, next week I will go to Maunula, and the demand is practically unlimited, and it is extremely important that the school should be told to schoolchildren that extremist thinking, religious, political or motivated by violence is wrong unequivocally. This is a very important issue, and we must all work together here: school, decision-makers, non-governmental organisations,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u127	Mr President! Friendship is not a trend, and it doesn't follow fashion, and it doesn't get interest, but it's still the best investment in life. Often friends can be found in the area of voluntary activities, and now, for example, the reform of the social and health system has been a major concern that many voluntary organisations have less access to support, assistance and action.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u128	Mr President! I think it is excellent that, at the end of this debate, one of the most important safeguards for strengthening the everyday and good lives of civil society and everyone, NGOs, also emerged. Time is not particularly bad for them, although the question might be concluded. It is now in our hands that the social and health services in the third sector are receiving an historic big money pool from the lottery. But it is quite clear that the social and health reform also puts organisations in a new position as partners in the official and public system of social and health services. I have been thinking about stimulating the idea of whether it would be appropriate to go over their full role – some of them service providers, some of them peer support, for example, through patient organisations – and I recognise that there are still some inconceivable points in this major reform. And the last thing I want to say is
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u129	Next question, Mr. Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u130	Mr President! I'll continue with the training theme. The future of Finland rests on education. Yesterday, the Amisbarometer of professional students was published, where little user experience was gained from our vocational school today, and one of the most significant points was that students want more local education, more provision of education. This had risen dramatically in this Amisbarometer, by 15 per cent. Several had asked for this, about a third said that education did not receive enough local education. This has, of course, been influenced by the large cuts made by the government. Many are also concerned that school dropout will increase as the amount of education has decreased. From the beginning of next year, the reform of vocational education and training institutions will enter into force, but there is also no certainty that teachers will have enough time for the students, i.e. the problems will increase. What will the government do to ensure that local education in vocational education and training:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u131	Mr President! The Amisbarometri published yesterday was read very carefully at the Ministry, and the findings that it revealed had been well raised in discussions with the students in the Ministry in the past and should be taken seriously. New legislation on vocational education and training has been prepared all the way and will enter into force from the beginning of next year. As far as this so-called contact education is concerned, it started to decline in vocational education and training at a time when the financing of vocational education and training increased. It is partly related to the fact that studies have moved to new environments — more workplaces, project learning in teams and so on — but there is also a reduction which is of concern to the ministry and which should be discussed with the providers of education. However, that teaching is at the heart of everything, and the new legislation also gives the student the right to do so. New vocational education and training
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u132	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u133	Mr President! Another issue of concern in this Amisbarometri was mental health, the mental health situation of students. About a third had experienced depression during studies. Special attention here is drawn to the situation of foreign students. In the case of foreign students, there had even been bullying on the part of teachers. We've been talking a lot around here. The 'Too' campaign and the way in which harassment is totally inappropriate and forbidden in educational institutions, but this barometer showed that not only students but even teachers may be guilty of this. After all, this leads to an increase in school drop-out and a decrease in school comfort. What does the government intend to do about this, that a healthy school environment and zero tolerance for all bullying should also be achieved in vocational schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u134	Mr President! This is an excellent question, and if I said that the findings in the previous question did not come as a surprise to the ministry, it must be admitted that it was very startling to read the feedback of students on how much sexual harassment and other discrimination students experience in vocational education. To date, together with the trainers, we have called on the whole field of vocational education and training, in fact the whole field of education, that we absolutely need to get zero tolerance and eradicate all forms of discrimination and harassment from education, because it is precisely the environment in which we should be able to teach children and young people how to act in this society with respect for others, and that is an unreasonable situation if the student in that learning environment has to face up to this type of behaviour by adults who are their teachers. This is being taken extremely seriously, and by the end of February the National Board of Education is also updating guidelines for education providers to eradicate sexual harassment,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u135	Mr President! Surgery certainly has affected the number of local education, and not all students may be quite as mature for independent study and search for information on the Internet, for example. Another concern relates to the plentiful increase in learning at work. Many entrepreneurs have found that their current resources have difficulties in finding the same extra staff that could be detachable for job-teaching. I would have asked the Minister for Education what kind of feedback you have received from the entrepreneurial field: is it apparent that there are now enough places for learning at work to come, because this number of hours that will be transferred to that place for learning at work is very, very large? In that sense, the question arises as to whether we have enough regional entrepreneurs who are ready to take students and whether there are enough of these places for learning at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u136	Mr President! First of all, young people must not be left to learn too independently. Let me be very clear here. It is also included in the new legislation on vocational education and training through the creation of a personal learning plan for everyone, where it must also be defined in terms of the amount and support of sufficient education in order to achieve those educational objectives. But this situation has, of course, become quite strained in the field of vocational education and training at the moment, because a major reform – the biggest one in two decades – is being carried out in a difficult economic situation. As far as workplace learning and the big picture is concerned, employers and working life are very positive about the basic idea that learning should be increasingly transferred to natural environments, i.e. workplaces, and that is also a very positive development from the point of view of motivation and learning outcomes. But, of course, there is still a lot of work to be done: local solutions are needed where education providers and working life are concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u137	Mr President! Mr Haavisto raises a very important question here. In committee, we went over that reduction in the number of local education in the context of reform very much. It is indeed, as the Minister here states, surprisingly little to do with a reduction in resources. In the light of the statistics, we went over it very carefully. So it's more about how things work. I really encourage the Minister, the ministries and us in Parliament to look for the ways in which in this new world, once the reform comes into force, we will find meaningful entities in such a way that there are really, from Monday to Friday — if not that traditional school — controlled activities. It's very important. In order to implement this reform, Parliament has also decided on an economic resource. It has been a long time since we have even more positive news when there have been severe professional cuts, that is true. After all, the Parliament decided 15 plus 15 million, and perhaps more money has been scraped into that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u138	Mr President! As I have already said here, vocational education reform has been carried out in a very challenging economic environment throughout Finland. But what we are trying to do as best we can at the moment is to build support as widely as possible and in different areas for the implementation of this vocational training reform. By adding together the support programme that has now been built along this autumn and partly already implemented, its price tag totals about EUR 60 million, which is channelled from the Ministry into the implementation of the vocational education reform over a period of a few years. And it involves the development of teacher training for new forms of work, it involves the development and piloting of working life cooperation, it also involves new types of digital solutions to support the process of personalisation and so on. In other words, in many ways also through information and communication, we try to go alongside the field of vocational education and training when a major reform is being carried out. But in that sense, you have to be merciful.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u139	Mr President! The Amisbarometri shows that fortunately, the majority of Finnish vocational students are satisfied with the smoothness of their studies and believe that they will be employed after their studies. However, we have reason to be concerned about the clear result that students want more local education. Unfortunately, the huge savings have led to a reduction in local education, and in the near future there will be a risk that it will decrease further next year. There is too little teaching, and yes, it is a matter of budget. If the providers of education do not have enough pay money, then there is not enough education either. Half the students are planning further studies. The quality and quantity of teaching content and teaching must enable further learning to continue as far as possible from vocational education and training. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Education: how to ensure that everyone is able to continue their studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u140	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It also showed good news, that is, students generally feel confident about their own future and see their own future and employment opportunities as good. This is good news. The new thinking that reform produces for us is, among other things, these more extensive degrees. In other words, once you have previously been identified — when the labour market changes so rapidly — that your skills become old quickly, if you are too narrowly trained, you will not be able to achieve such extensive learning skills that can also cope with the change in working life. Now, in this reform of vocational education and training, qualifications are becoming more extensive. They thus produce better skills, more extensive skills, including for the transformation of working life. And among students, also from the professional side, more and more studies are being continued at higher education level. It is an excellent development, and we are beginning to support it. It's strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u141	Mr President! Support, presence, mental health — all the things children and young people need. Unfortunately, according to the Psychological Association, hundreds of school psychologist activities are still lacking in primary and primary schools. Psychological services are part of student care, which municipalities are required to organise according to law. Psychologists would also be required for early childhood education in addition to vocational school.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u144	Mr President! First of all, when it was started on a professional basis, the government has actually improved the situation in student care by extending it to adult students with this reform. With regard to earlier levels of education, early childhood education and basic education, we are in good cooperation within the government in the ministries, STM, OKM, this Lappe project, namely the programme of change in child and family policy, which aims specifically to strengthen the multiprofessional cooperation and preventive early support, to identify, for example, learning difficulties or social problems, the need for family support and so on. And here we have progressed, in fact, even historically, in the sense that we are doing this hand in hand and the whole field of education has been brought into cooperation with the social field in a way that pleases us very much,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u145	My final supplementary question to this question, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u146	Mr President! The direction of the reform of vocational education and training to take training more to jobs is the right one. That's good. The only thing that has happened here is, I call it a run-in, that these savings of nearly 200 million were first made — this is a problem that was also identified in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on two occasions. Since then, this reform of qualifications and the financial system has now become a reality. And now we already know that in some educational institutions teachers' posts have been changed to different director posts, perhaps even because of savings. And then the question: now here are a lot of such unpredictable factors, so is the ministry now such a very up-to-date follow-up on next winter, spring, in order for immediate corrective measures to be taken
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u147	Mr President! After difficult financial years, we are heading towards better times, and that good news for the field of vocational education and training is that from the beginning of next year, those tools will become the tools for implementing vocational education and training in a new way. It involves our being able to respond not only through new types of qualifications but also after a transition period with a new funding model and new ways of working, because personalisation, to the skills needs of the future, will be better. Over the past year, we have seen the growth of the economy, including the skills needed to respond more quickly to this new vocational education and training legislation. In addition, this reform contains a number of elements that can prevent and reduce exclusion, including continuous search and so on. And yes, the Ministry will also continue to monitor this situation in the field, with this support programme seeking to respond immediately, among other things. We are working very closely and well and at the moment
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u148	Next question, Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u149	Mr President! The period of unemployment security, or so-called active model, is being pushed forward by the government, even though it received critical feedback from experts and even from the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. In practice, the model aims to cut unemployment benefit for those who are hard to employ. The idea of mobilising the unemployed is something to be welcomed in itself, but you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are doing it by squatting on the unemployed. You are under an obligation to go to work, even though there may not even be a chance for it all over Finland. And as a result, you cut unemployment benefit and take every last loaf of bread out of the unemployed table, leaving nothing but a glass of water. The proposal therefore differentiates between unemployed persons, depending on where they live in Finland. Mr Lindström, you yourself have admitted publicly that this is about forcing the unemployed, and yet you are driving the act like a snake into a gun. I'm asking if you could still vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u150	Mr President! The background to this proposal is the objective of having between 8000 and 10000 jobs. In the background, the aim is to encourage people to also take on short-term employment relationships. You said "the last loaf of bread from the unemployed." That's a bit of an exaggeration. That's what you're saying. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u151	Mr President! We have received very shocked feedback from people about this active model of unemployment security. It goes against the public's sense of justice. It cannot be that the unemployed are being punished for failing to find work. Surely this feedback has also found you, Minister Lindström. When you asked the question at the plenary session on 4 May 2017, Minister Lindström, you said: "I myself have stressed this from the beginning that it cannot be the case that we have a model and then we do not have to provide them with a) jobs or b) services. In this Chamber, I have promised and said that out loud, so it cannot be expected that if we do not have services, there will be a sanction. This is the state of my will."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just granted the speeches to the representatives Lehto and Pekonen, because they had exactly the same question. Now I ask those of you who want to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u156	Mr President! This is a question that needs to be deeply addressed. What's going on? That people are actively looking for work. They want a job, they're willing to go a long way to find a job. If it is still not found, then the government assumes that it is the fault of the unemployed and that the unemployed are punished. You have cut unemployment benefit, both levels and indices. It is already at a lower level in relation to purchasing power than in the past. Now you are going to bring in a motion that will penalise even more of these active, brisk unemployed people. You yourself, Minister Lindström, have been unemployed, know how humiliating that ark is. Do you not now have the heart to say that this did not go very well, that together we will make a sensible decision for all, draw
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u160	Mr President! It is clear that work is the best medicine for all people who are without it. Of course, I understand that the government is trying to get everyone a job, but the fact is that very many young people, especially those with disabilities, are not getting a job, no matter how many people are looking for it. In addition, this year, for example, the government cut pay subsidies so that the money ran out in the spring. In other words, those young people and those with disabilities who cannot get a job, even though they want to, have stayed home and suffered the loneliness we were talking about here today. This government measure is so contradictory. If you really want to improve employment, then make sure that you create funds and resources for municipalities so that they can take care of those most vulnerable people. I would like to ask the Minister what concrete measures you will take for next year's budget, for example with regard to pay subsidies. Will it end again in the spring when organizations begin to employ such disabled young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u161	Mr President! I'm glad you brought up this pay subsidy, Mr. Niikko. Let's go over this again. So, at the beginning of the year, we changed the practices so that unemployment benefit, the proportion paid by the state, can be used for pay subsidies, start-up grants and mobility grants.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u164	Mr President! I find this model of government sanctions particularly worrying because it targets the long-term unemployed and those who are able to work part-time. If we look at the situation that I simply cannot find work or services, but, for reasons beyond my control, unemployment benefit is being cut, we do not think it is fair in any way. But, Minister Lindström, I understand that you are also bringing additional proposals to the unemployed in connection with regional legislation in the spring: the so-called active job search model, which requires an unemployed person to apply for at least 12 jobs in three months' time, to report electronically on the Internet every week, at the risk of cargage. I find this second proposal of the law extremely worrying. I should like to ask you whether you are bringing such an additional proposal to the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u165	Mr President! It is today that a meeting has been held on this model of active job search and that model is being prepared, but nothing final is yet to be presented. Of course, in the spring we will have a discussion with the government parties, the ministers on this issue, about what kind of model could be brought into the parliament. It will then be a common government model and not a model of Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u166	The last supplementary question to this question, Mr Jaskari.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u167	Mr. Speaker! This debate has made quite a boogeyman of this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u170	Mr President! It is true that what is now being sought through the so-called growth services is that the public and private employment services, the best of them, are being brought together and will become the growth services, the new markets. If it is said that it is privatised, it is not a goal here, but a search for the best possible means for the unemployed to benefit from it on both sides. It is at the heart of this whole idea of growth services and it is of the greatest interest to me and the government. The unemployed benefit from it and, on the other hand, the person, the entrepreneur who needs the workforce, also benefits from it. Simplification of systems, the introduction of the best in both, and the decision of the employment authority will then, of course, make on these self-employed trainings. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u171	Now we can take a few more questions on the basis of one question and one answer. — Representative Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u172	Mr President, Herr Talman! Statens revisionsverk VTV publicade i dag en rapport om övervakningen av finanspolitiken. I rapporten tar VTV ställning till bland you give vård- och landskapsreformens inbesparingsmål.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u173	Mr President! This EUR 3 billion is an integral part of the Government's objective of reducing and reducing the sustainability gap of EUR 10 billion. And, in fact, the Regional Finance Act, which is already here in the Parliament's deliberations, will ensure that we get very close to that EUR 3 billion, because there is a so-called limit on cost growth. But it's just a technical matter. That means that this objective is being fulfilled, but much more important is that this reform will of course focus on the aspects of the social welfare reform which must take place there, and that is the fundamental issue, and it will then be talking about digitalisation, reducing institutional care and other, many different activities, not just one thing. But I would like to say that we will, of course, also take note of this statement by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u174	Next question, Congressman Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u175	Mr President! The question for Mr Terho: the EU is currently holding a debate on the future, and Mr Schulz, President of the German SPD, confused this with a special federal proposal prepared by non-state parties and then either approved or resigned from the Union by the Member States. In previous rounds of treaties, once they have been conducted, the overwhelming majority of Member States have been against federal structures or against such transfer of powers. My question is when you are following closely and taking part in the debate on the future: has there now been a change of direction among the Member States that would take us in this direction of Schulz, or have I missed something?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u176	Mr President! There is now an active debate on the future of the EU across Europe, and I could comment briefly on the future of it, that Europe needs realism, not federalism. This rather federalist Mr Schulz, whom you mentioned, which I myself already know from the time of the European Parliament, when he was President there, has expressed such different visions in the past, but he has all gone beyond what he had heard in the past, namely that by 25 there should be a United States of Europe and that all the unwilling countries should be moved out of it. This is quite unheard of and does not sit in the Finnish line, which is federalist and is in favour of such a pragmatic Union of trade and growth and employment, in which we are all happy to contribute to the building of prosperity. There is no such turning point in Europe and there is no prospect of sufficient support for this in Europe. Finland would be actively opposed to such proposals if they were actually taken forward in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u177	Next question, Congressman Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u178	Mr President! Now, ladies and gentlemen, after this question you can calm down, this is the last Question Time of the year, but there is still tension for a while. I've been on that job for a year, and I know the feeling you feel during these questioning hours. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u179	Is this a matter for the Environment Minister or for Minister Risiko? — Minister Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u180	Mr President! Yeah, I think it's some of these domestic things. Mr Rinne, the question of the opposition was an excellent one, and we have now all written about it to Santa that we could get it to snow. But, of course, we hope that it is only in certain places, that it does not cause congestion or cause accidents, so that the sense of safety can be preserved. It is important that it only brings such warmth and light to this earth. I would like to thank the opposition for the work you have done this year. You've been keeping us awake. Thank you for that. And, of course, in view of the future, we also wish you the endurance of the tournament, which is one of the most active governments I have ever seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u181	A supplementary question must be put to Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u182	Mr President! I would like to thank the government for this autumn and the past year. I really hope that the government will reduce activity, make better proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u183	I think that is such a good speech that it does not need an answer from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-12-14-ps-138.u184	All in all, Parliament, we are now gathering strength, it is one way to increase the resilience of the crisis. There are crises in everyone’s life, and our neighbors have many crises, helping them. And it is always remembered, as the plane says, that in order to help others, one must put an oxygen mask on one’s own face first.
