ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 8/2017, it is now decided on the basis of the opinion on the report. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There are no group statements. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. At the discretion of the Debrat, responses of 1 and 2 minutes are given. The debate on this subject will take place until 4 p.m. and, if the debate ends before 4 p.m., the next item in the order of business is paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u2	Mr President! The Government’s national climate and energy strategy includes guidelines aimed at: Finland would achieve the agreed EU energy and climate targets by 2030 and move towards the 2050 targets for a low carbon society. Finland’s long-term goal is carbon neutrality. The strategy is based on the Government Programme, and the background to the report is the report published by the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Climate Change in October 2014, the Energy and Climate Roadmap 2050, which examined various options for reducing emissions and their impact. The strategy is based on a comprehensive analysis of energy and climate policy across sectors. Three key aspects of the report's balance have been cost-effectiveness and competitiveness, sustainability from the point of view of greenhouse emissions and the environment, and the security of supply of the energy system. The Government report states that the national energy and climate strategy will be the most important policy orientation for energy and climate policy in the coming years. At the same time, it is a programme that provides a credible and clear path to achieving climate objectives. The guidelines of the report are strongly linked to the international climate agreement system and EU-level objectives. An emissions trading system working on common instruments and the internal energy market play a central role in energy and climate policy... [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : Sorry. — I would ask that we concentrate on listening to the speaker. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u5	Minister Tiilikainen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u6	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee as a whole for the fact that the report on the energy and climate strategy has received a very thorough examination in committee, and, for example, those efforts that the chairman of the committee has just described will of course be the next steps of the energy and climate strategy, i.e. when planning implementation and considering the details, as the word of the Parliament should always be taken into account. In the background of this energy and climate strategy, the historic Paris climate agreement has been reached less than a couple of years ago, in which for the first time almost all countries in the world agree on joint measures to reduce emissions so that the global average temperature does not rise by more than 2°C, we are still pursuing 1.5. The European Union's commitment to achieving the Paris Agreement was to reduce its own emissions by 40% by 2030, and in practice this energy and climate strategy now describes, sets the targets that Finland aims to achieve in order to be part of the European Union in achieving those objectives. At this point, the government, which is always far-sighted and wise, already outlined some of the key objectives in the government negotiations, which subsequently became the records of the energy and climate strategy. In other words, we already set targets in the government negotiations, such as increasing the share of renewable energy to more than 50% of final energy consumption, abandoning the use of coal for energy purposes, halving the use of oil and a very substantial increase in the bio-component of transport fuels. On the basis of these guidelines, it was possible to make an energy and climate strategy, work ahead of it and realise that these key actions bring the level of ambition that is needed to be achieved. Well, now, in the presentation by the chairman of the committee, some comments have been made on what the committee has raised in its commendable reading, and just a few quick comments on them. Indeed, for the first time, numerical targets have been set for the electrification of transport, which should at least be the number of electric cars in 2030. In practice, however, the price development of electric cars will determine the speed of that transition, and I am sure the Minister of Transport will be happy to deal with this further. The second point relates to the great importance of bioenergy in Finland's energy supply. It is now worth reviewing that, although we have a large share of renewable energy, in practice it comes in the spirit of a circular economy from the use of industrial side streams and by-products and from the use of forest management and logging by-products. It therefore expresses the concern expressed by the committee that the tree is always geared to the most valuable possible use, as it were, but it is good that it is being emphasised, because there are unfortunately other views on the subject that are going around in the public domain. In fact, the Government's key projects are already telling us this: we are investing heavily in research and development projects that increase the level of wood processing, and also those renewable energy subsidies that have been promoted by the key project funds highlight the development of a wide range of new things, such as solar power, biogas, smart electricity networks, for the future. We have a relatively constant share of hydropower and nuclear power in electricity generation, and nothing much new is going on. Smart electricity grids should be mentioned, as there is often talk of the need for control power in electricity. On the other hand, smart electricity grids enable the use of demand lines to equalise the variable production of renewable energy, and here we have excellent starting points. All we need is those operators who start offering consumers or groups of consumers the opportunity to regulate through marketing. [The President knocks ] In line with the government’s strategic objectives, we want to be the number one country in the bioeconomy, circular economy, clean solutions. Many of these issues are linked to sustainable energy production.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u7	Minister Mykkänen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u8	Mr President! As a trade minister, I also wanted to speak briefly at this point, because this is, to a very large extent, also an export strategy. This is something I have learned even more strongly now, after 70 days with companies on export trips and in Finland, of course, when we make export strategies within the government, that, on almost every single trip, a large part of the potential trades are connected to the credibility of cleantech today, the credibility of clean energy. Last night, when Saudi Arabia's Deputy Minister for Trade came here, the key issues were how we manage in Helsinki, how we deal with the environment in our technology industry products. Those references in the country have a huge impact. What does it look like to heat up in Helsinki, to produce electricity, this will have, friends, a big impact on how much of these euros will then also be exported to Finland. Already, the clean energy side is estimated at around EUR 300 billion, the global market. So if we catch 1% of it, 3 billion euros a year, it is already one of our biggest export-eating teeth alone. In this respect, I would say that it is very good that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy particularly stresses the profound understanding of putting the consumer at the heart of the matter, because the largest market for Finns is, however, there on the smart grid side, on the integration side, how to combine solar, wind, variable bio-based electricity. Great examples: A relatively small integrator named Nocart in the bay received a EUR 200 million trade in Zambia in winter, the first major transactions, Wärtsilä just acquired globally significant integrator expertise in the USA and so on. In this respect, it is clear that although we have the opportunity to move rapidly towards halving the use of fossil oil, which is a unique global situation, the world cannot rely so much on biomass, because there is not so much of it in relation to the population in the rest of the world. In this respect, in particular, this smart grid integration is what we can do for the world and where our positive handprint can easily cross its own carbon footprint in all its senses. In this respect, it is also essential on the trade side — and it is good that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy drew attention to this too — that the EU's internal market in energy is developing. We still have difficulties in Poland, for example with liquid waste-based biofuels in terms of standards, here we are working. Also, the integration of the Nordic market and, for example, the debate we are having between trade ministers on whether external free trade agreements could oblige and condition, for example, the granting of tariff preferences to emerging economies to comply with environmental agreements, thereby creating direct markets for Finnish export companies. In this respect,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u9	Secretary Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u10	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for its proposals and, above all, for its contributions. With regard to transport, the emission reduction targets are very ambitious and significant measures are also needed to achieve them. The committee proposes that steps be taken to prepare for the electrification of transport and to assess the impact of this development on the bioeconomy and the electricity market. Cost-effective measures to electrify transport in the coming years are currently being sought in the parliamentary working group on emissions reductions in transport, and the working group will present a presentation and an interim report, which will be completed on 18 August 2017. The Finnish car fleet is renewing very slowly, and the target of 250,000 electric cars recorded in the energy and climate strategy requires approximately 20% of new cars every year from 2020. While the price of an electric car so far is still about twice as high as that of a similar petrol and diesel car, this objective is ambitious, although the absolute figure seems very low. In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has proposed that we carry out a comprehensive study of the development of the electrification of transport, and this would be one of the research projects of the Prime Minister's Office next year. This project would seek new information on the future price and technology development of electric cars and more accurate estimates of their future market development. We would also like the project to cover the impact of transport electrification on Finnish business and export opportunities. In addition, the committee proposes that the cost implications for consumers, industry and competitiveness of the 30% biofuel distribution obligation set out in the strategy for further preparation be clarified. In this context, the Ministry of Transport and Communications commissioned an update from VTT in spring 2016 for the study on the different propulsion options and their gross domestic product impacts of transport. This update was completed in April 17 and can be found on the TransSmart research programme website. According to the study, the price of 100% renewable diesel would be approximately 11 to 31 cents higher with current taxes and current oil prices and biofuel production pump than fossil diesel depending on the price of the biocomponent. If renewable diesel accounted for about 40% of all diesel sold in 2030, the price of diesel would be about 10 cents higher than now. From this point of view, it would be extremely important for us to succeed in Nordic cooperation and thus give birth to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u11	We shall now take the first three speeches from the list of speakers, Mr Kari, Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Sarkkinen, and then we shall go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u12	Mr President! During the spring, a number of important issues have been discussed and decided here in Parliament. There has been talk of serious problems with social welfare reform and government training cuts. Both of these matters are shared by the government’s ignoring the experts. The good thing about these government mistakes is that many of them can be corrected by the next government. There are some things that can't be fixed. The latest data indicates a rapid warming of the climate. According to a study published a few weeks ago, the 1.5-degree warming boundary considered dangerous may be exceeded in 10 years. It can't be underestimated. Climate change is the most serious threat to humanity. If we are unable to solve climate change, things such as the sustainability gap or social welfare reform will not matter. This climate strategy leads to the conclusion that the government is realizing the importance of climate change. This is demonstrated by the objective of a ban on the use of coal. At the same time, it can be seen from the paper that the bioeconomy lobbyists have once again succeeded in their task. Yesterday, a climate panel of the best scientists in the field published a report, and the message of researchers on the climate impact of forest use is a stop-and-run. The government's planned massive logging of forests will not help in the fight against climate change. In the most bioeconomy, the government is taking Finland to a situation where net emissions do not fall for more than 10 years and large felling volumes reduce Finland's carbon sinks for decades. In practice, therefore, Finland will not reduce its emissions before the 2030s. This doesn't make any sense. With the logging increases, we are not only playing a dangerous game with the climate, but also endangering the biodiversity of Finland's forests. At the same time, the Government has cut funding for forest protection to about one third of the last government term. We are used to taking our beautiful and diverse forest nature for granted, but we can no longer afford it. Mr President! The most important question is why the Government has drawn up a climate strategy in which Finland’s net emissions will not be reduced for more than 10 years. Why have the experts been bypassed? A well-known climate researcher Johan Rockström recently published a study on what the implementation of the Paris climate agreement really means: first, the world's emissions must be halved in the 2020s, then halved in the 2030s and then once again in the 2040s. The urgency of combating climate change also applies to Finland. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be a matter of urgency for the government. While climate change is the world's greatest threat, it is also the world's greatest opportunity to combat it. For example, China’s strong efforts to reduce the use of coal and increase renewable energy have certainly not been ignored by anyone. Finland has a great opportunity to seize these sustainable solutions to reduce climate emissions. We now need solutions from the government to speed up the emergence of a lead market. That is not what this strategy offers. In the energy vision published by the Greens, the growth of renewable energy solutions is twice as fast as the Government's plan and Finland will achieve carbon neutrality as early as 2030. In the energy vision, we have also presented concrete solutions on how these objectives can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u15	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det råder ingen brist på strategistipapper. Somliga tas i beaktande, andra läggst ner på hyllan för att samla damm. Somliga är viktiga, andra försumbra. Irade the Talman! Den bull strategist's hör till den förra categorine. Klimat och energi om något är av helt avgörande betydelse när vi diskuterar framtidens utmangar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u16	Mr President! The fight against climate change is a historic responsibility of our decision-makers of this time. Combating climate change is not easy. It requires changes from us, and it requires investment from us. However, combating climate change is easier and cheaper than not doing so. If climate change cannot be stopped in time, its human and financial cost will be unbearable. The Climate and Energy Strategy is the Government's response to Finland's fight against climate change in the coming years and how Finland's energy system will be developed. In many places the strategy is a step in the right direction, but it is inadequate. The climate objectives of both Finland and the EU still need to be reviewed to meet the challenge of climate change and the commitments of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We dealt with the energy and climate strategy in a comprehensive and thorough manner in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I would like to thank the committee for its fruitful discussions and good cooperation. In its report, the committee makes important comments on the strategy. One important point relates to the use of forests. The report states that emphasising the use of forests in Finland's energy and climate policy involves risks. One risk is that climate emissions are not sufficiently reduced. According to the Government’s own estimate, Finland’s net emissions will not decrease by 2030 due to the halving of carbon sinks in forests. In addition, the increasing use of forests poses a threat to forest biodiversity. From an economic point of view too much reliance on forests is also a risk: if material wood is diverted to fuel use instead of high value-added industrial production, not only will the climate be affected, but also the economy. Building on forests also presents a political risk of a change in EU policy. The smart use of wood can be increased from the current point of view, but from the climate point of view the felling levels envisaged by the government are oversized. This has also been noted by the research community in its numerous contributions. I am pleased that these risks have now been identified and recognised in the report, and I hope that the Government will take Parliament's attention seriously in its future policy. Mr President! We need big changes in our energy system. We need to increase non-emission sources of energy and reduce the use of fossil fuels. The decision to give up coal is the right one, but it is not enough. For example, the tax subsidies for peat must be gradually reduced. In order to create new emission-free energy production capacity, we still need a renewable energy support system. A new support mechanism based on competition must be prepared as soon as possible and brought to the decision of Parliament this year. Unfortunately, European emissions trading is not working as desired, so we need a national policy to bring about an energy transition in the coming years. The key to the future energy system is flexibility and diversification. I hope that the Smart Networks Working Group will soon complete its work and that the energy system will be effectively reformed in an intelligent and demand-enhancing direction. Unfortunately, the strategy has little incentive to promote small-scale decentralised energy production. In decentralised and variable energy production, demand flexibility and storage technologies will take a key role. Hopefully, we could also develop new openings related to storage, such as a pump power plant designed for Pyhäsalmi’s closing mine. Mr President! One problem with the strategy is the strong focus on biofuels in transport. The committee also draws attention to the fact that the rest of the world is moving rapidly towards the electrification of transport, so we in Finland cannot rely solely on biofuels in transport. Finnish passenger car traffic will also be electrified, wanted or not — and hopefully will be. In the future, passenger transport will be electrically oriented and heavy traffic will operate on bio-based fuels. Unfortunately, the strategy lacks measures to accelerate change and the objectives of electrification of transport are modest. There is now a need for concrete measures, such as a reduction in the price of electric cars through tax incentives and the development of charging infrastructure for electric cars. Electric cars can also play a major role in adjusting the energy efficiency balance in the future. Mr President! Most of the emissions are generated by transport, housing, food. Unfortunately, the focus on housing and food in the strategy is too low, and I hope that these sectors will also be given more emphasis in the preparation and implementation process.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u17	Now is the opportunity to ask for answers by pressing the P button. We will start the first round with two-minute replies, and in the first round I will put the emphasis on the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u18	Mr President! Firstly, on behalf of the SDP, we must thank the government for its good cooperation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I am proud of the fact that we were able to reach a report with almost unanimous approval on such a big issue. It is in Finnish that we look very together towards the future, and thank you very much for that. But of course, when the targets are as ambitious as they are, I would like to highlight how we in Finland are prepared to commit ourselves to this strategy and how we can commit them to this strategy and how urban ownership policy, economic policy more broadly assumes that these ambitious objectives will be achieved and achieved. Urban policy plays a key role here, as we know. This is not just a transport issue; it is also a wider issue of urban planning and so on. Mr President! At the same time, as I said, we are laying the foundations for the coming decades and, as the Minister for Trade said, this report is, to a very large extent, the basis on which we are going to export in the future. You mentioned, Mr Mykkänen, that the world's circular economy, cleantech, is growing and is already a business of hundreds of billions. What if we could get one percent of it? But that saying is that there's a "if" in it. What measures are you going to take, Minister, to really get us involved in this growth in the international cleantech and circular economy? And another question for Minister Lintilä, who is responsible for corporate governance: will you now use the state as owner guidance?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u19	Mr President! In the same way, we also want to thank the entire Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and also the opposition groups for a very constructive debate, with almost unanimous views. I myself was in Bratislava a few months ago, there was a meeting of energy ministers and similar committees, and there was a great deal of talk about the EU winter package. It was quite interesting to hear in the sense that it is looking at what is actually already being done here in Finland. So, in connection with that export strategy again: we already have quite a lot of finished technology, know-how, concept ready. But one important thing is that we really should not hear what the EU is going to be, but that we should, in a certain way, feed those issues to the EU side as to what will be the future climate and energy issues and the ideas of clean energy in the EU. But for that we may need a broader Nordic perspective. And now we have a report coming from Jorma Ollila, which seems that the Nordic energy and climate strategy is still very national, too national. I would have asked whether there is any change in this event and what the Ministers are doing in that respect at the moment. Consider, for example, the biofuels that ministers used as an example: if there was a Nordic market, it would immediately change the situation, increase efficiency, lower prices, increase use, the same thing with these decentralised energy production methods and smart grids. What measures are you taking to ensure that perhaps we would have a unified market in the Nordic countries and a more coherent policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u20	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for an excellent debate. It was actually the best conversation I have had over the last two years, where we tried to understand each other's starting points, the point of entry. It was very close for me not to object. Concerns have to do with bioenergy, its investments. I am genuinely afraid that we will be betting on the wrong horse, which will come back at some point — not to mention how it will affect our emissions in the longer term. At the same time, however, I would like to emphasise that the level of ambition in the committee has risen with noise. If we compare our views on energy policy a year ago, not to mention two years ago, we have come a long way. This work should continue. At this stage, while the debate is still in its infancy, I would like to remind you why we are dealing with these issues. We are talking about emissions that speed up climate change, which are guaranteed to have major, unpredictable and unpleasant consequences. We are playing with such a serious issue that it is a matter of preserving the very existence of civilization. If there is a sudden drought in areas where people depend on food being produced, troubles arise and wars arise. People don't stay where they are to die, they move. If we look back on what happened two years ago in Europe when a couple of million people came here, we will not get away with it if there are more. Our system doesn't hold together. We can't afford to play with this. At the same time as climate change is the greatest threat of our time, it is also the biggest business opportunity of our time. Instead of worrying about what it costs to do something, we should be more concerned about what opportunities we will not take advantage of if we do not raise the level of ambition at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u21	Mr President! It is easy to share the serious concern that Mr Vartia has raised here in his speech. The fight against climate change is a common task for all of us, and in that sense I am very pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was able to reach an almost unanimous result in that reading and in its report. There was one objection, a protest from the Greens, and it is a pity that we were not able to form a common line at the moment. But this tells us that all Finnish parties are concerned that we can stop climate change and that Finland is involved in these efforts. Even this government proposal, the climate and energy policy strategy, assumes responsibility. Our objectives are very ambitious in this regard. When you look at the Greens' protest, it is particularly pointed out that our objective should be even more ambitious in reducing emissions. It refers to a study carried out by Sitra, which states that Finland could set a reduction target of 60% compared to 90. After all, this Sitra study is based on the Climate Analytics study, and this particular community, which has done this study, assumes that we will be able to reduce emissions precisely by increasing the use of biomass. They argue that the use of biomass will be increased even more than is now being proposed by the government and, in the same protest, the Greens are opposed to increasing the current use of biomass. I think this is a pretty big contradiction. In other words, we should at the same time set out the means, the realistic means, rather than setting conflicting targets. If you look at the research to which Sitra relies on these goals and what your objection points to, you would have to use it in 2030.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u22	Mr President! This report is one of those documents for which it is easy to be on the same lines with the government in general. The strategy has also identified the importance and export potential of energy technology innovations. Global investments may well exceed EUR 1000 billion in 2030, and Finland has a good chance of catching a very large piece of this cake, as many have said well. I very much hope that this will also be recognised and that this opportunity and potential will be widely taken into account in various contexts and reforms. It occurred to me from this urban policy that, for example, the energy education strategy created by the town of Vaasa, together with the energy cluster companies, aims to increase interest in the energy sector from young children to young children, through the whole educational path, to the fact that some of our law students, for example, focus on energy law. All infrastructure investments are also carried out with intelligent energy innovations. Ministers, on the basis of the energy and climate strategy, is there perhaps a more comprehensive and in-depth plan at national level for promoting investment and exports in the sector, as Mr Skinner also asked, given the export potential of hundreds of billions? Finally, I would just like to say for myself that I really hope that Finland will actively promote the development of a common Nordic energy and climate strategy. It would be nice to hear that worthy ministers have something to say about this, either about the state of will in other Nordic countries or perhaps even about the timetable when we could have a common Nordic energy and climate strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u23	Mr President! This is where a number of representatives – Vartia, Skinner, Jaskari, Salmon and Strand – reported on the spirit of the report in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. In my opinion, it was a constructive and good spirit. Yes, in committee we were meant to reach a solution that would have been unanimous. However, I feel that this climate and energy strategy, which has now been adopted by the Government, is a continuum, or actually is actually within what the parliamentary Committee on Energy and Climate Change, set up by Vapaavuori during the previous parliamentary term, worked on: energy and climate policy 2050. And when I look back on it, yes, Vapaavuori told me a couple of times that sit down and do this together. In a somewhat similar spirit, this was also discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The end result, however, is that ten boosts have been attached to this. This Government strategy is actually a good one, but if you read this report carefully, then we are actually taking a position in this report on issues that are missing from that strategy. Then, however, we share quite a lot of our own opinions. In conclusion, I myself think that the energy and climate strategy that the Government has adopted is a good one, but as a committee we have wanted to express views on it, and quite a lot of those diverse views. However, given that we various parties sit a lot there in the Committee on Economic Affairs and everyone wants to leave their thumbs on this report, ten boosts were made. Since I've been accused of being a pony factory lately, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u24	Mr President! Minister Mykkänen mentioned in his speech the importance of making export strategies and promoting exports, among other things, how Helsinki, the capital of Finland, manages energy issues and heats up. This is very nice to hear. Surely you know our latest policy, in which Helsinki wants to get rid of Fennovoima, because we see it as a risk to our taxpayers. Helsinki has investments in Fennovoima as a minority shareholder in Vantaa Energy, and we are now trying to get rid of these. Hopefully, other municipal energy companies will also follow in this wise decision. Mr President! When you listen to these complimentary speeches about this government strategy, I wondered for a moment whether I have read the wrong paper. As has been said here, climate change is our greatest threat, it is a problem that we have no choice in resolving. We've got to do it. And that is why we cannot praise and thank this strategy if we recognise this problem. The government plans to increase the use of forests so much that it is a problem. It contradicts our climate objectives. Several researchers, the most recent climate panel, have provided so much research that it shows that the increased use of forests is not sustainable; on the contrary, it halves our carbon sink and thus does not help us in the fight against climate change. In my opinion, it is quite absurd to bang on the suspenders here by deciding to abandon coal, while at the same time promoting peat use, the climate effects of which are even worse than coal. Mr President! It has become clear that the policy of this government is to bypass the views of experts and to study the information. But the moment of fate is now at stake in the fight against climate change. Many decisions can be changed by policy action in the next period, but here are the moments of fate at hand. There is no room for action in accordance with the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u27	Mr President! I was a little surprised at Mr Modig's departure when Mr Sarkkinen was involved in the committee in this joint report. I myself was unable to be at the crucial reading as an alternate, but I must say that a very good piece of work has been done in committee. Bioenergy is very strongly involved here. Perhaps one of these negatives would be that, in terms of transport fuels, I do not think that the increase in transport biogas has been quite strongly raised. Although electric motoring plays a very strong role in this strategy, it must be borne in mind that the production of transport biogas on farms would, however, lead to better life-cycle effects than electric motoring. If we consider that we have that biomass there anyway, there is manure, there is straw, protection zone grass, lakes vegetation and so on, they would in any case rot in the wild and thus produce greenhouse gas emissions. In my opinion, this government proposal lacks such a vision of how these 50,000 biogas cars presented will then be fueled. After all, we have this egg-chicken problem, which means that we do not have gas cars, because we have not invested in these refuelling points, and we do not invest in refuelling points if we do not get the sale of gas cars started. In several proposals, the Christian Democrats have pointed out that there should be changes in the taxation of biogas cars. But it seems that they are not progressing. These similar proposals have come from the Biogas Association in their opinion, such as the abolition or reduction of the power tax and the consideration of low emissions in vehicle tax and car tax. I would have asked the Minister, or both of you here, whether these changes to these vehicle taxes would not be necessary in order to put an end to this problem of egg-chicken?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u28	I would like to give one last two-minute response to the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u29	Mr President! Firstly, for Mr Salmon, when Mr Salmon felt that the stricter emission reduction rate proposed by Sitra would mean an even stronger use of wood-based energy: Yes, at least the opinion received by Sitra's Committee on the Environment states that the very strong use of forest-based energy in accordance with the Government's energy policy involves both a political, legal and climate- and biodiversity risk. In other words, Sitra also criticises this strong emphasis on bioenergy. But, Mr President, I welcome the fact that Minister Tiilikainen left where he had to go, namely the Paris climate agreement. However, I would also like the government to take seriously the recognition contained in the Paris climate agreement that the emission reduction targets given by the countries of the world, including the EU and Finland, in the context of the Paris agreement are not enough to limit climate change to less than 2°C, let alone 1.5°C, which means that we all need to tighten up our climate targets. This is what the government has been silent about so far. Mr Mykkänen rightly said that there is considerable export potential. Now the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its report, which is better than this government report, notes that areas of particular importance for export and investment potential are the intelligent energy system, transport solutions, energy storage and energy efficiency. However, these are not very much in the government's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u30	Now we move on to the 1-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u31	Mr President! A very good result has been achieved here. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was almost unanimous and, as Mr Skinner described, we worked very well together. For that too, I would like to thank all the members of the committee. Finland is currently living in search time. Never in the history of Finland have we received such a vast, rich supply of raw materials as the forests of Finland today are. The talk that we are doing some damage to the forests of Finland is not true. There are researchers in this country who believe that there should not be a single piece of pot in this country, or that it will be an immediate disaster. There's always one train car full of those scientists at any time. We'll find those docents. But that important observation must be made that the use of forests in Finland has been on a sustainable basis and we have an enormously fine system. Let it be the logging of forests, the forestry industry, the production of chemicals, the metal industry — we all know how. And this intimidation of the Greens: look at your coal policy here in Helsinki and then learn something about this renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u32	Mr President! The fact that climate change is a very great threat not only to the planet but also to humanity as a whole has been very widely recognised here so far in this debate. And when I have been able to follow this climate debate in this house for almost a decade, it can be said that progress has been made in this regard, and this, of course, gives rise to the hope that we political decision-makers will also recognise this threat. However, I would like to ask the ministers again perhaps to clarify the political and economic risks associated with bioenergy and also with nuclear power. That is something you, Ministers, did not understandably take too much of a stand on in your brief speeches. The risks associated with bioenergy have been mentioned in the opinions of many committees and also in that report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, but the economic and environmental impact of nuclear power in that strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u33	Mr President! 90% of emissions from domestic transport are generated by road transport and 58% by passenger car transport. In part, passenger car traffic can be replaced by walking and cycling in urban areas, and in this respect the strategy aims to increase by 30%, which is a good line. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we drew attention to the fact that no concrete measures were proposed in the strategy for cycling, of course not everything can be presented in one paper. But now I would like to ask the ministers — at least Minister Mykkänen specialises in cycling: would there be some concrete ways, for example, to take city cycling to urban areas other than Helsinki and Espoo and increase the share of cycling in local transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u34	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen pointed out that there is a strong investment in research, but I must say that the government's actions, the fact that: The research funding of the Natural Resources Agency has been drastically cut, they speak quite differently, and for the Academy, no research has yet been opened up to this sector, which would support the government's bioeconomy projects. But I would like to encourage the government to do so, and even in this report we lack how we create the references we sell to the world. We have innovations, as Mr Jaskari has demonstrated here, but where is the fund, the venture capital fund, which produces an industrial product and creates a market for it? We're short of reference, risk finance. We need to put the balance sheet to work, which the Prime Minister also dreams of, but it still does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u35	I will give you the answers to the representatives of Hongisto and Niinistö. Then the Minister's reply, and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u36	Mr President! In Finland, forests are a very large carbon sink. Forests in the main harvest age have already tied up their coals, and when these trees that have ceased to grow are cut down, they are made boards and even houses are built, so the coal is not released into circulation but remains in the structure of the house. We all know and acknowledge this. This is why concrete measures are needed to support the construction of wood, so that the share of wood in the construction can be translated into clear growth. The building permits and planning regulations must take better account of the construction of wood, especially log construction, as a well-storaged and healthy log house binds coal to itself for a few hundred years. Mr President! That is why I call on the good government to continue its efforts to remove barriers to timber construction and to facilitate building regulations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u37	Mr President! I'm confused. I believe that this strategy and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy represent putting its head in the sand. There has clearly been progress in how Minister Mykkänen and Minister Tiilikainen and the rest of Parliament, for example, talk about the situation picture. Identify this massive need for economic change so that we can save humanity prosperity and economic activity without global warming devastatingly altering our living conditions so that the economic system collapses. But then you don't do anything about it. This is like this kind of wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee. And the only thing that is done on top of it is harmful — that is, the massive addition of forest fellings in a way that scientists say unanimously, as the climate panel report shows, that these giant fellings will nullify our emission reduction measures until the 2030s.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u38	Minister Lintilä, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u39	Mr President! I can start with that comment by Mrs Niinistö that we should only make the minimum. I presented our strategy at the Energy Council in Brussels, where it was considered to be a very brave and a pioneer throughout Europe. So, yes, the attitude was exactly the opposite of what you said. The representative, Mr Skinner, asked whether the State Development Company could be used to support this strategy financially. Government strategies can be supported through a state development company. It acts as a tool for active social renewal, that is to say, it is possible to use it, but, of course, decisions are always made on a case-by-case basis in this regard. Congressman Myllykoski talked about hedge funds. We have mapped out very carefully our fund situations, which are the bottlenecks in business, and we have tried to fill them, to search for elements. We are currently, among other things, in the process of preparing a couple of funds aimed at bringing this share of risk into these investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u40	Secretary Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for this very factual and commendable debate and for the almost unanimous agreement that has been achieved. Representative Vartia described the problem exactly as it is: it is really about the future of mankind, that is, where there is enough food and water for people on this limited earth. Very good. Well, the answer to climate change is due to the massive use of fossil fuels, which continues and is growing worldwide today. Then the question-setting and the search for answers and the solutions are based on the fact that we cannot simply choose what would happen to each of us, but we need all the means to reduce emissions quickly, and we need to get rid of fossils. Mr Skinner spoke well about this: it is not just the will of the government and parliament that is enough, but the commitment of the cities is extremely important. This is very important, for example, when coal is removed and political guidance is needed. Unfortunately, progress last year went a little wrong. But then they asked about this Nordic cooperation. It's really the kind of thing we should do. In fact, when I threw that goal that Finland could be climate neutral in 2045, it is Sweden that has exactly the same content, and I believe that Norway has no problem with this. In other words, we need this objective and then we need concrete measures, for example in the transport sector, in the smart electricity grid. Then to this increase in biogas and to transport: key projects will support biogas projects and also energy subsidies, which is to say it is heading for transport, that is to say, good. But here came the comments from some other representatives than the members of the committee that science has been forgotten. You, ladies and gentlemen, who have just referred to the climate panel, are quite wrong to refer to the climate panel. I didn't see you listening to the climate panel presentation yesterday, I was there. I have had a close dialogue with the scientific community throughout my ministry. We have no conflict with the climate panel.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u45	Minister Mykkänen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u46	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Skinner asked a good question: how can we proceed now to achieve at least 1% of the EUR 300 billion clean energy market? After all, the key question here is that we need more sales and marketing capacity for Finnish companies. This is at the heart of the Business Finland reform, which combines Finpro and Tekes, and the intention is that no Tekes project will end with the fact that there is a world's best bull in Otaniemi, but that it will end with being taken to the final customer in Dubai or Myanmar. Of course, Lintilä will be more specific about that. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself is concerned, I am going through the fact that the ambassadors are taking the role of country leader in the practical work of promoting exports, we are strengthening the contribution of its work to our network of representations — this is, of course, a long-term cultural change, but a few steps to Denmark. In February, we launched a so-called national aid instrument for investment in developing countries, in which, for example, a wave energy project in a poor developing country can receive 50% subsidy money, an interest subsidy credit on the other side, and, as a result, dozens of projects are already under way through this first round. Finnfund’s resources have been increased, and Finnfund’s largest wind farm, such as the East African wind farm, was opened, and just recently 20 percent increase in Kenya’s energy production without fossils, a shop window for the whole of Africa, and there also Finnish equipment suppliers, system suppliers, have a role to play, as in Finnfund’s projects mainly always. The other side is, of course, the need for the market leading up, the market for reference which many people have referred to here, Mr Modig and many others. In this respect, it is really crucial that, for example, the transition from genuine coal in Helsinki takes place quickly, and in this respect the previous governments have not set a clear objective, but this government is, and it is important that we move forward quickly. Also in consumer speeches, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u47	Secretary Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u48	Mr President! I would like to comment on a few questions. As the minister responsible for Nordic cooperation, I have actively held a debate at the Nordic Council of Ministers on how we can emphasise cooperation on energy and transport. In these circumstances, the Ministers of Transport and/or Energy met in Finland in February, and we will now continue to communicate in the autumn. In the meantime, officials will continue to prepare for this. Early in the week, Nordic prime ministers will meet and Nordic co-operation ministers will meet under Midsummer. Our topics are the digital single market, energy cooperation and then, specifically, the discovery of a common market for biofuels. From a transport policy point of view, we also want to be active in relation to corporate governance and also to set more precise, comprehensive criteria on how state-owned companies can respond more widely to societal challenges. On Monday, Finland’s first electric ferry will be baptized, and it will take off to operate. These different requirements, the objectives from the perspective of transport policy, we want to set more stringent targets in the future. The parliamentary group is currently working, and it will then have to pay for the taxation of transport. From that point of view, too, we will certainly return to this debate before the budget debate when the parliamentary group gives its interim report. With regard to cycling and walking, in this strategy we have set a target of 30% for raising performances. Well, it does not happen without investments, and so we have set up a walking and cycling promotion project at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which dates from 18 to 22. It now starts with a round table on 20 June, with a wide range of parties involved, and we will identify the measures that we can and can therefore commit to, including what amounts of euro may be involved and how we can link this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u49	All right, then we'll take the next debut round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u50	Mr President! The energy and climate strategy is a truly diverse presentation of various actions and opportunities that we can do to combat climate change. It was actually published last autumn, and I think this opinion from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs brings it at this time, because this energy transition and change in the sector are so great that it really needs to be updated all the time. Sitra has already been referred to here a few times. Sitra has also compiled 15 Nordic climate solutions that the world could reduce emissions by 4 gigatonnes by 2030. That is as much as the total EU countries are producing emissions at the moment. I look forward to this Ollila report, which is about to be completed, and I ask: do we have a joint technology testing platform in the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u51	Mr President! In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and other events, I have tried to find out from experts why these CHP plants are in a way being driven down in Finland and, in Central Europe, plants with the best efficiency are being built, with an efficiency ratio of up to 95% in the best situation. The reasons for this are the low electricity price due to shale gas and Finland's tax policy, or district heat and building energy efficiency. Minister, do you have clear facts as to why the activities of the institutions with the best efficiency are being driven down, and what should be done? Or is there a solution to this report now? Even in these different ponies, that's where it's hidden. How do you see this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u52	Mr President! I am a little surprised at Mr Tiilikainen's contrast with the fact that there is no desire to analyse in any way the risks that are too strong for the bioeconomy and biofuels, bioenergy. By this I mean not only the adequacy of sinks or the use of material wood for biofuels, but also the political risks that we may face, for example, with regard to the new regulatory environment. Minister Berner also referred to that parliamentary transport group, and when such an ambitious objective has been set for transport and certainly fuel technology and the use of fuels will play an important role, it is absolutely necessary to consider what risks these biofuels may entail. In parallel, other options must also be developed with great determination. Of course, when it comes to transport, electricity is the key factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u53	Mr President! It is great that attention has already been paid here to the importance of walking and cycling, and it was wonderful to hear that we are about to start parliamentary work on this. Urban environments play an important role in reducing climate emissions, and walking and cycling also certainly have the greatest potential for increase. I would like to draw attention to a few points raised during the hearing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and one of them was knowledge. Now that renewable energy, such as solar panels and solar energy, is significantly increasing, there is a certain concern that knowledge cannot be kept up. I hope that this issue can also be taken into account in education policy and otherwise in the knowledge of companies, because at this rate, as solar energy is growing, and it will grow regardless of policy measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u54	Mr President! As the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also points out, developing energy technologies also enable Finland to produce new export products and jobs. For example, Finnish solar technology companies abroad have multiple opportunities compared to the domestic market. There is also global demand for waste-using circular economy solutions, smart energy saving solutions for industry and real estate, sharing economy-related consumer services and AI-related know-how. An excellent example of Finnish cleantech expertise is photonics, which has application areas in solar cells, energy-saving LED lights, self-controlled cars and modern indoor farming. Finland has an internationally significant focus on photonics, which should now be strengthened. Has the Ministry realised the growing export potential of the photonics sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u55	Mr President! The answer to this backsliding is that it is not enough to understand that climate change is taking place in the world. It can't be that we're enlightened, we're smart, and then we don't do enough. It is an even greater sin to understand how serious a change the whole world is facing and then not be ready for action. I would like to bring these concrete examples of what should be done more: Compared to Sweden and Norway, these countries are pioneers in many areas: Norway in electric cars and Sweden in the introduction of modern renewable energy and public transport investment. So now we need investment in public transport, the electric car infrastructure. I want to know what you're doing with it. Eliminating environmentally harmful tax subsidies: a major renovation if taxation directs the economy in a clean direction instead of maintaining the old business structure. In addition to this, consideration should be given to the stronger take-up of the auction system and the faster introduction of renewable energy, which is twice as fast for green as the government model. So when the auction system comes into operation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u56	Mr President! It is very important that Finland’s energy and climate policy relies on decentralised energy production. It would be very dangerous to rely only on atomic power or fossil fuels, there must be a wide range of renewable energies, and they will be very strongly promoted in this strategy. In particular, we have the potential to promote solar, wind and bio-based forms of energy, where the circular economy is at the heart of the economy, to put sludges, manures, waste and wood by-products into energy. Decentralised energy production ensures the degree of domesticity for us, that there is work and livelihood for the whole of Finland, and that imported energy is gradually removed. Security of supply is one of the key factors that, in times of crisis, it is domestic production energy that responds to the fact that security of supply works.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u57	Mr President! I would like to re-examine a little of the Arctic dimension in the debate. I would like to ask the ministers: Is the Government's energy and climate strategy intended to take advantage of this two-year Arctic Presidency of Finland? I believe that we would have the ability and strengths to promote international trade and our own exports, particularly in the area of environmental technology, especially in relation to Russian black coal. I know that sanctions limit the activities of EU financial institutions to some extent in this respect too. I hope, therefore, that if sanctions are lifted somewhere, this is the sector from which they would be removed first, because the environment is not waiting. I'd really like to ask if there's any idea of leadership of this type.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u58	Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has indeed now produced a report which is largely good and which has recognised the problems of the government's strategy. We in Parliament cannot now change the government's strategy, but we are now dealing specifically with the report and its contribution. The committee's report also highlights the problems that have arisen here in the debate with regard to the risks associated with the use of bioenergy, the level of ambition and the need for electrification of transport, as well as other issues and shortcomings that have arisen and what is in the government's strategy. I hope that the government will take note of the issues raised by the committee and develop policy forwards. I hope everyone here will read this committee's report. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: do you see to it that the Government's forestry policy is coordinated to match researchers' claims and the final results of researchers in such a way that emissions can be netly reduced before 2030?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u59	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for a good It is precisely a forward-looking one. This has become a good topic, but one topic that would also require even more lifting has been built, because buildings, up to 38% of Finland's greenhouse gas emissions and final energy consumption, account for a significant proportion of Finland's greenhouse gas emissions. With regard to the strategy, the guidelines are acceptable and far-reaching. Among other things, we talk about improving energy efficiency in renovation construction, promoting wood construction and improving the material efficiency of construction. But for these guidelines on the use of sites: As has already been said here, urban policy and agreements between municipalities, cities and the state play a very important role. I would like to ask the ministers how this issue will be taken into account in the legislation in preparation, and what measures the government will take in the field of urban policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u60	Mr President! A wooden building will control climate change throughout its life. The carbon footprint of buildings is an important factor in mitigating climate change. However, the equation of zero-energy buildings and wood construction is difficult, as it is not worth turning a wooden building into an uninhaled bottle. The conflict threatens the development of public wood construction. In connection with this, indoor air problems in schools and kindergartens have exploded into our hands with an expensive bill. Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen, will the government strongly encourage high-quality public timber construction in order to prevent indoor air problems and also to curb climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u61	Mr President! Indeed, the energy and climate strategy is important and this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been successful. Firstly, decentralised energy production is important not only for climate reasons but also for security of supply. Secondly, Finland also has export opportunities in the area of renewable energy innovations. As far as transport is concerned, of course these alternative fuels and the promotion of their use are important for climate reasons. The Bundesrat in Germany has recommended that the production of cars using internal combustion engines should be stopped by 2030. However, the importance of biogas for Finland's rural areas is highlighted, and good if it is supported in the future. In fact, the electric car market is indeed moving from the experimental phase of technology to a wider use. Now, of course, there is only a problem — when we cannot prevent movement — with the extent of the charging network. When I drive myself to Lapland, for example, if I go in an electric car, I have to load four times between time and time, and this technology of course [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u62	Mr President! Did Mr Salmon already ask for a reply to Mr Vartia? [Laughter] For Mr Tiilikainen: The risk associated with these bioenergy inputs is that, in the light of the latest information, biofuels will increase climate emissions in the short term, and we cannot afford them. I myself have once spoken in favour of the use of bioenergy, and Greenpeace has spoken in favour of it. But in the light of the latest information, they increase climate emissions because their sinks shrink. If sinks shrink, it means an increase in emissions, and the risk for Finland is that if, for example, regulation in the EU becomes more stringent when these issues are recognised more widely, Finland may be in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u63	Mr President! We have to adjust these incredible scenarios, as Mr Vartia, for example, put forward — a representative that I have a high regard for, by the way. It should be acknowledged, however, that when Finland fell out of World War II at the time, the growth of forests was about 50 million mots. Now, because of forest management measures, we have more forest land than ever, an increase in forests of 105 million mots. And if we take care of those forest losses, thinning down on time, we'll have between 135 and 145 million mots a year in forest growth. Do you think the carbon sink is growing or isn't it? My math says it's growing. You can always cultivate horror scenarios and all kinds of things, but these are the figures. They won't change anything, even if we flip. Second thing, this use of coal. The use of coal in the world increases as much as Finland uses renewable energy less hydropower. There will be more coal every year. Even if we jump in tar and feathers, this won't change anything. Let's do our own thing properly, and let's leave those coal users alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u64	I will give Mr Modig and Mr Jaskar the answers, and then the Minister the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u65	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, the time interval is precisely the problem, precisely what Mr Vartia was talking about here. Understand something, the center cuts education so happily, you have no respect for research. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u66	Mr President! When you listen to the conversation, this is mostly very constructive and very clear and forward-looking. It is just like this strategy and also this report, because it is very concrete at the moment. We are making concrete steps forward, and I would like us to have a debate on that specificity, because if we do that too, we have made considerable progress and certainly have played a significant role. It is good if we are still able to act in such a way that we also have such products and services, concepts that it is possible to do so on the export side. But one question for worthy ministers: We've got to get some more speed. For example, there was talk of a specific fund and development funds. Some countries have made such a low-carbon fund, for example. Those who pollute will pay for the fund, but they will then be able to apply for projects that develop new cleantech patterns that would support themselves in a certain way. There have been very good experiences, and that's how I'm going to ask if it's still possible to tune this up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u67	Minister Tiilikainen will begin, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u68	Mr President! Thank you for your good and many comments. I am not going to go through a name by name individually, but in the case of the Greens I have to make a few comments now. Here Mr Niinistö said that it is good that we have understood how serious climate change is, but where the action is. The current climate targets for the Government and Finland, which extend until 2020, have been decided during the Vanhanen Government. Now it's the first time they've been blackmailed. This is where the Greens stopped by the government, but not a single climate target was tightened up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u73	That was the time for Minister Tiilikainen. — Minister Mykkänen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u74	Mr President! It is very good that there is a proper and correct debate. In this regard, in particular, Mr Elovaara drew attention to this Arctic exports, when exports were already discussed in the broader context, and indeed the promotion of low-carbon solutions in the Arctic region has already been included at the heart of the strategy of the Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council, and in fact Foreign Minister Soini and his team did good work at the Ministerial Conference in Alaska, where the Paris climate commitment was also included in the joint declaration, so that the US Foreign Minister was involved. It was not self-evident, but it was a very good victory for the first years of our Presidency, and hopefully it will continue to do so. We have also taken initiative in banning the use of heavy fuel oil, as Mr Elovaara pointed out a little bit, and in a week's time, when I meet with the Vice-President of the Kozak Economic Commission, this issue will again be on the agenda. Fortunately, these mechanisms for cross-border cooperation are available, even though other funding is affected by EU sanctions. Here Mr Niinistö referred to environmentally harmful tax subsidies and to the type of exports we particularly support. This government has had a serious review of trade subsidies, particularly in the direction of aid towards a more innovative direction. This exercise continues. As stated in the statement on the spending limits, the intention is to be able to take decisions already in the budget debate, and these tax subsidies in particular are at the heart of this. I am convinced that we have a consensus that subsidies in themselves are needed but should be directed towards a more innovative direction. An important debate on the sustainability of biomass use. I will not take the position in itself that the optimal level of perennial additional growth is certainly a problematic issue, but I would also point out that only less than 5% of our 2030 growth rate, however, would be linked to the biofuel increase. There is talk of relatively small quantities, between 3 and 4 million solid cubes, of an excess of 80 million solid cubics, which in the end is the number of pulped trees, the number of other wood-using industries, and this is more to the side of the margin of error. If, because of that margin of error, we were to miss out on the exceptional opportunity to replace half the fossil oil in the first Western country of the world, I think that would be an extraordinary solution. In this respect, this is much broader than the question of the energy use of biomass alone. Fourthly, Mr Jaskari drew attention to an important issue, namely financing. It is good to look at a separate fund as such, but what is essential is that we have already directed EUR 100 million in the government programme for the construction of clean energy, specifically export demonstration plants, now in the spending limits debate, four times EUR 25 million more, which is then also linked to transport strategies. In the previous speech, I presented our new form of interest subsidy credit for clean investments in developing countries. Together with the World Bank, IFC, we are opening our own Finland window of more than EUR 100 million, and we have strengthened Finnfund's resources, which have already brought results to finance investments in clean energy by Finnish companies. In other words, we are trying to do so, and this is where we will be happy to seek additional measures with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the other active ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u75	Is there any more desire to continue the debate? — Apparently. So let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u76	Mr President! To the representatives Vartia, Modig and a few others: the report published yesterday or the day before yesterday by experts actually says this: "The increase in felling and logging will reduce the carbon sink and carbon stock of forests in Finland for at least decades forward in comparison to the situation where they will not be increased." So, of course, if we do not increase fellings, the carbon sink and the carbon stock in forests would grow faster than if we added some fellings, but even after these increased fellings, the carbon stock in forests will increase very significantly with the figures that have been decided upon. I spoke to two professors whose names are on the paper that was published yesterday, Professor Airaksinen and Professor Seppälä. We went over this and asked how to interpret it: as I said earlier or in some other way, so that the throat would be reduced? Of course not.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u77	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen criticised the representatives for not having attended yesterday's climate panel. At least the Committee on the Environment has heard and I believe that other committees have heard, at different stages, representatives of the climate panel. Already after the Paris meeting, Professor Ollikainen, Chairman of the Climate Panel, pointed out that the current plans for increasing felling reduce the carbon sink of Finnish forests for several decades. There has also been mention of the Helsingin Sanomat yesterday. It also states that the cooperation organisation of European scientific academies has come to the same conclusion, namely that the so-called bioeconomy involves very high risks for the climate. In other words, it is still my conclusion that, from the point of view of both the climate and the economy and operational security, a stronger orientation towards other, more recent forms of renewable energy than bioenergy would be wise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u78	Madam President! I would now like to say that I want to shed light on the blind point of Mr Mykkänen. So it is that if after the Tekes project there's that bull, then it's an innovation. It's not being taken, it's being sold, it's giving up ownership when it's being exported. There must be a production plant where it is manufactured, or talented projects around it, so that the product can be manufactured abroad. This is the question of the lack of the post-finance growth fund for Tekes, from which these Finnish innovations and things funded by Tekes can be bounced. That is why I have hoped that, for example, the assets of our large Senate properties would be used as collateral for the debt, which means that it is not a sovereign debt, and this would create a risk fund that could take risks so that these innovations after Tekes could become productive and create industrial jobs in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u79	Madam President! One thing I think is too little attention, and that is that for the first time in a long time, Finland has the opportunity to create jobs in areas other than large growth centres, genuinely create new jobs for the bioeconomy, whether in northern Finland or in eastern Finland or in any central Finland where forests grow well. This has caused precisely the opposition to the desire to move everything south here and not to see the possibility that this industry can be carried out elsewhere. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of the Finnish forest industry is guaranteed to be outside this city and this province — an overwhelming majority. What is the guarantee that we do not give the possibility of positive growth in the provinces, but of making all sorts of artificial obstacles to it? When is the climate panel's comment and when is one going to come up with an idea that these things should not be used? I mean, it's inconceivable, isn't it? Will Finland have to shoot itself in the foot again and say that we cannot pay these debts when forests cannot be used? In time, Finland built this country from the forest after the war, and so it will do it again.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u80	Mr President! Finland, as the presidency of the Arctic Council, can raise the issue and thus promote important environmental issues, that is true. But my question is about electric cars and the future. What does the near future look like? Will there be a total increase in the number of electric cars? If we also think about it financially from Finland's point of view, it could be a new production gap for the continuation of the New Town miracle in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u81	Madam President! To a certain extent, I accept burning wood, but I do not accept burning taxpayers' money. For the next ten years we will still pay wind power support of such a sum of over EUR 200 million, practically rising, annually. Cumulatively, with this current system, we will be supporting wind power by perhaps EUR 3 billion. Thus, taxpayers' money is being burned into wind power for foreign investors of around EUR 3 billion. Now I ask the government: is this madness going to continue, i.e. to support wind power with taxpayers' money even after this stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u82	President! The report and its thrust are good. We have huge cleantech export potential, we need to accelerate that export. We could use state development companies, if possible, as we heard it was possible. Cleantech is often now software that optimizes the use of electricity, heat or even compressed air. We have to remember this. It's not just products anymore. Increasing the use of renewables is a good thing. Increasing the use of domestic biofuels is a good thing. But we have to grow carbon sinks. Something else can be found there, that is to say, air ash can be used in vulnerable sectors. We need to check this out. Then about electric cars and the subsidies that have been put forward here: in fact, we would have to support the purchase of batteries, whether in electric cars or in detached houses in connection with panels. The battery is a component. Better to support the buying of batteries than the buying of electric cars. — So briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u83	Madam President! I remember when I was amazed at the fact that the Prime Minister's mouth has said that coal power is being abandoned and that it is being properly legislated on. And when you look at the actual report, that is not the case, but it still has quite a share of carbon power for 2030. Let's be honest right now that we're not giving up coal power. As a second thought: When I listened to Minister Tiilikai, who says that wood is, of course, not used directly but is waste or by-product or something else, would it not be more honest to say that we have a circular economy, which is the broad concept of combating climate change and using renewable energy, of which wood, when it has already been used two, three or four times, is part which can also produce energy? So it would not come to this strange idea that we have a bioeconomy that leads and uses energy and electricity, because that is hopefully not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u84	Madam President! Mr Tiilikainen opened this forest use and the Swedish model very well, and Mr Paatero also said very well to me that this is a circular economy. After all, the key objective we have in energy production is to use energy from waste and residues and from side streams in the use of wood. One I wouldn't take from Sweden. In other words, there is such a concept as energyskog, which means that they grow forests for energy needs. I do not believe that we are going here in Finland. This is an extraordinary debate because we have to repeat these same things here. But let us now repeat that the forest industry will take care of that value creation. They do not put valuable wood material into energy, but they do put it in those valuable products. And finally, this objective of our government, which is rising from the national forestry strategy, comes from industrial investment needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u85	That agreed time limit, 4:00 p.m., is approaching. Here are the responses requested, representatives Lehto, Salmon, Turunen, Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Semi. And then to the ministers, at the end of the short speeches, and then, as previously agreed, let us move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u86	Madam President! That goal of 250,000 electric cars in 2030 is really good. But when you look at these registrations: even last month, 9394 cars were registered, 39 full electric cars and 142 hybrids. So quite a lot still has to happen here and their prices have to fall that people will start buying more of them. Then, if you look at that taxation: Nissan Leaf, which costs 33500 — it also has a tax of only €1,200. There's not much tax in it that you could drop. We must hope very much that in the world these volumes of electric cars will increase and thus lower prices. This is where you have to cross your hands to get it this way. I do not think that much tax relief can be made through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u87	Mr President! Just as Mr Pekkarinen mentioned, it is quite clearly stated here on the website of the climate panel that increasing felling and harvesting will reduce the carbon sink of Finnish forests and the carbon stock of forests for at least decades forward compared to the situation where they will not be increased. There has now been a very different witness to this in the Greens' speeches. It is a shame that representatives Niinistö and Kari left here and are not responsible for what they said here earlier. But I would also like to highlight a few of the points made in the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. One is new support based on renewable energy sources, and here we very strongly want to emphasise that it must be technologically neutral. The second is that we have a clear problem with sawmill by-products, bark and biting, and that too should be the solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u88	Mr President! Mr Ville Niinistö did get out of here, but hopefully he'll follow it later or he's watching it on television right now. He said that Finland will not do anything after what the EU demands. But we must now take into account, for example, this burden-sharing that has been done in the EU. Finland has 39 per cent of the burden of reducing emissions from non-emissions trading by 30 years. Poland, which pollutes much more than Finland: 7%. Should we think about this division, perhaps focusing more on it than raising the percentage of Finland, which is already in the pin, by 39 per cent? Only Sweden and Luxembourg are doing more. It is shocking to say that Finland is doing nothing but what the EU demands. The EU is, in fact, demanding a great deal from Finland, and we are doing so. However, this is the situation that Finland and the Finnish Government can be very proud of what they have done. Let me just say this very quickly: I will ask the Minister about this new support for renewables, and I will now also refer to what Mr Zyskowicz has said: is it sensible for us to build new aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u89	Mr President! New innovative products, services and consumer-oriented solutions related to housing, mobility and food have been left to a very small extent in this debate. For example, promoting environmentally friendly and mass food can significantly support the objectives of the energy and climate strategy. The contribution of the food system to the climate impacts of consumption is as high as that of transport and housing, so favouring climate-friendly food is important for controlling climate change. Very rarely are we talking about this point of view. Innovations related to mobility, housing and food show that while technological development is important, other types of innovation, such as social innovation and new culture of use, are also needed to promote a sustainable future. There is very little talk about these in this strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u90	Madam President! Although I have such a view from the point of view of the forest industry and forest management that large trees must be cut down in order to allow small ones to grow, when you look at bio-plants and planned bio-plants built in Eastern Finland — Äänekoski will still be involved, cardboard factories, sawmills, everything there is — I have read such an expert report that our tree growth there in Eastern Finland will no longer be enough to replace the amount of wood needed to maintain their production plants. At that point I am beginning to worry that what kind of environment will we leave for our future children and what industry's point of view will be if we live on wood alone. We must have, as is currently the case — we build ships, cars and everything like this — a versatile business structure, and above all we should insist that it can be regarded as environmentally friendly and functional, and then provide Finland with those import incomes and maintain its exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u91	Madam President! There are indeed ambitious challenges and demands for transport to reduce emissions by 50% by 2030 and we are aiming for zero-emission transport in 2050. This whole package does not come about through a single measure, and it is precisely as we have seen in this debate that we have short-term objectives with renewable fuels, biogas, which play a very important role, but in the long term we must have the electrification of transport not only in passenger transport but also in public transport. However, as far as transport is concerned, this is a wider package. It's about our habits. It is a question of developing public transport. The question is how we are going to provide services and how we are going to enable the transport sharing economy to develop. All of this will require that we have transparency and bold and structural reforms, not only from the point of view of transport legislation, but also as to how transport taxation and charging policies will be developed in the future. At the moment, there are many things we are leaving behind. There are less than a thousand fully electric cars in use in Finland and their number is increasing very slowly. We therefore have a role to play, and it is exactly as the debate has been taking place here in this Chamber, that it is not only possible for us to establish heavy support schemes, but we must find comprehensive and holistic solutions to reduce emissions from transport. We have a parliamentary task force working very actively and seriously on these issues. We have the objective of getting an interim report in mid-August so that we can make concrete choices and decisions in this year's budget debate on how and by what measures we can contribute to reducing emissions from transport, how we make use of the energy efficiency of the transport system, how we promote the energy efficiency of vehicles and how we make use of the technological developments and innovations associated with it. This also requires decisions from us in the autumn, and it is clear that, in this particular situation, it is frustrating that there is a lack of concreteness, but there is still work to be done on the ground every day, and it will then be possible to take decisions in connection with the autumn budget debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u92	Minister Mykkänen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u93	Mr President! Perhaps I am going to sum up the fact that the creation of a pioneering market in Finland, which we have been talking about here today, is absolutely crucial for those export efforts too. In this respect, perhaps the main issue is the extent to which large cities in Finland, for example, are warming up with biomass, to what extent they are not. I personally believe that development in itself will take us more to exploit waste heat, energy savings. Interesting, for example, that in Espoo, for example, the Flagship’s large shopping centre plans to become 90% energy self-sufficient after the renovation, more than 300 meters deep heat pumps are made that handle the majority of this. What if this is scaled to the level of the entire urban area? How does that change our heat market? These are the questions which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, as well as others here, will, fortunately, draw attention to, and we will have to work on them together to ensure that we are not only pioneers from our technology but also pioneers from our references in Europe and solve the problems with which others are wrestling. Of course, there is a need for some aid in this regard to ensure that the abandonment of coal, which is indeed taking place, is achieved. Contrary to what some said here, 2030 is not meant to burn coal in Finland under normal conditions, and it requires the possibility that it does not cost too much even when you have to burn some of the energy to produce. At the same time, Mr Zyskowicz took care of wind support. This government, in itself, is changing completely the philosophy that created this old billion-dollar subsidy, which means that technologically neutral auctions will be conducted in the future, so that the aid will in any case represent a fraction of the old one. Mrs Myllykoski made a good point — whether my blind spot or not — about this funding and the fund model. As such, I would think that the Senate's guarantee base is always in the background when, for example, the state invests through an investment in industry, through Finnfund or otherwise. For example, in the administrative sector of my own ministry, EUR 530 million of investment money is available during this parliamentary term. But let's look at it again — I'm not saying this is Myllykoski's blind spot — there might be an idea. Also interesting ideas: for example, Mr Vähämäki's idea of this support for batteries has come into play here, in fact, more than on the basis of its purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u94	Minister Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u95	Mr President! A few more comments: Vice-President Pekkarinen summed up quite a bit just now by saying that while Finland's forest fellings are increasing, the carbon stock of forests is growing every year. We may have a slight contraction in the throat, yet it is a tens of millions of tons of carbon sink. And I repeat: the Finnish Government is seeking to achieve the same level of forest growth as Sweden is doing — this is not the bigger issue. Mr Hassi, you, if anyone knows and knows the technology, and you also know that electricity alone does not solve everything. The sun and wind are moving rapidly around the world in these very tenders, to which Minister Mykkänen referred, but in Finland electricity accounts for about 30 per cent of total energy consumption. We have a very great need to produce district heat, keep Finnish homes warm. What are the solutions? Geothermal heat, industrial waste heat, but we have to burn some solid fuel, and we have to get rid of coal. It will require something else, hopefully sustainable biomass. The circular economy and the bioeconomy are in no way opposed. The circular economy is needed as part of the bioeconomy, as part of the exploitation of non-renewable resources. I repeat once again that Finland's bioenergy comes from by-products of the forest industry, such as bits, shells and industrial waste liquors, and from by-products of forest management and felling, such as small-scale wood, branches and logging residues. Representative Mr Mölsä also raised this important point that how we secure this CHP. Yes, the low price of electricity is precisely the one that makes one wonder whether it is just heat or energy efficient, both electricity and heat. The Government intends to introduce elements to ensure this energy-efficient combined production of electricity and heat in the future. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u96	This is the part where the debate is suspended. The debate will continue in this plenary session after the other items in the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u97	We will now continue with the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u98	Mr President! I would like to support the proposal made by Mrs Kari for the adoption of statements in the form proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but since Mrs Antero Vartia, the Green Member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, is in the Chamber, I leave this to her. I am now raising the issues raised in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. The Committee on the Environment notes that this government's energy and climate strategy is a step in the right direction, but nevertheless relatively cautious, that the challenges and opportunities have been well identified as such, but that in many cases no concrete measures are proposed. The Committee on the Environment refers to Sitra's report that, if we really want to move forward at a rate that curbs climate change between 1.5 and 2 degrees, if Finland is moving on the most economically viable path, emissions should be reduced by around 60% by 2030 instead of the current EU target of 40%. In other words, it should be 20 percentage points more stringent, and by the middle of the century negative emissions should be achieved, i.e. sinks are higher than emissions. The Committee on the Environment also stresses that 15 years for the energy system is a very short period of time, since investment cycles are tens of years long, which means that if we now make the wrong choices, their effects will be felt for a very long time. There was a lot of talk about forests and sinks in the debate and in the debate earlier today. The Committee on the Environment also notes that the increase in bioenergy as strong as forest-based bioenergy, as planned by the government, involves risks and that it would be wiser to be more ambitious in these matters than the government's plans for investments in solar and wind power and also for geothermal energy. This would also be a wiser solution for promoting our technology exports. The committee refers to the risks of biofuels identified by Sitra, which are also mentioned by the Committee on Economic Affairs in its report. On the other hand, these risks are legal, i.e., if we now have a solution in the EU that the Finnish Government is pushing for, that in practice the climate emissions calculation takes a blind eye to the fact that Finland's actual carbon sinks are shrinking, this can well be changed in the future, as the urgency of climate protection is widely understood. Of course it is a risk for the climate itself, but it is also a risk for the biodiversity of our forests. In other words, the opinion of the Committee on the Environment is that the government's proposal should focus more strongly on promoting solar and wind power, promoting energy efficiency, promoting smart grid solutions. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also identifies these issues as the most important in terms of export potential. As one detail, I would like to mention one expert opinion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which stated that the current solar technology market in Finland is some millions, but yet the associated export potential of Finnish expertise is EUR 1 billion. In other words, this perspective should be more prominent. The Committee on the Environment also notes that there are municipalities in Finland, the so-called Hinku municipalities, which, by decision of the municipality, have adopted a emission reduction rate twice as fast as Finland is committed to in the EU. This is a good example of what can be done in municipalities, and hopefully it will also be done more widely so far. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to quote another comment by 68 researchers on carbon sinks in forests published in March. It states: "In the coming decades, Finland's carbon reserves will grow
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u99	Mr President! In order not to forget by accident, I support Mrs Kari's proposal that Parliament approve the statement of objections. Climate change is the greatest threat of our time, everyone recognises this fact, but do we act accordingly? Some of the goals of the Government’s climate and energy strategy are ambitious, such as stopping the use of coal and increasing the share of renewable energy in our energy consumption by 2030. However, I believe that there is a blind spot in the strategy. It relies so heavily on the increase in bioenergy from the wood of our forests that the carbon sink of forests threatens to cut half of the current — this has been noted in the Government's own impact assessments. Thus, Finland’s forests absorb half the carbon from the air every year than they do today. This is the same thing from a climate point of view as emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u107	Mr President! We dealt with this strategy carefully in the Committee on the Future, because it is also important for sustainable development, and we have had such a red thread in the committee's work this spring. The measures set out in the strategy relate to the de-energyisation of coal in other tastes, the reduction of the use of imported oil, the increase in the share of biofuels in transport, the increase in the share of electric and gas cars, the development of electricity markets at regional and European level, the flexibility of electricity demand and supply, and the system level of energy efficiency and renewable electricity generation. The long-term goal is carbon-neutral society. When we heard a number of experts in the Committee on the Future, the experts say that the measures are heading in the right direction, but whether they are sufficient to manage global warming, for example, is another and very difficult issue, and our experts were very diverse on this issue. Moreover, the strategy does not sufficiently support trends in the development of long-term energy consumption and production. Such trends include digitalisation and the related change in the role of the consumer. The development of digitalisation and other decentralisation technologies also enables decentralised energy production. In the future, local energy saving measures and small renewable energy production, as well as the associated smart electricity grid, will play an important role in consumer flexibility, among other things. Decentralised energy production increases local business and makes real estate, housing companies and even self-inhabited energy producers. Mr President! Society's energy security, security of supply and energy self-sufficiency, as well as its resilience to crisis, have been quite well taken into account in the strategy's guidelines. The above-mentioned increase in local and small-scale energy production can further improve security of supply, provided that the safety of complex networks is not undermined at the same time. On the other hand, increasing renewable energy production represents a risk to maintaining the power balance of the electricity system as the share of weather-dependent sun and wind in the energy palette increases. President! As the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also pointed out in its report, the consumer perspective has been taken into account far too little in the strategy. The consumer is mainly seen as the subject of information control. Of course, it is important because according to studies, energy consumption data alone is estimated to reduce energy consumption by between 7% and 15%. There would be demand for diverse environmentally friendly products and solutions if they were widely and easily accessible. On the other hand, consumers are also important investors in clean energy, as households, for example, invested around EUR 350 million in heat pumps alone in 2016. However, the consumer's role in the energy market is rapidly expanding as different energy equipment is linked via the Internet. Even now, households have the possibility to disconnect themselves from the electricity grid for several days during the summer with electric car batteries or to provide electricity network control and storage services. Such trade will increase in the future and future scenarios of this kind have not been sufficiently highlighted in the strategy. Developing energy technology enables Finland to export many new products: For example, Finnish solar companies have huge opportunities in international markets. There is also global demand for waste-using circular economy solutions, smart energy-saving solutions for industry and real estate, consumer services related to the sharing economy and know-how related to artificial intelligence. An excellent example of Finnish cleantech expertise is photonics, which have application areas in solar cells, LED lights, self-controlled cars and modern indoor farming, and all of these are related to energy saving. Finally, Mr President, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is much broader and more forward-looking than the strategy itself. The report therefore shows quite well the shortcomings of the strategy. I hope that the government will take seriously the messages and efforts of the report and will take energy and climate policy forward on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u108	Mr President! At the outset, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs, which dealt with this for a long time, did find a very good common view of the direction in which Finland's energy policy should be developed in the long term. As has been shown here in the debate, only one objection was made to this, specifically from the Green side, but it must also be acknowledged that there were quite good elements in the protest, and one of them is the one that emphasises that our rural industries and, although not raised in it, it is absolutely vital from the point of view of the regional economy that we, in transport fuels, find the growing use of biogas and solutions for how we can quickly increase the use of biogas in transport. It could be said that it would then be possible to use the biogas from agriculture and, therefore, to achieve our common big objective, so that regions and individual farms can also benefit from it. In other respects, it seems that there is a great deal of disagreement here about what the scientists have said. I very much welcome the fact that the Minister, in his own speeches, has explained how it has been dealt with, among other things, with the climate panel. It must be said that in this debate — I was listening to Mr Vartia’s speech — a picture became as Finland would use more forests in the future on the basis of this energy than we have an annual forest growth rate, so this is not the case. When you look at the main arguments accepted by researchers from this climate panel, it is stated specifically that "more logging and logging reduces the carbon sink of Finnish forests and the carbon stock of forests for at least decades forward compared to a situation where they are not increased". Of course that is the case, as President Pekkarinen said here: if we compare it with the situation that they are not being grown, that carbon sink will be reduced, but our forests will always grow and absorb carbon dioxide more than we use those forests. It should also be taken into account that, unfortunately, climate change is progressing and affects forest growth. It has been predicted from the researchers' side that in 2050 the growth of Lapland's forests will be the same as today's growth of Central Finland's forests. Mr President! I will then mention a few points raised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which I would like to draw attention to myself, and which are precisely the fact that, now that new aid based on renewable energy sources is being prepared, not more than 2 terawatt hours, it is extremely important that it is competitive and technologically neutral, so that the best and most affordable technological solution prevails and does not exclude any forms of energy production. The second point that has been raised here, which is our common concern, is that our sawmills do not sell, they accumulate there, and at the same time, although it is not significant for our energy use, we are being imported from Russia, which is a matter of principle, in my opinion, that we should use the domestic side streams and not have to import it from Russia. I think that the government must find a solution to this so that we can overcome this problem. It makes no sense for them to rot in the heaps, or, as perhaps with a little humor, a sawman said last autumn that the piles of bits and shells are so big that when snow falls on, they buy ski lifts and get a ski resort on it. That is a real and serious problem, and there are no easy ways to do this, but we must try to find ways to do this. What I wonder is that when we talk about such a broad report, about climate and energy strategy, there is still no mention of hydropower. However, 20 per cent of our current electricity generation in the order of magnitude is produced by hydropower, and when Sweden and the other Nordic countries are idealized, 40 per cent is produced in Sweden, In Norway, about 99 per cent of electricity is hydroelectric. When we get some rational hydroelectric project that's already built in the river to move forward, like: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u109	Mr President! Finland’s long-term goal is carbon-neutral society. That should be the aim of every civilized country, but unfortunately it is not. At present, about three-quarters of greenhouse gas emissions are generated by energy production and consumption, including the energy used by transport. Emissions are also generated from industrial processes, agriculture from soil and livestock farming and the waste sector. The objective of a carbon-neutral society requires action in all these areas, but also in each of us's own thinking. When preparing the national energy and climate strategy, it is essential to take into account the specific characteristics of our country, such as the cold climate, long transport distances, extensive energy intensive industries and our own raw material resources, especially forest biomass. I believe that this strategy has taken these issues into account in the necessary way. The Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council 2017-2019 is based on strong Arctic tradition and expertise. The Member States of the Arctic Council are committed to environmental protection and sustainable development in the Arctic. The Finnish Presidency is setting an example here for others. Finland encourages Member States to continue to focus on biodiversity conservation and pollution prevention, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. The international community approved a legally binding climate agreement in Paris in 2015. It is estimated that global warming will continue for decades and will have a significant impact on the Arctic region. It is therefore necessary to continue work to mitigate climate change and to strengthen climate resilience and adaptation to climate change. Awareness of Arctic issues in international climate negotiations should also be raised. The melting of ice and snow in the Arctic region will increase the global impact of climate change. The implementation of the commitments of the Paris climate agreement is the most important thing that Member States can do with regard to climate change. I welcome the fact that Finland wishes to promote a method of environmental impact assessment tailored to the Arctic region in particular, involving local residents closely. Last week I represented in Greenland at a meeting of the Arctic parliamentarians. We also visited the glacier area, and I can tell you that the glacier has shrunk considerably in recent decades. I do not think that development is good in any way, even if, as the climate warms up, we can also open the North-East route to maritime transport. The Government's report on the national energy and climate strategy would contribute to reducing climate change, and that is a good thing in all respects. In this strategy, I particularly welcome the fact that Finland will abandon the use of coal by 2030 and the use of renewable energy will be increased to more than 50% of final energy consumption in the 2020s. Energy taxation also encourages the use of forest chips and forest industry by-products in combined heat and power production and separate heat production. These are the actions that Finland and Finnish production need.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u110	Mr President! Our country's energy policy had suffered from incoherence and unpredictability long before the current government and the current parliamentary term. The major Finnish disaster during the last period was the government of the Greens and the Left, when their common policy destroyed the basic Finnish industry by undermining competitiveness through various energy taxes and wind power support policies that distort the production of clean hydropower. In the same way, the shelters were protected as a kingdom of bugs. Finland's energy policy did not serve society's overall interests, as energy policy was based on the end of Finnish society and values. A little similar echo was made in the times of the Communist revolution: when the state is brought to its knees, it is easy to hand the country over to the enemy. Fortunately, with the strong opposition policy of the Finns of Peru, we were able to block the road to destruction.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u113	Mr Myllykoski stood up, but he also pressed the button on the speech itself. What's it gonna be, Congressman Myllykoski?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u114	Mr President! I would have liked to comment on that political signal a little bit on what Mr Mölsä said, but it would be all right after Mr Hoskosen has spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u115	A firm speech has been reserved for you here at the end of the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u116	Mr President! I believe that the national climate and energy strategy has been very successful in the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and in this context I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy for their very responsible handling and very constructive views on this issue. In particular, I would like to thank Ville Skinner for his contribution as an important member of the demars group. The fact that the Greens left a different opinion on the matter is perfectly understandable when you look at what their policy is about. In a few minutes. In any case, Finland’s forests are growing. In 45 C.E., we had about 50 million mots a year in our forests, this day 105 million mots a year, and if we go along with the fact that we manage our affairs properly and the forests are in order, then 135 to 140 million is entirely possible. In the last 40 years, Finland’s forest reserves have grown by 600 million mots — 600 million mots of coal — and if anyone is still talking in this Chamber about the reduction of the carbon sink, I am very surprised at that talk. And if we leave our forests unattended, then we will do the damage that the carbon sink does not work, which is always worth taking care of. Secondly, a great deal has been said about diversity, and the Greens have made a huge noise about this. The structure of Finnish forests itself includes its engine of diversity, which is always in order. 400,000 private spaces, a significant proportion of which are so-called dormant farms, are a sure source of its diversity and also all other farms, because all forest professionals, engineers and so on are trained and these critical points are always taken into account. In other words, even the fact that we are caught up in diversity is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u119	Mr President! The national climate and energy agenda is ambitious and the target level is certainly set at a high level. In particular, I like the fact that Finland's energy production continues to be decentralised. It guarantees security of supply, especially in times of crisis. We are heading towards renewable energy sources in a carbon-free society at a rate that still needs to put gas into the potential for energy production from the sun, wind, water, biomass. On the circular economy side, we would be able to obtain more biogas from sludges, manure, waste and by-products of wood use. In particular, decentralised energy production involves supporting and enabling the generation of electricity from households. There has also been some talk of peat here today. In the past parliamentary term, I saw it as important that we should primarily try to get rid of fossil fuels and then have peat, which is gradually being exported to a lower level. But peat is one part of this level of domesticism, which brings regional employment, livelihoods in the very areas where it might be difficult to find replacement jobs, and the use of peat as a whole, even though it is emission-efficient, guarantees the security of supply that I mentioned earlier. In the Committee on Transport and Communications, we looked at the energy and climate strategy through our own glasses, of course, and said that the transport sector is responsible for about 40% of the emissions from the burden sharing sector and therefore plays a key role in reducing emissions. These figures, which we know need to be reduced by 3.6 million tonnes of emissions from transport, are major and challenging. With one medicine, one action, we will not achieve this goal, but we need much. These include improving the energy efficiency of transport systems and, for example, improving the energy efficiency of vehicles. But, above all, investment in the development of alternative propulsion for transport and the development of fuels are important. The blending obligation has already entered into force and has been gradually increased. The development of various electricity or distribution networks has already been considered in a legal way, how the distribution of electricity and gas across Finland is protected nationally but also commercially. Above all, charging networks are needed to ensure that, if and when we want to have at least 250,000 electric cars and 50,000 gas-powered cars by 2030, this also means thinking about car tax practices, subsidies, incentives. But what it also means in legislation must be brought up. Mr President! I have followed with interest the debate on the Finnish forests, as if they were suddenly a great burden and problem for us. This is by no means the case. They are very effective in binding carbon dioxide emissions and are our carbon sinks. That's why you have to take good care of them. We use the forest less than it grows, and that is the true truth that wiser than I have told us many times. We take advantage of annual growth, but not in energy terms. Wood construction is on everyone's lips and minds. The importance of the wood industry today is still very important: paper, pulp and so on, the forms of processing are important. Sustainable use of forests is important, and we make energy from the side streams of wood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u120	Mr President! The key objectives of the strategy to increase the share of renewable energy to 50% of final consumption, to increase self-sufficiency to 55%, to phase out coal, to halve domestic consumption of imported oil and to increase the share of renewable fuels to 40%, and to achieve the 2030 emission reduction targets for the burden-sharing sector are good and worthwhile in this strategy. However, we already know that this will not be enough to achieve the 2030 emission reduction targets, and that is why we need to constantly consider how we can move forward. The minister here told us that in 2045, the goal is to enter a carbon-neutral society. At the same time, we must remember that this strategy is not enough. The less we have talked about here is that the strategy is based on nuclear power and bioenergy. Of course, there has been talk of bioenergy, but not about this combination. On a European scale, Finland will produce the most of its energy in 2030 with bioenergy and nuclear power. Finland is among the three largest here. Nuclear and bioenergy's share of primary energy is well above 60%, and at the same time the previous broader base for our energy supply is narrowing considerably. We have talked very much about Finland having a large energy palette, but this is where it gets smaller. It is also important to note that these forms of energy are not at the heart of global energy change, which is also relevant to the outlook for energy exports. After all, we have invested a great deal in this, thinking that Finland is the first exporter of a different cleantech, but here we have to consider whether we have the expertise, from the point of view of this strategy, which is really needed in the future. Of course, the report shows that even old solutions can achieve significant emission reduction targets, thus avoiding the risks of new technologies, while at the same time increasing the long-term risk. Nuclear and bioenergy pose significant technical, economic, political and environmental risks that are not addressed in the strategy. There is no contingency plan for the economic or environmental risks of the Olkiluoto or Pyhäjoki nuclear power plants, for example. It is also difficult to adapt to these sustainable development objectives and climate targets to halt the deterioration of the forest environment at the same time as the Government's massive goal of increasing forest bioenergy. This is about the fact that a strong investment in bioenergy replaces many other opportunities, such as transport and energy efficiency. So in transport and energy efficiency, in addition to what we think we can do about energy production, we should look at how we consume energy. Transport and housing will then play a key role. How can the energy efficiency of residential buildings be improved, especially by renovation? How can transport, housing, jobs, urban structure be made one that reduces the need for transport, especially the need for car transport? And how are cities made pedestrians, cyclists, and public transport in the main? And how is transport in urban centres and neighbourhoods organised in such a way that people can move easily, but at the same time reduce the emissions caused by transport? These are not only questions of what propulsion is being used in transport, but extremely important issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u121	Mr President! In the light of the debate, it must be said that there are conflicting views about the carbon sinks of Finnish forests. However, it has now been possible to say to Mölsä — if he has now bothered to go online to see this speech — that the speech was very political and he used old-fashioned terms, left-wing communists and so on. When I have never been familiar with that doctrine, I will not take its biggest position, but I would remind Mr Mölsä that last season we had a parliamentary Committee on Energy and Climate Change, which made a unanimous approach, and I did not then see an angel liberating either from the Finns or from anywhere else, but tried to create a long-term approach in Finland so that we in industry and society as a whole have energy and climate policy policies in such a way that there is predictability. And this report has also been mirrored in such a way that the report has been valued in such a way that there are ten good boosts. If anyone criticises why there are so many boosts, that means that Parliament itself in the Committee on Economic Affairs has seen certain things, something that needs to be emphasised even more. All these efforts are aimed at that predictability and at things that are important for the future and for national vitality. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry dealt with this issue as a statement committee. It should be noted that, just as in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the left-wing coalition was in the same line. Now, if I want to get into one particular thing, it's this carbon sink in the woods. Personally, Mrs Myllykoski believes that the weed is not a carbon sink, that the treated forest is a carbon sink. Only well-managed forest can act as an efficient carbon sink, and when well managed, it is well used, it actually grows and is an effective carbon sink. And it should not be forgotten in this matter that the growing forest for its part... Even now that Mr Hongisto, in particular, has made a very good point about the fact that wood construction is a very good carbon stock, we must note that we certainly have differences between cities, as has been pointed out here, with regard to the extent to which there are differences in how much renewable energy is being done in Stockholm and Helsinki. Well, we are all aware that Sweden has a great deal of geothermal heat, concentrated activity, which is renewable energy. But we in Helsinki are hole cheese, so we can no longer build renewable energy based on geothermal heat in that way, because we are the so-called city of underground tunnels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u124	Mr President! Finally, for my part, this report on climate and energy at hand. Three things were not said, the first of which is the construction of wood. That is what I warmly support — its more noble environmental and climate action is nothing more than building a wooden house instead of a concrete house. It's a noble deed, and I've always been a supporter of wood construction. The older I've lived, the more I support it. The second point is the increase in the bio-divisions of transport fuels. The Government's clear policy objective is to increase the share of bio-divisions produced from domestic raw materials in transport fuels. This is a very good objective and I warmly support it. Now that there is a great deal of interest in electric cars and we all know how expensive they are — and the electric car is not without problems under Finnish conditions, this too must be acknowledged — I will simply say that if a Finnish, fully bio-produced diesel car drives along the roads of Finland, it is just as big an environmental act as an electric car, for example. There are small nuances in them, it is true, but in any case, when Finnish fuels are made from Finnish raw materials, it is a noble environmental act, it supports Finnish work and it is a climate-critical thing. And the third is the other industry created by the forestry industry in this country. Representative Myllykoski comes from a region where it is certainly appreciated that Finnish machinery, the Finnish chemical industry, the Finnish metal industry, the Finnish machinery industry are made. All of this has been created by the forest industry in Finland. When Finland started to rise after the war, sawmills, pulp mills, paper mills and so on were built. All that technology created the metal industry, the chemical industry, produced electricity and Finnish well-being in this country. Let us not stray from this road. I believe that Mrs Myllykoski, as the second Member of Parliament present, strongly supports this idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u125	Mr President! Well, of course I'm one of them, if I'm not a backup, then at least as an ass-kicker. Of course, this should be the case. However, with regard to biofuels, it is assumed that now that these certain double counting biofuels will be examined then in 2020 — at present we still have a double counting for fuel produced from tall oil — and when this double counting is supposed to be eliminated in 20, it will add even more to the importance of biofuels as transport fuel. I am not entirely convinced whether it is in favour of anything other than residues and wood chips to be turned into biodiesel, for example. But it is important to note here that our forest industry is one of our natural resources. It is so important in economic terms that we cannot give it up, and we must be able and dared to use it for the whole of the economy. And in that sense I will compromise Mr Hoskosen's view that if it was built after the wars, then let it be our new war that we are energy-dependent so that we can give up coal and oil.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u126	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u127	Mr President! This legislative reform implements nationally the so-called Fourth Money Laundering Directive and lays down the national provisions necessary for the implementation of the so-called 'Payer Information' Regulation. The Fourth Money Laundering Directive must be implemented nationally by 26 June at the latest. This year. The amendment of the law will make it more effective to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and that is precisely what needs to be stressed, namely to prevent financing. There is also a broader objective of combating financial crime as a precursor to money laundering. It is proposed to reform the legislation in such a way that the activities of obliged traders and entities, as well as those supervising them, are more clearly based on risk assessment. The Government, the supervisory authorities, the Bar Association and the reporting parties will be obliged to draw up risk assessments of money laundering and terrorist financing. The risk-based allocation of activities aims to improve the application of legislation. The most important changes from the point of view of public authorities compared to current legislation are more uniform supervisory powers and the right of supervisory authorities to impose administrative sanctions. For the private sector, the most significant change is the new provisions on the identification and registration of all legal persons, owners and other beneficial owners. The purpose of centralised registration is to improve access to information. It is proposed to adopt a separate law on the FIU to take account of the fact that it is a police department which is partially subject to police law and data protection regulations different from those of obliged persons and supervisors. The new Money Laundering Act proposes to provide for more detailed provisions on the identification and registration of beneficial owners. In addition, the obligation to identify political influence is extended, in accordance with the Fourth Money Laundering Directive, to cover not only foreign but also domestic persons. The Committee on Administrative Affairs has dealt very thoroughly with the scope of regulation, for example in the field of non-life insurance and gambling, on which the Committee on Economic Affairs has also commented. The report has sought to open up different application situations, particularly as regards the identification of the customer and the knowledge of a politically influential person. In order to avoid any ambiguity in interpretation, the Administrative Committee also proposes that the regulation be clarified with regard to Section 13 of Chapter 1 of the draft law in order to clarify what is meant by a risk-based assessment procedure for the identification of a politically influential person. In its report, the Administrative Committee has also looked at the threshold for the registration of information on actual beneficiaries. On the grounds of the report, the committee supports the 25% registration threshold proposed in the government proposal. In this regard, however, the committee proposes a statement requiring the government to assess, in the context of the implementation of the amendments to the Fourth Money Laundering Directive, whether the threshold for the registration of information on beneficial owners is sufficient to ensure that the provisions are not easily circumvented, also taking into account the purpose of the information. Chapter 8 of the proposed 1st Act provides for administrative sanctions. According to the proposal, the Authority may impose an infringement fee or penalty fee or give a public warning of breaches or non-compliance with the obligations laid down in the law or EU Regulation. The criminal sanctions currently resulting from these acts will therefore be replaced by administrative sanctions. The Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee have examined these proposals in their own opinions. The Administrative Committee proposes a number of amendments to the committee opinions referred to above, referring to the regulation. The reform also proposes to provide for an appeal for administrative sanctions. One of the issues raised has been the appeal against the decisions of the Financial Supervisory Authority, which, according to the Government’s proposal, would be appealed to market law when the appeal route is passed to administrative law on the decisions of all other supervisors. The motion is justified by the fact that the same activity may also meet the criteria for infringement on the basis of another Act applied by the Financial Supervisory Authority and that the appeal should be made in this respect on the same instance. However, the Committee on Administrative Affairs shares the concern expressed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights about the consistency of the case law on money laundering law and notes that money laundering legislation is specifically a question of preventing and investigating the misuse of the financial system. It is also relevant to ensure consistency in the case-law that the powers of all supervisory authorities to impose administrative sanctions are proposed to be defined in the same way. Other issues related to money laundering legislation, such as publicity issues, will also be resolved as complaints in administrative courts at first instance. Therefore, the Administrative Committee also believes that, in order to ensure consistency in the case law on money laundering law, it is justified that 1. An appeal against the decisions of the Financial Supervisory Authority in accordance with the draft law shall be lodged with the Administrative Court. The Administrative Committee also takes the view that the change will be carried out in this context, taking into account the timetable for the national implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. The Administrative Committee also proposes, with reference to the opinion of the Legal Committee, that the appeal against the decisions of the Patent and Registration Board should not be focused on the Helsinki Administrative Court, as proposed in the Government's proposal, but should be directed towards administrative rights, as is the case with other supervisory authorities. Furthermore, in accordance with the proposal of the Legal Committee, the Administrative Committee proposes that decisions of all supervisory authorities referred to in Section 1 of Chapter 7 of the Money Laundering Act should be subject to the right of appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. The Government's proposal contains more than one legislative amendment related to the changes in the register and information system required for the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. The Administrative Committee proposes further clarifications and clarifications to the regulation, inter alia in the light of the opinions of the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee. The government's proposal is based on the fact that it takes two years to develop the registers. This needs to be taken into account when considering the dates of entry into force of the rules on registers, taking into account also the timing of this parliamentary procedure. The Administrative Committee also proposes a number of clarifications to the transitional provisions of the legislative proposals. The Administrative Committee proposes the adoption of legislative proposals with comments and amendments to the report. In addition, the Administrative Committee proposes the adoption of two new legislative proposals and the rejection of one of the legislative proposals contained in the Government proposal. In addition, the committee proposes a single statement for adoption. Mr President! This report also contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u128	Mr President! This legislative reform and its underlying EU regulation are necessary and welcome reforms. They are part of a broader reform of laws, treaties and standards aimed at increasing transparency of ownership and financing, limiting money laundering, tax avoidance and other obscure property regimes, and at exposing corruption, conflicts of interest, related party deals and terrorist financial flows. Increased economic transparency is very positive for both honest entrepreneurs and societies as a whole. In the late 1990s, the debate on the global tax haven economy and financial hedges has grown in the background, the global economic crisis has led to an increase in efforts to match tax bases and the so-called war on terrorism. Without the events of 11 September and the energies that followed, there would hardly have been a similar desire to break bank secrecy to follow terrorist money trails in the world’s mainstream. In addition to terrorists, other financial secrets also come out: financial criminals, tax evaders and corrupt decision-makers who use exactly the same secret arrangements. Mr President! Although the general direction is towards greater transparency, the majority of Parliament decided last week to adopt a law that allows Finnish ownership to be hidden in foreign management registers, i.e. to reduce the transparency of ownership and to make it more difficult to constrain financial crime. Unfortunately, this proposal before us and the report by the Administrative Committee also contain some important shortcomings. Increasing public awareness of the beneficial owners is also a key element of the current legislative reform. Here again, the government does not want to use the means it has to improve transparency. Unlike the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Administrative Committee supports in its report the government's line that only owners holding more than 25% of the Community or company should be entered in the public register. According to the European Commission’s impact assessment, the limit is too high and easily circumvented by, for example, decentralisation of ownership in neighbouring parties, leading to the lack of publicity of the beneficial owners in line with the objectives of the Directive. In the context of the forthcoming reform of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive in the trilogue negotiations and later in the Parliament, the Commission has therefore proposed to reduce the reporting limit to 10%, which is also in line with the practice applied by the United States in a similar situation and required by its partners. In its unanimous opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also highlighted the benefits of the lower ownership threshold. The opposition's opposition to the report of the Administrative Committee therefore proposes a clause in this respect. There is nothing to prevent Finland from imposing more transparency requirements than the EU's minimum directive at this stage. Mr President! There is also a loophole in the law that, in a situation where the beneficial owner is not identified, a member or a management person of the company may be declared as the beneficiary. When we know that the different Bulgarian arrangements and shell companies that hide the identity of the right beneficiary are one of the main problems of the entire financial secret system, it is very difficult to understand and accept this formulation. Have we learned nothing from Panama Papers, Lux Leaks and countless other information leak scandals in which even Finnish financial influences have been exposed from hiding behind tax haven chained holdings? Why is such a loophole left open at this point? At its lowest level, the company should be obliged to provide the registry administrator with an explanation as to why the beneficiary has not been identified, and this lack of identification should then also appear in the register. Mr President! Transparency is a prerequisite for democracy and a functioning economy. It increases trust between people and benefits both crime prevention and honest entrepreneurs, the media, researchers and civil society. I would like the government to bear this in mind when preparing legislative proposals. It is not always possible to reject proposals for greater transparency by appealing to a loose argument about the lack of administrative burden or additional regulation. Mr President! I hope that the House will accept the amendments to the paragraph that will be tabled later on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u129	Madam President! Much evil is done by money and we have dark financial flows throughout Europe and the world. They finance hard crime, drug crime, different types of economic crime and also terrorism, the terrible acts we have seen in Europe in recent days. It is very important that we update our money-laundering legislation, but we have to think about what it will do in everyday life when we make these legislative changes and directives. This legislation, this beneficiary regulation, will affect thousands of different Finnish SMEs, foundations, all economic operators. Personally, at least I am very much in favour of the government programme that we do not acquire additional national regulation, that we implement the regulation that will become the EU. I do not believe that the left-wing opposition has been able to show what the benefit of this stricter register of beneficiaries would be. Furthermore, according to the information I have received, there is quite a contrast in the EU with this idea, which was raised by Mr Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u130	Mr President! I encourage Mr Kurvis to read the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which highlights these loopholes that I have raised and the benefits of a lower identification requirement. There, on the basis of the consultations, we have stated in our unanimous opinion that this lower threshold of ownership would be more difficult to circumvent and, if this were to be the case, I pointed out that the register could not include a management person, it would also increase transparency, or at least then it would be known that the real beneficiary is not known, nor would it create a distorted concept. The EU is also moving towards a lower ownership threshold. I do find it problematic that any proposal to increase transparency should be rejected on the grounds of opposition to further regulation. However, when this information exists, why can it not also be openly disclosed?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u131	On the list, Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u132	Madam President! This issue and the whole package of laws is particularly relevant to the prevention of terrorist financing, and this prevention of terrorist financing is, after all, more closely linked to the fight against terrorist crime in recent years. A number of legislative changes have been introduced to prevent terrorism, and these changes, which are now being proposed here, are necessary, in particular in order to harmonise the powers of the authorities and to increase cooperation between the authorities. The lack of powers in current legislation has partially hampered the control of money laundering and the prevention of terrorist financing. Then this second question, which was raised here about the threshold for registration of information on beneficiaries. The opposition's objection is, in itself, well-founded, but I myself have yet to think about the fact that, while this preparatory work has indeed considered this lower registration threshold, which the Commission has also proposed, there is still the 25% threshold in other EU countries at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u135	Madam Speaker! After all, it is quite clear that if you lower the beneficiary limit to half a percent, then there will be more information and data and mass to run. It means more changes to the registers. It means more administrative work, which is out of the business, it is out of the business. I wonder whether Mr Sarkkinen and the left-wing opposition are of the opinion that we have such criminal companies in Finland that they must be subject to much tougher obligations and more stringent registers than in Europe. And as I said in my first speech, this proposal for a 10% threshold is in the wind in Europe. It is not yet a trend in any way, and it has not in any way won the general industry that it is indeed coming. We should not put our own businesses at a disadvantage than in the rest of Europe, taking huge amounts of stones in a backpack. We have very honest businesses, we have very honest police. I would like to ask Mr Sarkkinen: there are probably more honest companies and more honest authorities in Hungary, Poland and Romania. So we should lay down stricter rules when we have more corruption?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u136	Mr President! Transparency is precisely in the interests of an honest entrepreneur, because dishonest entrepreneurs gain a competitive advantage by circumventing regulations and obligations and taxes. Transparency specifically serves an honest Finnish entrepreneur. Mr President! In this respect, the opposition does not require any new information. All this information exists, it is about where it is to be reported, and it is about transparency. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy really draws attention to this. In the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the need to promote transparency of company ownership and beneficiary information and to establish a threshold for beneficiaries at EU and national level so that the provision is not in fact easily circumvented. The expert hearings revealed that the beneficiary register should be reliable and easy to use. Reliability would be enhanced if, in situations where the beneficial owner is not known, the register indicated that the beneficial owner is not known, rather than a manager of the company.' That is all we are asking for in this opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u137	Mr President! Just as Mr Sarkkinen said earlier, perhaps this is where Mr Kurvisen has to ask whether the representatives of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy are in any way anti-business when they were also in favour of this 10% limit. Is it not just the case that in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the representatives of the government parties were more in favour of transparency than those of the government parties in the Committee on Administration? Now, however, it is good to remember that there are exceptions to this minimum level of 25. In Denmark, for example, the same limit is 5% and in Norway, for example, we are moving towards collecting all the data on all owners. You would think that, in this time, after all the events, there would be more pressure to send a message from Finland to move towards transparency and not to go from where the fence is lowest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u138	Madam President! Although I agree with these basic points of view here from the left, from the point of view of transparency and the interests of honest entrepreneurs, I would point out that if the majority of EU countries still have this 25% limit, it is precisely from the point of view of this additional administrative burden that I find a little problematic if this were to be achieved at this stage. Finnish Entrepreneurs have issued their own opinion, and they have found that the implementation and maintenance of the beneficiary register represents a significant additional administrative burden for Finnish companies. I do not have the expertise to assess this, but I trust this statement by Finnish Entrepreneurs that it represents an additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u139	Mr President! This is what the Administrative Committee is about. Mr Räsänen, who has given some serious thought to the registration threshold and has pointed out these various shortcomings, which are linked to this lower 10%, which has just been pointed out by Mr Räsänen in his own speech. It was also the starting point for the Administrative Committee to follow this uniform EU practice, but it is also worth drawing attention to the fact that the committee made a separate statement in this report that, overall, this situation should be closely monitored. I do not think that this is a very big question to be taken up in this debate. This situation must be followed up in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u140	Madam President! This statement, which has been adopted unanimously by the Administrative Committee — including by Mr Kurvinen — has in fact already been written down in all these sceptic points, and now it was only a matter of not being able to change this, even though it reads the same things as we wrote in the opposition's protest. Here just take this sort of timeout in these views. The question is that there is now a separate register of 10 % ownership rather than 25 %: of course, this is not the case. I think it's the same register, then it's just going to be more detailed and look at those ownership ratios and percentages a little tighter. That's all it is. And that is why, on the basis of its administrative burden, there is then opposition to the whole registration as a whole, that then not even 100% ownership would need to know who actually owns them. This would be a minimisation of the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u141	Madam President! To that extent, from the perspective of Finnish Entrepreneurs, I have to look at the matter: remember what the Finnish Entrepreneurs have said about it, and I quite agree with that. However, Finnish entrepreneurs have a huge number of responsibilities, and so-called tax evasion or any other wrong or even criminal activity in this country is certainly not worth it, which means that it has a short track record. The majority of Finnish companies, some 100,000 of them, are small enterprises with fewer than five persons. If we create an enormous amount of red tape for them, what will we do then?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u144	Mr President! Just as Mr Paatero said here, in any case, this register is on its way. It is now a question of what is being announced and at what borders. This 10% ownership limit is the Commission's proposal that it be calculated there. Negotiations are now under way on how the different Member States will react to it. Unfortunately, there are also such Member States in the EU which are in favour of a fairly high level of concealment of ownership. I hope that Finland does not belong to the group, but that we belong to the group that supports ownership and transparency of the economy, because it is in the interests of an honest entrepreneur, it is in the interests of a functioning economy. It is an advantage for the State to collect tax information. In other words, I hope that Finland will be in a group that supports as much transparency as possible, and not in a group that invents all the means and arguments why it cannot be extended. It is in the interests of an honest entrepreneur that this register works well. This isn't about any new information. This information exists, so I do not think that this will create any very significant additional burden, especially this provision that should be announced if actual
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u145	And also representatives Kurvinen, Semi and Korhonen, and then we'll continue with the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u146	Madam Speaker! Two things. First of all, the whole Chamber, the whole Parliament, shares the concern that we need to catch up with the money of organised crime and terrorists. Crime, like everything else, moves across borders in a free, open world, and we need better cooperation between the authorities, the exchange of information between the authorities, we need better police cooperation. It is precisely in this unanimous statement that the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs starts from living on top of the last in the process of EU development. If there are changes in international cooperation, in European cooperation, there will be changes to this beneficiary border, but let us not put unnecessary stones in the backpack, we will not make it difficult for our SMEs to operate for nothing. — And I must say to Mr Räsänen that I do not believe that: Fathers are stopped by the fact that the beneficiary registrations of Finnish companies are being pulled as tight as possible. I have to say, Mr President, that there is little echoes in these speeches by Mr Sarkkinen of the past that it is a little suspicious at first sight that there must be something vague in the background.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u148	Mr President! In this area of transparency. As the construction sector went so far in transparency that a tax number was introduced, unemployment on the construction side worsened by 25,000 workers. Correspondingly, tax revenue increased by around EUR 1 billion as a result of this open policy. It was all because the books were revised for entrepreneurs and things were working out. That is how each of us wants everything to be handled properly and properly. After all, Finnish entrepreneurs are all honest, you have to admit it when only those accounts are handled properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u149	Mr President! Perhaps a few words should be read on page 8 of the report in relation to this threshold. In other words, the proposed threshold of 25% has not been considered a problem because the use of effective control in the company in practice would require a larger share of ownership or voting power. Most of the data to be registered are estimated to be holdings of between 1 and 3 entrepreneurs, which would already be registered under the 25% threshold. In practice, the ownership of the company should be rather decentralised in order to exercise effective control over the 25% stake, e.g. under the Companies Act. For this reason, smaller holdings have not been considered necessary for the purpose of regulation during the preparation." That is also the view shared by the Committee on Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u150	Madam President! This is a proposal that has given rise to a lot of reflection and debate, because it contains elements that the Finnish people cannot understand. Now this whole insurance package, which is brought into its sphere of responsibility for identification and so on, will cause so many problems that, as they say, you can hear. The pearl and pearl of this proposal is the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It makes sense. It is easy for everyone in Finland to understand the thoughts it contains. At the same time that this proposal was submitted to us, I happened to take out one additional insurance, and then I received an inquiry, which, among other things, had to be filled in to the point that 'are you a political influence'?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u153	Madam President! Let me just say a few words about this preparation. We are therefore implementing the money laundering directive, but there are also many other points here. We have seen in the Committee on Administration that this is a rather complex package which would have required cooperation between different ministries and better lawmaking. If anyone looks at the report, the number of pages of which must be respected with 117 pages without opinions and without dissent, there are 13 pages of the text as a whole, i.e. almost 100 pages coming from amendments to this legislation. The question must be asked whether it is the case that some of the preparatory work on legislation has been carried over from the ministries to the Parliament. I do not believe that it is reasonable or in accordance with traditional practice that some of the laws should be completely rewritten here. As a big picture of what Mr Laukkanen has just referred to, it is now based on a risk assessment of what is the role of a political, influential person or where money laundering is suspected or where there are other offences. That risk assessment was what we dealt with on several occasions in the Administrative Committee, because we had very different views from operators in the sector, such as insurance sellers or gambling operators or, for example, housing companies, where the risk assessment is fulfilled and when it is necessary to verify whether or not a politically influential person is or is close to him. There may be some difficulty in finding those changes in our report, but there have been attempts to write them. Perhaps the most significant point is where the amount has been specified: EUR 2000. In other words, mainly measures such as buying a lottery ticket for EUR 1 50 cent do not imply asking for personal data and political influence. But if there is, in principle, a gambling activity without registration, which is over EUR 2000, in the same way that we, for example, register at a casino, the situation is quite different. In such points the issue can be raised. I understand that it is also the case with travel insurance that this should not be the case in the case of normal baggage insurance, but that insurance companies should carry out their own risk assessment in such a way that some other criteria are met. A third problem was also our example of housing companies. The first version was in some way that if I had a board of directors of a housing company, then all those in that same board of directors would then also be under political influence. It became clear to me that it means the company, not the people on the board. Fortunately, this too was written there. But I must admit, this confusion was not written in advance. Why not? After all, these came up for discussion. Well, now, here — perhaps I am not going to go into these others — the definition of the real beneficiary. We therefore have a situation where we have 300,000 companies in the business register without the information and ownership of the beneficial owner. In any case, they now come within the scope of the register. Now this debate we have here, whether it is 25% or 10%: It may certainly have some cost implications for that register, but the greater part is that simply becomes a register, where the information must be found, and this comes from the European Union, that such a register must be created. That is why the debate on how many euros it is less or more is, in my opinion, a little irrelevant to this point, especially when we look at our own Tax Administration. According to the Companies and Securities Markets Act, control of the company is already — well, it gets something done — at a 5 % limit. The 10% threshold corresponds, inter alia, to the relevant ownership limit used by the Tax Administration. In other words, our own Tax Administration believes that the essential ownership is already realised by 10%. The Tax Administration's grey economy clearing unit also limits its activities to a 10% ownership threshold. That is why I understand that the European Union is also in the process of thinking, and it is also the first proposal that this threshold of real ownership should be 10%. The most interesting thing is, for example, that when we have US people around here, they must, in any case, have a 10% limit, because the US banking system requires a 10% return on ownership. And now there is another system for Finland, although this does not have to be the case. Then these questions. Mr Räsänen raised these other EU countries. Indeed, there are two examples, at least in these neighbouring neighbours, to which we usually compare ourselves in the Nordic countries, of which in Denmark the border is 5% and Norway is proposing 0, so that in Norway in the future all ownership and the final beneficiary should be found in the registers. So perhaps in this and in some other parts of the legislation we want — hopefully not, but now it seems that we do — to shift ourselves to the practices of the countries of southern Europe or central Europe, away from our comparative countries, or from the practices of other Nordic countries. This is what I find regrettable, because Finland has so far been an example country, a model country, to prevent both the shadow economy and the fight against corruption, and transparency has been the way in which this could be done. This statement is good, but this joint opposition protest will therefore change this to 10% of the Community's beneficial owner and, on the other hand, to 10% of its indirect holdings. This is a presentation we will be presenting at a detailed reading, which will probably go next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u154	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This overall reform of the money laundering legislation, which is based on the implementation of the so-called Fourth Money Laundering Directive in our Finnish legal order, has not been, as Mrs Sirpa Paatero said very well, an easy exercise in the work of the committee. This is a very wide-ranging bill, which in practice applies to all Finnish communities, where only money is used and transported in any way — it is such a cross-cutting bill of our economic system and our legal system. Moreover, this regulation has already been quite complex and complex in the past. In my previous life, I had to undergo a lawyer's examination at some point, and I hoped that I would not have to work with these people any more, but it just happened that then, here in Parliament's Administrative Committee, I have done a lot of work on this. I must say that we have indeed been legislators in the Administrative Committee, as Mr Paatero said earlier. A great deal of changes in articles, bigger and smaller changes in arguments, further arguments have been made there, and I would particularly like to thank the whole committee, both the representatives of the government parties and the opposition parties, for their excellent work. Madam Speaker! This is an extremely serious issue. Money can do a lot of bad things. As I said before, we have black and grey money on various continents and they finance a wide range of repulsive crime: drug trafficking, arms trafficking, prostitution, trafficking in human beings, many bad things, and recently more and more international terrorism, from which we have just this week in Manchester a ghastly and sad example. There is absolutely a need for money laundering, for the financing of terrorism to be brought under control and for international, European cooperation. Now I think that the European Union is on the right track, not when it is watching our farmers and our wolves. However, I think that Mrs Antero Laukkanen raised an excellent question and things that many Finns are thinking about. At the moment, the chairman of the board of many limited companies is actually wondering, in many foundations, in many cooperatives, in many other small communities, these questions: what does this mean for us and what kind of things do we now have to register, where are they being put, when do I have to be a real estate agent or a one-woman or a one-man lawyer to report to that clearing house? Admittedly, these obligations simply do not open up from this legislation. The arguments, especially the detailed arguments, are a little more open up, and I hope that now, for example, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Police Board will make such instructions in plain language clear what this means there at the practical level. The key word in this legislation is risk-based. Every community, every body concerned by this law, must itself assess in its own actions the risks of money laundering, precisely in my field of activity, and in accordance with it there must then be mechanisms in its own business and in its own arrangements that the black money cannot be rolled out from there through its own accounts. Perhaps it is this risk-based approach that has been the hottest issue of all -- the so-called PEP theory -- the politically influential people and their loved ones. In the financial sector, for example, it has had to be announced and clarified whether a person has been politically influential abroad, but now, for example, MPs and Supreme Court judges in Finland also come under this regulation, and then all those who are bound by this legislation must know whether their client is such a politically influential person or whether he or she is politically influential. Well, this has now aroused among the citizens the fears, justifiable fears among consumers, of which Mr Laukkanen said that this means that every time I go out and get boat insurance, car insurance, when I put on a long bet on that R-kiosk, perhaps in my home town Kauhava, that when I stay there with that lottery ticket, I have to tell you whether it is politically influential or not. Even the Government's proposal was not aimed at making these policy issues and PEP issues at every turn. But since the government's proposal was rather unclear, we decided in committee, with the good help of the Ministry of the Interior, to make a new paragraph in Chapter 3, Section 13, on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In Chapter 3, Section 13, we introduced a new paragraph 2, which states explicitly that each sector and every company can assess the question of these policies and the question of PEP through their own risks. Then I can say to Mr Laukkanen, and indeed to all the communities that are required to apply this law, that on page 18 of this committee's report, the detailed explanatory statement, it is stated explicitly that 'The new Article 2 proposed by the committee means that all notifying parties must have risk-based assessment procedures. In the context of this procedure, the notifying party may, on the basis of his risk assessment, assess for himself the circumstances in which political influence needs to be established and when it can be left to a case-by-case judgement". Then there are other examples. But could you say, in plain language as a downtown lawyer now, that this new paragraph 2 means that if, for example, gambling or selling insurance is a normal business in which laundering money is a theoretical idea, then it is not always necessary to ask the grandmother at every turn whether you are, Grandma, now a high judge or whether you are a high political gentleman? You don't have to ask. But then the company and its community must understand its own business, that if there is going to be such an abnormal activity, if there is an abnormal investment, if there is spending money, then, if necessary, we must find out whether there is a politically influential person involved and whether there could be corruption or money laundering behind this. An example of this in the detailed explanatory statement in the committee's report is on page 18 that, when, for example, you normally do not have to ask any policy questions in non-life insurance, then if there is such a situation that even if a foreign person takes out insurance for a value property or a value building in Finland, then there may be situations where there is a risk-based need for a little more clarification of its person's background. Mr President! I dare say that we are in agreement on these changes. Perhaps that last conversation gave us the impression that we disagreed on everything. But we agreed on these changes. It can be said that our common sense in the Administrative Committee won, and we now have a strict law to prevent money laundering and terrorist activities, but not to make life difficult for ordinary honest Finns. Mr President! I will not bore you to death with these things by repeating everything I have said about this registration limit for beneficiaries, but perhaps a couple of things I will mention here. That government proposal states — whether it was some 300,000 entities whose data are now missing from the registers — that that information needs to be clarified. It's gonna cost you to build that register. The more information there is about the smaller beneficiaries, owners and operators that need to be put and updated in the register, the more costs will be borne by the State. Of course, everyone can wonder whether it is sensible to spend government money on such bureaucracy and anyone who has been involved in any business or economic community governments knows that it always costs something to fill out the paperwork and the registers. That secretarial working time and assistant working time, the working time of the financial administration, it always costs something. I agree with Mr Paatero that Finland must continue to be a model country in the fight against crime and corruption. But such a foolish model student as I would say now in the European Union does not seem to me to be worth it in any situation. I would like Romania and Bulgaria to put their own basics in order before we start putting huge stones in the backpack of small Finnish entrepreneurs. After all, Romania had just such a bill that fortunately fell, that the corruption of politicians was decriminalised in practice. That's the kind of guy we have in the EU. I don't think it's a good idea for us to be too many model students. Mr President! To conclude, I welcome these changes to the forum rules, that these complaints, which are made in accordance with this law, all go to the administrative court and do not bounce from one court to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u155	Mr President! For this eradication of the black economy: When everything is being fought together against it, I have remained to ponder over this statement of ours that this is what has happened. When the government parties did not accept this EU possibility to report a 10% ownership base to the beneficiary register and compare this to a 25% ownership threshold, it is an opportunity and a gap in its ability to make a black economy and thus provide an additional opportunity. Another thing that had previously been discussed was to take control of the register of possibilities, i.e. we have a small leak in the existence of this kind of opportunity, where the gray economy is taken forward and tried to allow tax evasion. It has also come to mind that it is now time for a parliamentary re-blowing of such a group that would go through our legislation, how to deal effectively with the discipline of the grey economy, and all-looking financial crime would be brought under control in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u156	Mr President! Indeed, this legislative package is a necessary, albeit very complex, package in which the real aim is to prevent the financing of money laundering and terrorism. We are trying to combine two things here: on the one hand, to prevent this particular criminal activity, but not too much to make life difficult for ordinary people either. Some attempt has now been made to keep these in hand, and this is where the Committee on Administrative Affairs has done a very good job, and we must thank all those involved in the committee for this. There was quite a lot of rewriting by the committee of these arguments, which is that I saw a little more or less that about half of it has become new compared to what the government's proposal was originally when it came here. This public interest has right now been linked to the political influence of the people or their immediate circle and how this risk-based assessment should then be carried out by the various actors involved. This is where Mr Kurvine went through this whole and there is no need to be afraid of a lotteries when you go to R-kiosk to buy the lottery numbers and then ask whether you are perhaps politically influential or close to someone like this. They are, then, completely different cases where that is what must be said. The big question then relates to this percentage threshold for the actual beneficiaries, and that is what has been the subject of this debate here. There is a slight difference of opinion that, now that the register is in any case made, the opposition would have thought that it would have been possible to go directly to the 10%, which would also have given a signal of this openness. The government had good reasons for not doing so, but now, of course, it hopes that this proposal for a statement, which was put here unanimously in the report, will then be followed up and considered in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u157	Mr President! There is a debate here on the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, on the law on the FIU and on certain related laws. Although strong speeches have been heard in the Chamber, I am not surprised that there are not too many people in the gallery at the moment. In this report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we stated that the government's proposal in question is a broad and complex legislative reform and contains a great deal of new regulation and new obligations, both for those who carry out the controls, for businesses and for those who are obliged to report. The Committee on Administrative Affairs therefore considers it important that the legislative reform should also be adequately informed and instructed. Even in this Chamber, during the last debate, we have heard the impressions of what has been in the public debate on the government's proposal in recent months, and it is of course essential that, especially now that the government's proposal has also been corrected at the time of the Administrative Committee, these misinterpretations are eliminated. The committee also considers it necessary to monitor the functioning of the law and, where necessary, to take the necessary steps as soon as possible, for example in the context of the national implementation of the amendment to the Money Laundering Directive referred to above. We have had extensive consultations in committee and indeed we have produced a report that is well over 100 pages long. We have addressed a number of ambiguities which we have clarified in such a way that there will be no such wide range or scope for interpretation of the law. These clarifications concerned, inter alia, insurance against damage and liability, customer registers and identification of gambling, in particular risk-based identification and identification of PEP persons, i.e. persons with political influence. Mr President! To this point, which was just the subject of the debate in this Chamber. According to the report submitted to the Administrative Committee, the beneficial owner has been defined in the government proposal in accordance with this Fourth Money Laundering Directive, which means that the threshold for registration of beneficiary information in the trade register is higher than 25% of ownership or voting rights. The Administrative Committee, as well as the preparation of the Government's proposal, has also considered the lower registration threshold proposed by the Commission in its proposal to amend the directive. The proposed threshold of 25 % has not been considered a problem because, in practice, the exercise of effective control over an undertaking would require a higher percentage of ownership or voting power, considering that if a company holds a holding of a few or 10 %, then the owner would not have such a voting power or the possibility to influence its company's activities and therefore the risks associated with money laundering would not be so great. The impact assessment of the Government's proposal on the development of a business register maintained by the Patent and Registration Board is indeed based on this 25% registration threshold. At present, there is no relevant information on ownership and voting rights, so new information content will be needed there, and the estimated amount missing from this register is the ownership and beneficiary data of some 300,000 companies. The government's proposal on the prevention of money laundering is also about financial implications. Therefore, the cost effects contained in the government proposal were also based on this 25% registration threshold, and with these and the arguments already heard, the Administrative Committee stated that the limit of 25% was maintained. For the rest, I agree with what Mr Kurvise has just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u158	Mr President! A lot of good conversation has been heard here. One practical example of everyday life: Our local bank’s long-term corporate finance manager offered coffee today, on his last working day, in honor of retirement. The interview he gave on the change in banking activity over the past 42 years was quite shocking to read. According to him, the common sense of banking has completely disappeared due to strict regulation and meticulous background. The most striking part of the interview was to read that there is no point in making a loan of less than EUR 100000, because meticulous regulation and notification at every location impose too much unreasonable costs on the bank. In view of these practical remarks made by the banker, this report by the committee is still quite generous for common sense. Money laundering should therefore be prevented and the opportunities made difficult to launder money, but honest business should not be prevented. Similarly, the lottery ticket must still be available without the identification system on the counter of the kiosk. In terms of transparency and identification, a reasonable middle ground must be found which does not unduly increase regulation and declarations, but allows its everyday sense to be used. A more rigorous implementation of this complex money laundering directive would have made business almost impossible for many.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u159	Mr President! I am very grateful to the representatives of Kurvis and Paatero for their very patient explanation of these difficult issues, and I believe that the people who are listening to this will also appreciate this debate, where many pains have been resolved very well. I was still wondering whether, in this committee debate, some of these travel insurance policies had been reviewed: if you happen to take travel insurance at the airport and then put this information on it, will you miss the insurance if it means that there is a person in the vicinity who is politically active — a citizen wrote about this and asked about it. At the airport he wondered about this procedure, got into trouble there and then had to put it in order that there was no such thing in the vicinity, even though there was, and wondered what this situation really was. How'd this turn out?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u160	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 6/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u161	Mr President! Reducing the frequency of surveys is one part of how people respond to their opinions and ideas. Unnecessary regulation will be dismantled and regulations will be streamlined. Now, periodic roadworthiness tests for new cars will not be carried out until four years from now and then on a two-year cycle, at intervals, until the car is ten years old, and then every year. Periodic checks are carried out on 2.5 million people and vans each year, and citizens spend about EUR 160 million on roadworthiness tests. After all, the aim of the survey is to ensure that cars and vehicles and, of course, trailers and other equipment are in good condition and safe when travelling on the road. This reduction in the number of periodic roadworthiness tests is indeed an important part of the deregulation, but above all it is an indication that vehicle technology and automation have brought certainty to traffic and safety, so that even the EU directive can be applied to the fact that we too in Finland fulfil the obligation to have too strictly regulated the roadworthiness tests in Finland so far. So we'll loosen it up a little bit, but we'll stick to the limits of safety. Mr President! The committee discussed the reasons for getting through the survey and how to bounce from it. These criteria were reviewed with the Finnish Transport Safety Agency and it was concluded that, using the current criteria, this technical level will hopefully remain present in the survey.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u162	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the vehicle law, the law on roadworthiness testing and the law on the organisation of individual vehicle approval. Provisions for the implementation of the new Directives on roadworthiness tests, roadside inspections and registration certificates of the European Union would be added to the laws. Among other things, a new section on the classification of defects and deficiencies identified in the periodic survey would be added to the law. The changes proposed in the proposal are largely to be welcomed and, on the other hand, are very much to be expected, given that we are a member of the EU. I think it would be appropriate to carefully consider the time intervals for roadworthiness tests, both in terms of the improved condition and quality of vehicles and in terms of road safety. More categories of vehicles are currently being surveyed in Finland than the directives require, and this should be changed, but reducing the frequency of periodic roadworthiness tests for older vehicles reduces road safety. I also welcome the fact that the interval between roadworthiness tests for vehicles used in professional transport will remain one year. It is the right time frame for a vehicle running at least 100000 km per year. If the periodic test interval is extended to two years, it is difficult for the vehicle keeper to remember the correct test time, especially when the paper technical part is no longer included in the vehicles. For this reason, consideration should be given to how best to facilitate the recollection of time intervals. Once the periodic inspection has been forgotten, the vehicle is banned from driving. In the event of supervision, the driver shall be punished and the vehicle shall be prevented from being used by removing registration plates. I welcome the fact that roadside checks will include EU-level criteria for inspection of loading and that the results of roadside inspections will be transmitted to the State of registration of the vehicle. It would be interesting to see what happens to these reports, particularly in the countries of southern Europe. As the Committee also points out, it is possible, in the case of motorcycles, to abandon roadworthiness tests and to promote the safety of motorcycling by means of alternative road safety measures. If we really wanted to improve the safety of a motorcyclist, we would have to define by law what kind of accessories you can ride on a motorcycle. I believe that all driving equipment — helmet, jacket, trousers and shoes — should be CE-approved. At the moment, drivers can be seen in quite varied outfits. Of course, awake drivers drive in safe outfits, but also shorts and short sleeves are seen especially in urban areas. I've been to more than one crash site, where proper driving gear would have saved the driver's death, even if he wasn't injured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u163	Mr President! We must always welcome the streamlining of standards when it is on the table here in Parliament, and it is worth it. This work is now being done and in the long term, as we move from a little such a standardised society to a smoother society as a result of digitalisation. A certain streamlining of the survey — when we know that cars are developing and the roads are improving — can be done. In the field of transport, there has also been a lot of streamlining of lower-level standards, including by Traf, and of course we must continue along that path. I'm supporting the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u164	Mr President! Indeed, there is no requirement for periodic inspections of motorcycles. The committee held a wide-ranging debate on mopeds and noted that an annual review of these vehicles, such as professional vehicles, was necessary. Mr Kulmala made a good point about when to take a look, how to remember, four years have passed or two years have passed since the last survey. In practice, at the moment, this works very market-driven and on market forces' terms, so that we are reminded by more than one letter through several survey companies of when the vehicle is approaching, and many offers of mail will come out before the survey deadline expires. ♪ So if you want something like this ♪ A reminder made by the Finnish Transport Safety Agency might be possible, but it must be quite unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u165	Mr President! Once again, from this opposition, we must congratulate the government on the fact that these many normbits are quite successful and make a smile on the lips of an ordinary person, that they are clearly aimed at the practical life and make it easier for them to do so. The extension of the reporting periods is a welcome reform and is in line with current developments. It is a pity that the role of motorcycles in this area was now not subject to inspection, and I would have considered it very important. Especially if it were still limited to motorcycles of a certain size, which already correspond to a small car of their weight class and power class, this would have been entirely justified. I hope that we can come back to this at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u166	Mr President! Indeed, the government's intention is, of course, to dismantle bureaucracy and to create standards that are fluent and favour the economy. One important programme of the government has, of course, been, for example, to reduce the car tax by rejuvenating the car fleet. By the way, when new cars are purchased, their need for roadworthiness tests is much fewer, because every car brand today requires that when the warranty is in force, it should be used strictly in fixed-term maintenance. In those maintenances, the car is going through very carefully. Every one of us has these experiences and we know that it works really well. And the other thing is that when the equipment of the current car survey has evolved enormously and the working methods have also evolved, it is quite natural that unnecessary bureaucracy, unnecessary work should be removed and focused on what really benefits road transport. We need to take care of the condition of cars, but let us focus on improving roads even more effectively in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u167	Mr President! Representative Vehkaperä brought up a reminder of the periodic survey. At least I haven't had one in that county of Rääkkylä in North Karelia in ten years, and yet I have more than one vehicle in use. It may be that somewhere in Finland this works, but at least not there in North Karelia. Mr Hoskonen then spoke about this periodic survey and its importance. I have also been checking vehicles that come directly from the gate of the survey office. After they are checked, they are not always in the condition they should be. I would see it important that this kind of activity could also be continued even after the inspection survey, so to speak, because there are a variety of testing companies in Finland and not all of them are carried out according to their instructions as they should be. This is, of course, due to the fact that competition is fierce and needs to be given customers, but road safety above should, however, go on in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u168	Mr President! There is one further point that is also very important and that is that the law on vehicle roadworthiness testing should be amended in such a way as to repeal the independence requirements of operators carrying out registration, modification and switching tests. A similar amendment would also be made to the Act on the organisation of individual vehicle approval. This would allow operators to carry out such surveys in addition to other vehicle related business. In other words, this will make things smoother when you can take your car to maintenance, get it fitted with accessories, and they can be accepted there right away and you don't have to go there to check them out. This is a very important matter in terms of time: you can leave the car in service, you can check it out and you can finish it. A once-in-a-lifetime change.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u169	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-05-24-ps-59.u170	Mr President! Motorways of the sea are an extremely important route from Finland to the world, 90% of our exports go by sea and 80% of our imports. Therefore, measures to improve maritime safety, maritime transport and ports are of the utmost importance, and here is one indication that we want to improve the digitality of maritime transport and the digitality and electronicity of ports. It therefore improves logistics and creates economic growth, but above all this security aspect is extremely important here. When the committee dealt with the government's proposal that masters and masters of ships should in future be obliged to report accidents and incidents in connection with the use of the vessel to the Finnish Transport Safety Agency, this was seen as important and, above all, as an aid to this announcement, the fact that ship's logbooks will be kept in electronic form in the future. Therefore, this does not require large, high costs, but brings the vessels into the digital circuit and pairs. While we are still involved through the IMO in the conventions of these international maritime organisations, internationalism will also be included in this, we will be involved in all these agreements where this obligation to notify will be included, and this electronic maintenance of ship's logbooks will also be possible. And this applies not only to Finns, but to all ships in our waters.
