ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal on the Education Fund, which is now being discussed in Parliament, relating to the reform of vocational education and training and the entry into force of the law on vocational education and training at the beginning of next year, is, of course, well founded and fully supported. But here I would like to raise the matter raised by the committee in the report. In fact, the committee notes that the amendment proposed by the Board of Directors excludes persons who complete an old qualification in 2017, but only in 2018 will they receive this diploma. The committee therefore proposes in its report that the amendment of the law be supplemented in such a way that, in the above-mentioned case, a person who completes his or her degree during 2017 but receives a certificate in 2018 would be entitled to a vocational degree scholarship, provided, of course, that the other conditions for awarding the scholarship are met. This amendment to the government proposal tabled by the committee in its report is important so that the entry into force of the bill does not result in the loss of the right to a vocational scholarship. Taking into account, among other things, the change in working life and the importance of vocational education and training, this vocational scholarship is an important financial contribution to the development of professional skills. President! That is what I wanted to say in this speech. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u3	Mr President! This bill simplifies the grant of a vocational training scholarship from the Education Fund to all graduates who meet the other conditions of the scholarship, i.e. 5 years of employment and 68 years of age at most. Even if the increase rate paid for the first qualification is abolished, the requirement of a five-year work history would remain the incentive for lifelong learning and retraining of those already in employment. The committee's amendment proposal focuses on those students who, with this bill, would not be able to take part in the drop-outs — students who complete their old-fashioned qualifications during 2017 but only receive their certificates in 2018. Therefore, it is important to change the law’s entry into force rule so that a degree obtained before the law comes into force entitles a degree scholarship even if a diploma was awarded in 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u4	Mr President! This bill is a typical example of the fact that there is currently a great deal of legislation in this house that crosses the laws in the various committees, and when one law is changed, there may be these interlopers. Although the whole of this reform of education is in a similar situation, which will then lead to these same clarifications on the unemployment benefit side. In that sense, I hope that the representatives will be very careful in their own committees that these changes in entry into force will not become unnecessary drops. In this situation, it was possible to correct it in committee, but it is not always possible because the laws come so quickly. I hope, in that sense, that we will have a slightly better chance of predicting the proposals that come here, and also of dealing with them carefully and not running through, as is sometimes the case with budgetary laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u5	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u6	Mr President! In Finland, almost 500 suspected occupational diseases caused by non-infectious biological factors are identified each year. However, until now there have been shortcomings in the Labour Safety Act. It is great that this government proposal is now addressing those shortcomings. I consider the obligation for employers to report biological hazards to be essential because of occupational safety factors. A tripartite preparatory working group has been involved in the preparation of the Government’s proposal, so it has the support of both employers and employees. I am pleased that the committee adopted a unanimous report on this issue, and for that I thank the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u7	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 8/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u8	Mr President! This is a convention on the social impact and importance of cultural heritage. This agreement also highlights individuals and communities in addition to targets. Attention is also drawn to the fact that cultural heritage can act as an important common resource and that its collective impact is very high. It must be possible for all citizens to learn about their cultural heritage. The expert hearing pointed out that the document's cultural heritage, its preservation and preservation, is being given a little less attention in the proposal, so attention needs to be paid to it. For example, documents in national archives and other archives are important and, when the framework agreement is implemented, these issues must be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u9	Mr President! This is, in fact, a very important piece of legislation which will be adopted in this context. Finland is having a centenary year, 100 years. What would Finland be without culture, cultural heritage? We can think about it ourselves. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs also stressed the importance of local authorities in preserving their cultural heritage. I think it's worth taking that very seriously. We are also the majority of municipal decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u10	Mr President! As has been said, this is a very important, important issue, cultural heritage. Mr Gustafsson mentioned quite nicely that this is a good one for this very year, when we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of our beloved country. In this context, I would actually like to remind you of this 100th anniversary of a few of the SDP's ideas, which also relate to culture. In our own alternative budget, we proposed, among other things, the correction of the National Theatre, and this is where the booth was later taken by the government. We were very pleased about that. In addition to that, on the 100th anniversary, we proposed an increase in veteran money, and now it was good that the government has also taken a catch from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u11	Mr President! It is hoped that this will go equally with praise from this Chamber forward, because this government proposal, which is based on this framework agreement, is, in principle, unique. It does not leave the institutions, it leaves us and the communities and, above all, highlights that aspect. It also stresses that it is not just a matter for one administrative sector but for all administrative sectors. It's from early childhood education. It's from schools. It is for the NGOs, it is for all of us. From Tampere, I will take an example that reflects the spirit of this presentation: Tampere has done so that when there may be a historic house there, this house is not just to be maintained by the city, but to assume that non-governmental organisations can act as cultural gods. This is the kind of activity that we hope will continue to be more and more throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u12	Mr President! As has already been said, this is a very important issue for a 100-year-old Finland: it is a framework agreement for the Council of Europe, which contains a great many key principles and important issues that affect Finnish society in so many ways, in many areas, in different parts of Finland, in rural areas, in cities, and also, as the previous speaker has mentioned, for the work of organisations, this is important. When the articles of the framework agreement are of a rather general nature but binding on the one hand, it is important that these principles are subsequently clarified by concrete programmes and then, if necessary, taken forward by legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u13	Mr President! In reply to Mr Viitanen, when he spoke about the veteran budget: Of course, it is good that the Finnish Parliament is jointly concerned about matters and the adequacy of veteran rehabilitation and appropriations. The way in which we fight for who has already done what in this matter must of course remain for the common good of Parliament and the Finnish people. It is good to note, however, that the government programme and policy guidelines of the Sipilä Government have been precisely that the money for veterans must be sufficient, and so, through budgets, amending budgets and that policy, this has been the case. For the first time, veteran organisations have also expressed their satisfaction at the fact that the funds have been able to meet the needs, and this is also one part of the Finnish cultural heritage and, in a certain way, the management of the common affairs of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u14	Mr President! I believe that the opposition's proposals should not be seen as being the subject of anyone's fight, but also because good ideas can be taken up. It was very important, for example, for these veteran money, that we have made a significant increase, and we will continue to propose that these be taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u17	Mr President! I'm sure no representative of the Veterans will be able to put a feather in the hat for years. In fact, things could have been much better delivered by now. All the veterans of our wars are at least 92.5 years old, and the fact that they still have the disability rate, which then provides a little more care, should be removed and all veterans of our wars put on the same line and all the necessary services for them. But this Finland 100 years ago: This group, which has defined the money that is given to these various celebrations, had also wanted a few thousand euros of coffee money for the celebrations of veterans in Louhisaari. It didn't come, and really that money would have been just the 2,000. If the honor of veterans were to be considered, it would have been desirable for that too to have been granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u18	Mr President! Yes The cape is now trying to talk black into blue and white. In your time, there was a completely different way of dealing with veteran money. When the Social Democrats were Minister of Finance, each year veteran money was cut from what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health put forward. Now there is a different voice on the watch when the Minister of Finance is from the assembly. Minister Orpo, as the first Minister for Finance, will present this money in the budget to the level at which it has been proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in its assessment. So the money is at the level needed, without unnecessary theatre of what is being cut from, and then, with great mercy, the parliament will return them there. Now they're on the level they're supposed to be. Minister Orpo has also followed closely the joint parliamentary formal decision that when the money is not sufficient, that is, if the need is greater than that of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, a proposal for an additional allocation will be introduced. And this is what he has done: just last week we had a debate here, where Minister Orpo presented his own amending budget and an additional proposal for the Veterans rehabilitation allowance, so that every veteran gets the care he needs, and also the wives of veterans. Representative Elomaa has been doing a good job on veteran affairs for a long time. I very much appreciate that and support this idea of the degree of disability that he has raised. This government has lowered them, but we should give up that limit altogether and guarantee every veteran the same rehabilitation in the future, regardless of their disability,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u21	I will now give Mr Viitanen a reply, but let me say that we are talking about a very important issue, but we are a long way from what we are dealing with here. I hope that the next speeches will focus on this debate on European cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u22	Mr President! I do find it very regrettable that people here are trying to give us the impression that we are politicising on such a matter. You can watch the Finland 100 presentations of our alternative budget. This whole thing has to do with the fact that we had certain proposals in which we saw that it was sensible to support national culture during the centenary year, to value the veterans of our wars and so on. We fully agree that these adequate appropriations must be secured, we have acted jointly and we are also pleased that the government has cancelled these planned cuts, the index freezes. That is what I explicitly said. And I hope that the disability limits mentioned by Mr Heinonen will also be corrected by this government. We will certainly be involved in this cooperation. However, we are now in the opposition and are doing what we can to bring forward both culture and veterans. I believe that this is a common issue and I do not quite agree with the view of the government parties that no opposition should come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u23	Mr President! Back to the tracks, that is, the cultural heritage. Representative Viitanen suggested one month, when children and young people could then visit cultural heritage sites there. I would prefer to suggest a cultural and exercise path – when, for example, we have and I think Turku has one – where all age groups always visit each year as part of our basic education in their own neighbourhoods. Then understanding your cultural heritage would also be part of teaching. If those old houses with many wonderful stories from their own place were part of school curricula, local curricula, it would also be part of our teaching system and everyone would get involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u24	Mr President! At first, however, I shall return to the fight. We were indeed discussing Finnish culture, cultural heritage and Finland's centenary year. Then both of them here from the right and left very easily told me that I do not fight, you fight. But somehow it feels like people have come to us in the gallery to hear that we are always here to do people's business and not to polish the shield with who threw the best idea. But I would like to thank the assembly for the fact that this disadvantage may go ahead, because it is very important. I agree with Elomaa, a representative of the Finns of Finland, that surely everyone has to look in the mirror over the years that the matter is still in the debate. This should be out of the debate by now, and everything should be in order by now. But this cultural heritage itself: I would also like to have discussions with schools and elsewhere about what is Finnish culture, what it contains, what is patriotism, what is Finnishism, what is the will to defend the country and what is this kind of thing that is connected to our beloved country. As a basic Finn myself, I have often encountered patriotism, very hostile attitudes toward myself. It is often even said that I am in some way — well, I don’t even bother to use those terms here, but a strange person. I think it would be a good thing if we also reminded ourselves that patriotism and patriotism and the defence of our cultural heritage are love for our country. That would be a very important topic for discussion during the centenary year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u25	Mr President! It would be nice to share the previous speaker’s ideas on the importance of patriotism. But I asked to speak on the issue of cultural heritage. However, it is quite a short journey to a culture of discussion. And with all the friendship with Mr Heino, when you brought up these veteran issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u28	Mr President! Who brought the veterans into this conversation? Mr Viitanen from behind Mr Gustafsson. He's the one who brought them up to this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u31	Mr President! I would like Mr Heinonen to have listened a little more closely to what I have just heard from Mr Gustafsson, whom I have appreciated, about these past years and how things have been done. There has always been a common desire in the Parliament to secure the funding of veterans and they have always been able to be secured — but not at an adequate level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u36	Mr President! When we talk about cultural heritage, we cannot ignore the fact that today is the day of Finnish literature. It's a big day. When Mr Viitanen raised the idea that museums could be open for one month, for example, during the year, it is appropriate to consider it. In England, for example, museums are always open free of charge. However, it is not a problem-free one, it has its own drawbacks, but nothing prevents us from experimenting. On a literary day, it is also good to think about literacy, the importance of literacy for general education, media literacy, security perspective, disinformation and things in this direction. It goes through the whole of society in all generations. And, in fact, when you referred to this freedom of payment in relation to museums, it must of course be borne in mind that the Finnish library is excellent, well-liked. There will be a new Central Library on the other side of the road, and reading and libraries will be free of charge even according to the new library law. Since culture is such a source of debate, I would like to throw the idea that some of us would be interested in making a discussion initiative, even if it is the theme of the 'timely debate on culture and literature and reading'.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u37	Mr President! It's a good thing the veterans' business is on the table. However, I am concerned that, although this year will receive the EUR 11.6 million by means of an amending budget, next year's budget will be cut. That's where the rehabilitation budget will be cut by the $5 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u40	Mr President! With regard to this proposal, I would like to say one text: 'The cultural heritage community means those people who value certain aspects of cultural heritage that they want to maintain and pass on to future generations within the framework of public action'. Well, we care. Now there is a debate about who has received some kind of increase in veteran money. I think that this is a little absurd in a certain way, especially in the context of this issue or in the year of our celebration. Of course, the government, the opposition and every representative can make proposals, initiatives and they must be taken seriously. But I would like to say that we are pleased that, during this government, Prime Minister Sipilä's line and the whole policy of government, and according to Parliament's common line, we are required to have sufficient veteran funds, even in the coming year, if necessary, through an amending budget. The fact that the decline in the number of veterans in practice means that there will be changes in the structure of the budget is another matter, but that is sufficient for each veteran. Many municipalities have also invested more in and invested more in the management of these matters, and that is a good thing. Mr. Speaker! A great opportunity in connection with this cultural heritage issue to also highlight the structure of our domestic culture. Taike, the art committees in the provinces have actually now experienced quite a change in the cultural revolution, which, by the way, Minister Arhinmäki started at the time. The decision-making process is now fully focused on Helsinki's Taike framework. The name of the regional artists is no longer a mere exterior; they no longer work in the provinces but work in the provinces with Helsinki-led cultural work. Similarly, the decision to grant grants has in practice been transferred from the provinces, from each province sitting here to Taike's decision in Helsinki. At least I'm asking if it's right, if it's the right Finnish cultural policy, because it's worth it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u41	Mr President! In the Finland 100 theme and in this cultural presentation, which Mr Viitanen has presented here: I will be happy to join in and discuss how this could be done. The museum is still very functional, especially for young people, but also for older people. It's where you learn. It's where you can fold. Among other things, we were at the Moomin Museum with several representatives drawing Moomin pictures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u44	Mr President! I am very pleased that Pauli Kiuru and Arto Pirttilahti have now taken this free-of-charge idea of a museum month. Yes, Pirkanmaa has great cultural thinking. Surely many other representatives in their own province think a lot of warm ideas for such things. I would also be particularly pleased to note that you mentioned the Moomin Museum, where we also went to try drawing together and to explore the fine art of Tove Jansson. There at Tampere House For example, in the first three months of the Moomin museum there have been nearly 40,000 visitors, a huge sum. This is precisely how much culture can also be a factor of growth and attraction to the regions in a certain way. A great deal of research has been carried out into the huge impact of employment on the various cultural festivals, all of them. It has been examined how many euros each museum visitor leaves for the economy of the municipality and the surrounding area. In this way, not only is culture a fine self-worth and an important maintainer of mental well-being, but it is also very wise to support it because it contributes to growth, employment and all-inclusive positive sentiments and opportunities, but also economically. That is why I am very pleased about the debate that this is now about to end up with, which is why we would like to promote cultural issues here as well. Mr Kiuru's idea of this topical debate on culture in Finland's centenary year is not too bad, by the way. This is the kind of initiative we could take. A good example, President, is also, for example, the question of parliamentary cooperation on culture. Last season, at the end of that period, I proposed double quotes, and that was what happened. With the common will of the Parliament, I was able to justify this motion because it was a parliamentary request that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u45	Mr President! I now think that this culture of discussion is as it would seem to be more and more widely. On this proposal by Mr Kiuru, that we should take a debate initiative in honor of 100-year-old cultural Finland, I would perhaps now like to say that as a long-term member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I am prepared to catch the catch. When there are a lot of cultural friends in the hall from different groups, we get a broad basis and have a discussion. There are many reasons from a cultural point of view to joy. In a few days, the Unknown Soldier will be coming to his premiere. Some of us have seen an extremely high-quality Ikitie film, which is part of the history of Finland, the history of Finns. When music was raised here, we can also be proud of our versatile music training, which includes children from different social groups. It is very equal and we are grateful for the fact that Finland has perhaps the best Symphony orchestral leaders in the world at the moment and so on, this list can be continued. We would then take new cultural successes towards Finland, perhaps even with its discussion initiative. Let us get back to this matter in concrete terms together.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u46	Mr President! It has been gratifying to hear this debate on culture in this Chamber, although it has already slipped on other subjects, but it is good that we have returned to this culture. This committee's report states that cultural heritage will not remain and will not develop as a common resource if the accumulation and management of capital is not constantly taken care of. And so it is, culture also needs resources. Quite often, when the budget is made either at municipal level or here in Parliament, there is a desire to touch cultural resources, even though they are quite marginal in terms of the overall picture. But they play an extremely important role in its culture, precisely in the fact that it continues to accumulate, develops and has the potential to produce, develop a new culture. And, in fact, in this Chamber too — it has not been a long time since the budget was discussed — there will be cuts to the cultural side, both in terms of the index and in other words: the sums are extremely small in the overall budget of the state, but they are important for museums and orchestras as well as theatres to be able to continue to function fully. I would like to see this spirit of debate — in which everyone now very much understands the importance of its culture, its intrinsic value as part of our identity and our common memory, and also its welfare effects — reflected in the point now that the budget is being discussed. It is also gratifying that the system of state subsidies is being reformed and wants to involve new cultural players, but it should also be pointed out that it will then need additional resources. This would have to be involved from the outset in the debate on the reform of this system of state subsidies for cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u47	Mr President! I would like to join in the wishes of this Finnish literary day and also remind you that today is the birthday of Aleksis Kive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u50	Mr President! The culture of debate is also culture, and this debate has, in many respects, been commendable and heartwarming. Feedback on this debate initiative, which could be jointly undertaken, has come across regional boundaries and across party boundaries, and I am therefore going to take up a debate on the topical debate on culture in this House. I would also like to remind you that the promotion of culture is a number of major projects, including the state, and at the moment we are anxiously awaiting a third additional budget proposal from the government to guarantee funding for the future central arena in Tampere, which will be an important target for both sport and culture in the coming years when construction is launched.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u51	Mr President! After all, the debate is about the social importance of cultural heritage, and it was a little confusing when this debate, at this early stage of the debate, expanded into the funding for the rehabilitation of veterans. Indeed, it is very good — and I am sure we are all in agreement in this Chamber — that the funds for rehabilitation of their veterans must be at an adequate level. There has been practically talk so far, but fortunately there are also actions. But here's the thing. There are many kinds of culture, and I am sure that if we start talking about culture on a broad scale, it will take a great deal of time. In addition to these museums, music, literature, we must also take into account the sport culture, which is extremely important to our entire Finnish society. In practice, Finns are also a sports people and have always been a sports people. It must also be remembered this centenary of 100 years of independence. What Mr Viitanen has already raised in that initial debate, that is, this free month of museums, I would like to see the municipalities and cities also catch and take it forward in their own municipalities and cities. In my home town of Lappeenranta, we have virtually monthly free Fridays for museums, and that has proved to be a good thing. But in the centenary of Finland's independence, I would like to raise a few cultural issues and such good things: the first is President P. E. Svinhufvud Home Museum, which has now been restored in Luumä and will be completed in practice this year. That is a very good thing. The second one I would like to raise is the Salpaline,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u52	Mr President! Finally, I thought about taking up the big challenge of the near future, which, for example, was precisely what Mr Mikkonen had to say in his own good speech, namely that in the very near future we will be facing this state aid reform of culture, which is currently being prepared. Of course, it is very important because it provides the widest possible guarantee of the financial basis for cultural actors, and what is absolutely essential is what has been said here about the fact that it is very difficult to do so, so to speak, in a cost-neutral way, which is the starting point here, because it knows that easy proposals are not coming from there. That is why I would like to see some wisdom in this context, however, that not only can we find effective, good structures and perhaps a great deal of cooperation between the various players, but we also have a certain view that in this context we can strengthen that cultural funding base as a whole. I have often used the example, President, that if the state budget is such a beach ball, then culture funding is the size of a ping-pong ball, and there are not much cuts to save that beach ball. It's a ping-pong ball when you snap out of it, but the world's not going to be saved. On the contrary, the air is going out. That is why I think it is very wise to fund the small sums of money that culture requires, both at the national level and in the municipalities as a whole. And I do not think that this debate today in this House leaves it unclear that there is a good will here for the representatives to act in accordance with the fact that culture, together with all the funding it deserves, and that we will take good care of it in the future and in the future. As far as this VOS is concerned, there are certainly many new ways to be found. Last season it was good, for example, to use such a system for the distribution of these central government shares.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u53	Mr President! It is a great thing that we are now having a cultural debate in the Chamber, and I do give my warm support to the topical debate on culture. In this Chamber, we certainly do not talk too much about culture, but far too rarely. However, it is not up to Parliament to define what kind of Finnish culture is, but to leave the content to the cultural field itself, but we must discuss these conditions and also the funding of culture. It is therefore important that cultural speech is not only soft talk and public talk about the appreciation of culture, but that the state budget is also linked to how much culture is funded, and this funding base must also be involved in parliamentary cultural debates. Culture has a very important intrinsic value, a cultural value, a welfare value, but it also has an economic value. The creative and cultural sectors in particular are also a growing employer in Finland, i.e. this economic aspect too, and the economic value of the public euro invested in that culture must be remembered in the debate. It comes back to society and the economy many times over. Mr President! This year a lot of Finnish culture has been brought up for Finland 100 years, and I think it is a great thing that students have been able to come here from all over Finland. Visiting Helsinki in various cultural institutions, thank you for that. It is a very good idea for this month of free museums, and if it does not progress at national level, then hopefully at the level of as many municipalities as possible. I know that art museums in many municipalities, for example, are free of charge, either entirely or sometimes, in some days, but it would also be worth considering in municipalities such cultural notes as could be given to the unemployed or others, for example, because culture is truly significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u54	Mr President! On behalf of culture, I would like to emphasise this voluntary activity and how resources are allocated to it. Thousands of people are now making truly performing art and culture in different places. Many of them can take lessons from their own time to use and promote culture. I am a little concerned about the future funding of municipalities in the sense of how a small contribution can make a great deal of good work in different municipalities for summer events and others, but equally about the way in which we keep the foundations and the Finnish treasures maintained by their foundations involved in cultural provision. For example, from Mänttä-Vilppula, our Serlachius Foundation, and from there, this Gösta Pavilion: 100,000 visitors go there, and that gives us a strong kick in business. It has brought about other business activities, and that culture has already created its own strong business line for us. I'm sure many other keepers would be able to do this, when we bring up that old history, to keep all these elements with us. In other words, it requires the funding of municipalities as well as the funding of the state. A good example of this social impact is that it also works the other way around: when the Pirka Prize was awarded to the Serlachius Foundation, they used it to bring the young people from Pirkanmaa to visit the museum — a free museum visit. But are also important then those transportation subsidies or things like this that are done in a group or companies through support that we then get people to move and get to know the culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u58	Mr President! The Finland 100 year is indeed also a museum year. The Finnish museum is doing quite well in the sense that this The museum card has been a good innovation and the number of visitors is increasing. Not all museums as such are doing well financially. When Mr Gustafsson told me that he is the chairman of the museum foundation, I must also say that I am the chairman of the Finnish Agricultural Museum Sara Foundation. What is the history of Finland? That is, if we go back 100 to 150 years, especially in the history of rural areas, in the history of agriculture. Everyone had to deal with it. It is important that this history should also be brought in, and that is where Parliament's contribution is now moving on to a very valuable collection of the Viking Museum, which is a European collection. In fact, it was already nominated as a European museum, Mr Gustafsson, not quite yet elected, but perhaps after that it will.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u59	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u60	Mr President! This is a law dealing with a survivor's pension granted on the basis of an artist's pension. It is a great thing that this is now going to be regulated by law. This is a very big matter for people, even though there are only about 170 of them who are covered by this pension. Even in our budget, this is not a large sum if it is a little over EUR 1 million, but it is very important for the families who receive this pension. In this context, it is also worth recalling that artists are currently making very modest incomes. Grant recipients have a low pension intake and, for example, it is only possible for a few artists to take out private pension insurance. All artists today collect their own livelihood from very small streams. Grants are an important source of livelihood, but also, of course, their own artistic production. At least according to the studies, it seems that the coming income has fallen from previous years. A lot of artists live in poverty, which means that artists' livelihoods and pension security will continue to require close scrutiny here in Parliament and measures to improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u61	Mr President! This government's proposal for a survivor's pension on the basis of an additional artist's pension is very much to be welcomed. If you think of artists in Finland, most people live on very small incomes, it is now said, almost at the poverty line, so it is very important that the matter is now taken into account in this performance. Creative industries and what they mean to society and the country — that is the future. The creative industries will provide a great deal of jobs, new jobs, so the Finns have also noticed this and are in favour of good performances that will also guarantee these new jobs. Also an important issue at the moment here in our country. Also in connection with this and the artists, if you look at the music industry, we have very many very small players. More than 90% of the companies are mini-firms. They're being pulled by one person and a couple of people, and I saw them away. For example, if a person in the music industry, the author, receives copyright compensation, he cannot be treated by that small company, but is personally taxed for copyright, compensation. Thus, some of the operators have even transferred their companies to Sweden. Now such a bill is running in some committees, so hopefully it will receive good feedback and be understood. I understand that the government also wants these small entrepreneurs to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u62	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is indeed at our disposal. This law gives the surviving spouse or child who receives an additional artistic pension the right to a survivor’s pension when the conditions laid down in the Act are fulfilled. This presentation has no impact on the number of artist pensions granted annually. After all, they remain dependent on the size of the appropriations entered in the State budget for this purpose. We have a lot of professionals and actors who really have to think about how they can manage when they retire or how the widow may possibly manage there in the future. At the moment, these artist pensions are paid to just over a thousand artists, and the importance of discretionary pensions has been great, especially for the distinguished artists whose income has been low and randomly created, because the work has also been occasional. They therefore have very low statutory pension provision based on work or entrepreneurial income. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has already stated in the past that in future attention must continue to be paid to the development of the livelihoods of artists and other self-employed people and to the construction of a social security system, so that it is possible to build up security without traps. We are now on a very important issue, and this opinion on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was also unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u63	Mr President! In fact, this debate came to a good place, following that previous theme, where we said that culture and art are the most important thing. Of course, we must also remember the fact that art and culture need their authors, and these factors also need their livelihoods. This is a very long-term topic of discussion, the livelihood of Finnish artists in general, the livelihood of various fields of art. Here is a good example. It is a good thing that we go in this direction, but, in fact, it is this budget money, whether it is for the artist's pension or for the scholarships, of course, that will determine that. There are also many other things that, overall, can contribute to this livelihood. One is, in general, the whole social security system, the associated unemployment security arrangements and so on. Then, of course, there are these separate ones, from which we now have a good example of this quote payment, which went in the right direction and on the button, and that was very important. Last season, the first steps were taken in this exhibition compensation system for artists, who are often almost the poorest people and with very small incomes. It was pushed forward, and now it has made progress. There are many different ways of achieving comprehensively across different administrative boundaries in order to secure and improve the livelihoods of artists, culturalists as a whole. I know once upon a time that I have watched this history, that for many years there have been various studies, many different studies on the livelihoods of artists, but sometimes it feels like I have listened a lot to the field there, that quite slowly these measures have progressed in relation to what the need would be. Surely there is still a need for us to focus attention on improving the conditions for the livelihood of artists, particularly in a comprehensive way, beyond the activities of the various administrative sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u64	Mr President! According to Article 80(1) of the Constitution, the law must lay down the basis for individual rights and obligations. The right to a pension is such a right and it has been considered that the current legal basis based on Government decisions is not sufficient and has had to be supplemented by established practices, and it has also been necessary to provide for this family pension case for an artist pension by law. Today, this survivor's pension relating to the supplementary pension for artists is granted on the basis of a decision of the Government, and now the most fundamental change in this proposal is that the discretionary nature of the survivor's pension should be abolished, which means that this pension will be granted after the conditions laid down by law have been fulfilled once it has been applied for. A very welcome and clarifying decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u65	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u66	Mr President! That's from art to taxes. This is a proposal for an increase in the property tax and, unfortunately, the third in a row during this term of government. After all, the government is in the process of seeking an increase of 100 million in property tax. It has already been done in a few years, and this year, for example, an additional increase of 50 million was made in relation to what was planned, which means that the government itself has already achieved its own target of 100 million, but still, despite the fact that these tax increases will continue. These increases have not been supported by the SDP for many reasons, and I would like to continue to express my concern about this. This proposal also includes the fact that the government partly compensates for the decrease in early childhood education fees by means of real estate tax. I think that the fall in early childhood education fees is a very good thing. The SDP has also been there to support and pursue it. We also have our own model for that. But it is not good that one form of compensation is made once again by raising property taxes. It should be done that the entire compensation should come through this corporation tax, from which part is now coming, and through the state subsidies, from which part is now coming, and in this respect this increase in the property tax should definitely have been excluded altogether. This is not like a state compensation for municipalities to reduce day care fees, but it is a compensation for local residents, which is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u71	We will take the speeches from Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Ala-Nissilä, and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u72	Mr. Speaker! When the Real Estate Tax Act was enacted 25 years ago, it replaced the street fee, the income tax and the Manhattan tax and its level were set to approximately compensate for those losses, i.e. the lower limit for the permanent dwelling was 0.10. Now, with this government proposal, the threshold is already rising by more than 0.40 next year, which means that it has quadrupled, and the ceiling has, of course, risen in the same way, from 0.40 to 1 here. So you can say that this property tax has become a new property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u83	Mr President! If we go back to the old ones, we have to say from the last parliamentary term that taxation went up, I think every year it went up. Now the overall tax rate is clearly turning down, and that is important for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u86	Now is the opportunity to ask for one minute's reply, press the V button, and they will start with Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u87	Mr President! Mr Viitanen said that this does not compensate municipal residents for the reduction in daily care fees, as this is being collected. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u88	Mr President! I think we can put an end to the fact that no one's taxation is being tightened, as is often said here in the Chamber, because it is in Helsinki, in the capital region, that this is actually increasing the tax burden on self-residents. In this government proposal, it is calculated that if you have a 35-year-old detached house on a plot of 1000 square metres, its property tax will increase — for the third time in a row — by EUR 100 next year, i.e. by more than 10%. It is quite a great blackmail, and help me if there is a family of schoolchildren living in a detached house, because their taxes are being tightened even further by the abolition of the tax deduction for children, and it is not compensated for by any way for the families of schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u89	Mr President! Tax increases have never been pleasant, and there are probably opinions about them in one direction or another. On the whole, property tax is not a problem-free issue; there is certainly agreement on this. Overall, the property tax needs to be reformed and it is very good that it will also be implemented in the coming years. That is a good thing, and I personally hope so. This bill, which has now been brought to our attention by the government, raises the thresholds in practice and does not apply to all municipalities. What has already been in the media and many have pointed out that this is raising the cost of all single-family residents is not true. This applies to those municipalities that have property taxes on these matters at the lower limit, and it is precisely the lower thresholds that are being raised. That's remarkable. All in all, I'm worried.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u90	Mr President! From the point of view of municipalities, real estate tax is a good tax in the sense of knowing quite precisely how much tax revenue it will generate and, on the other hand, the tax base will also be extended to non-residents, including those who own real estate in the municipality. But even from the point of view of the municipality, the problem with property tax is that this tax value, which is determined on real estate and plots, is far from always proportional to the reality of the property itself. This would require a change so that the property tax would better reflect the real value, because now, especially in large municipalities, where there are different types of housing, rural and urban, the tax may be similar to the one on real estate, which is actually worth a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u91	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Kankaanniemi pointed out very well that this objective of the Government Programme to increase the return on real estate tax by EUR 100 million has already been achieved and, in the interests of fairness, it must be said that this new proposal would further increase the cost of living and would indeed affect the most low-income citizens. At least the real estate tax rates for these permanent dwellings will not rise next year, but they will be raised in 2019 too. With this proposal, this lower limit of the general property tax rate would rise to 1.03% and is higher than the upper limit of this general property tax rate until ten years ago, i.e. very high. The return on real estate tax has doubled over the decade, which means that its share of the tax burden is quite high, and this increase in the general property tax threshold would mean that as many as 170 municipalities, i.e. more than half of Finnish municipalities, would have to raise
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u92	Mr President! Real estate taxation has features that are good for the tax system: returns are secure and it is difficult to evade taxes when the tax base is immobile. In addition, real estate tax can make land use more efficient, especially in urban areas. The problem, however, is the effect of increasing the price of housing, although the property tax itself is not the main reason for the increase in housing costs, but one element in it. The problem is, in particular, the tax burden on low-income people living in a detached house in relation to income. The real estate tax system as a whole needs reform, and now we need to consider whether it is worth raising before the overall reform of the real estate tax system. The reform should examine how real estate taxation is actually targeted at different income groups and groups of people, how it affects income distribution and how it accumulates in housing costs, and consider how property taxation could be more effectively targeted at large real estate assets rather than granny cottages.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u93	Mr President! I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that money does not come from space, but sometimes it seems that these decisions may arise in space. As a general rule, expert opinions were critical of increases in real estate tax rates and pointed out the impact of increases on housing costs, which have increased on average faster than disposable income in recent years. The objective of the increase in the property tax therefore appears to be to fill the financing gap created by the reduction in early childhood education fees. In this light, it is justified to ask what is the point of this when the increase in the property tax is paid by families with children and also by elderly people living alone. So first, we give families with children a 100-euro discount on early childhood education fees as if it were coming from space, and immediately a 100-euro extra bill is added to their hands as an increase in real estate tax. I wonder if that came from space.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u94	Mr President! At least, in my opinion, taxation should be fair and equal, and when we discuss the lower and the upper limits, this means that in some municipalities the property tax will rise and in some municipalities there will be nothing and in some cases the property tax will fall if the municipality exercises its own discretion. But the biggest problem is not, in my opinion, a lower or upper limit, and it is good that Mr Mikkonen has raised the same issue that I have often mentioned, as I am talking about now: the biggest problem is the tax value. The value of taxation takes into account the site in which it is located, but the value of taxation on the building is based on building costs. Does a Member of Parliament here think, Harakka or Viitanen, that it is fair that the purchase price of a property may be lower than the annual property tax? This has happened, and this reflects the major problem that the tax value of real estate tax should broadly reflect the real value of real estate, and this is the most important factor that must be taken into account in the reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u95	Mr President! The property tax certainly has advantages in that it taxes property, but on the other hand it must also be noted that the government intends to tax property, especially for those on low incomes who may be living in an old detached house, in relation to the fact that the government could have genuinely taxed the property of large heirs, rather than tax relief. In that respect, it can be said that this line chosen is not very consistent. On the other hand, it has also been a long way to go that there is a desire to take care of more reasonable housing costs, and now this government line has been making money available for important projects, precisely by raising the lower limit of the property tax. I do not think that the fact that money is constantly being collected by raising the threshold for real estate tax is a sustainable line. That should be changed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u96	Mr President! The increase in the property tax itself is, of course, like any increase in the tax: it involves very negative value charges. But the representative In my opinion, Mr Eestilä's speech was at the heart of this issue. We have a huge number of properties in the country that in practice no longer have any value.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u103	Mr President! Many speakers have already described these problems, which are linked to the property tax. I myself point out the view that it is acting as both a producer of regional inequality and as an indicator of its existing inequality. Outside of Congestion Finland, where I come from, we do not always have a situation where we could be at the lower tax limit and raise it under duress when the lower limit is raised. Yes, there are much higher property taxes in many municipalities, because municipalities need tax revenue. There is also the factor that has often been mentioned that the value of their properties is lower than here in the capital region and yet they are subject to a high tax. What, then, is the answer? It is not such an easy question in its entirety. There are other costs in housing, such as a tax on transfers of funds, which is a very difficult and unfair tax, but the reverse is that the state needs tax revenue. Perhaps this would be a place for some sort of cross-party parliamentary reflection on what can be done about this, because these will not be resolved in a single term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u104	Mr President! There are actually two debates that need to be separated. I listened to the debate between Mr Haraka and Mr Zyskowicz. Firstly, the property tax is, in many respects, a well-founded and sensible tax for the reasons already mentioned by Mr Sarkkinen. But then, on the question of whether anyone's taxation will rise, Mrs Harakka is absolutely right. It is precisely through this increase in property tax that people's taxation will increase, and Mrs Zyskowicz would also be able to admit it. The biggest problem was, in fact, brought up by Mr Eestilä here, quite rightly, the steak. It could be summed up in that situation, in its problematicity here, by raising taxes on properties with a collapsed value, as Mr Hoskonen pointed out. It should therefore be expected that we will carry out this process of valuation, and then the value of taxation would correspond to the real value of the property. That would make sense in terms of the stage we move forward so as not to go with that famous butt ahead of the tree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u105	Mr President! I agree with the ideas of the representatives who have pointed out here that the price and value of buildings are very often below the cost of construction. I recently heard about the incident in South Karelia, on the eastern border, where the package of prefabricated buildings had recently cost EUR 300000 and the purchase price that was then obtained was EUR 50000, i.e. the difference in prices may be in this category. After all, we are now reforming this valuation of real estate, and it requires a lot of supervision that this is the kind of thing that will be taken into account in the preparation. It's not that easy. Frankly, at the moment it is not being taken into account at all in the preparation of the Tax Administration. This was evident today in the hearing of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u106	Mr President! Indeed, a new land-based valuation method is being developed for real estate taxation, which is to be introduced in 2020. This is then intended to improve the fairness and transparency of taxation, which will indeed be necessary. Many have pointed out that these increases in real estate tax have occurred several times in a row, but it can be read from this very proposal that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the increase in real estate tax — this 100 million in total — is intended to be implemented step by step during the Government term. That is what this is all about, and that is why there are many of these increases. I would also like to comment on the fact that in many municipalities the inventory of the real estate stock is incomplete, and I would like to make a few corrections to this. We do not have sufficient dialogue between these registers, which register the property stock, and for this the municipalities would need help and support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u107	Mr President! Real estate tax increases and housing prices increase. As Mr Kankaanniemi said, this increase is raw for a very low income, in other words for many families with children and older people. Since living and roofing on the head are not luxury but a basic need, it is a disaster for many. I wonder what will happen to people who are already living on the poverty line? However, of course, the property tax is uniform and in a way fair, but the representative Eestilä was the first to raise a real problem here: the problem of the tax value of this property tax. You have to take it somehow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u108	Mr President! The fundamental question is that, in any case, when reforms are being carried out, why is such a forced increase automatically being made, for three years in a row, and also from then on, the government wants to do so. Apart from these issues of appreciation, I believe that we must also look at the overall structure of how it could better take account of the development of housing costs for people at different income levels. All of this would require a whole new kind of thinking. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I think it is quite symbolic that the government parties here almost alternately say that the increase in the property tax is not a problem. So the question is, why do we have to do it right now? All in all, I also think that another very important issue is that, when it is said that no one is being taxed more heavily, it is the taxation of the resident, especially of a resident who may have children of school age.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u109	Mr President! The income from early childhood education payments will be reduced from all municipalities where such income has now existed in this respect and will have to be fixed. Yes, this message from the government is that you take it through real estate tax. In this way, this property tax has been used in the past as a basis for almost anything, i.e. to replace anything, in other words, in this way it applies to others other than those at the lower limit. The value of the property is a serious question. For example, in this economic situation it may be that the job is in New Town and lives in Hyrynsalmella, Hyrynsalmella has built a house and has taken up 200,000 debts and then tries to sell it. It's worth maybe $20,000, owes me 180,000. Then move on and get a place in New Town. This is something that the government must focus on how to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u110	Mr President! It is now good that during this parliamentary term this whole public finances will be dealt with as a whole. But when you listen to the Greens and you know the rest of the opposition, which often opposes the balancing of state finances on the grounds of children, I find it repugnant. Then what's the debt? That is precisely the tax of the future. Last year we took EUR 100,000 for each child to be born, perhaps more than EUR 600,000 for each child to be born this year. It's on their necks. Yes, in the future, if we think about families with children, we also need to take care to balance the state finances and not to accumulate more debt on the children who are born. I'm wondering about the Greens. Unfortunately, they have forgotten about this sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u111	Mr President! Congressman Ala-Nissila speaks against his better knowledge. Even now, when an alternative budget debate starts, it is precisely in budgetary policy that we are trying to build a proposal that is consistent with the government's stance. But the essential point is that within the budget, every euro is a value choice. Within the framework, every euro is a value choice. We want to make a fair future policy. That is why it is precisely there that we invest in day care, education, the well-being of children and young people, and it is not improved by the fact that, in the name of alternativeity, we are going to make major cuts — it is said that there is no other option — because with the same amount of euro, the budget allocation can make value choices as to whether they are put to point A or point B. This is not difficult mathematics so that I can believe that Mr Ala-Nissilä, who has experienced a person in these matters, understands this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u112	Mr President! Representatives Harakka, Aalto and partners asked the government parties to recognise that the slogan that no one's taxation is tightening is not true. Well, that is not true, nor should it be claimed or claimed. The Government Programme has been based on the assumption that the taxation of anyone's work will not increase. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u113	Mr President! I wonder what the logic of government parties is now. However, since you have been very nicely concerned here about housing that loses the value of remote areas, you thank these lowly ones by raising the property tax. After all, it would be logical to reduce or at least maintain the property tax while waiting for the future property tax to function fairly also for homes that have lost value. In addition, however, the main concern relates to the capital region, the metropolitan area, where the bottleneck of growth and the bottleneck of employment are these growing housing costs, and you are making this worse and making the government's own employment objective even more difficult. I would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz and Mr Outi Mäkelä, because the last time we had the previous increase, there were no representatives of the government parties in the capital region. You can now justify, Mr Zyskowicz, to retired people in Sanomalainen why their house's property tax is rising, and you can, Mr Outi Mäkelä,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u114	Mr President! I followed this discussion from the study, and when it became so interesting, I wanted to come here and say a few words. Taxation is a whole thing. Taxation has a wide range of effects, including guiding effects, and significant employment effects are also mentioned here. The property tax will be increased, and when it has been pointed out in the debate that it will only compensate for the reduction in early childhood education fees and even the total abolition of them, that is true. However, in municipalities such as my home town, Savonlinna — where there is the highest tax base in the country, and now Savonlinna has been marked in the strategy that efforts are being made to calculate tax revenues — this is a comprehensive management of the finances of municipalities, including that this increase in property tax will ensure that the municipality’s finances are maintained in good condition when tax credits are calculated. And the tax company, the tax bill on labour, it's direct.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u115	Mr President! Yes, it is a place to stop in that in a very short time, in a few years, real estate taxation has become this kind of continuous raise machine, where always good government needs seem to find more money. We are in a situation where we should actually stop at whether this increase in the lower limit is the only medicine or whether, in fact, as has already been discussed in this debate, we should find out how the difference in tax values in real estate could be better taken into account. After all, this existing difference in tax values is widening by increasing the threshold for real estate tax. Regional disparities are not taken into account in this respect. It would also be important to consider how to tax the different properties in relation to each other. In this respect, I regret that early childhood education fees are being paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u116	Mr President! It is nice to hear, for example, from Mr Viitanen's mouth that property tax is, overall, a very problematic tax when it does not take into account the ability to pay. After all, you consider a real estate tax increase such that it is not a problem-free one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u119	Mr President! Mr Turunen has just said that taxation is a whole, and of course it is, it is true. But he also claimed that the reduction in early childhood education fees and the increase in the lower limit of real estate taxes are not directly related. Well, however, in this Government proposal 115 on reducing early childhood education fees, it says that the government has decided to compensate for these losses of income by raising the threshold for property taxation by 20, with a yield of approximately EUR 25 million. In addition, the aim here is to allocate a greater share of the corporate tax revenue to municipalities — which we will discuss later today in the session — and also to slightly increase the central government share of basic municipal services. Well, Mr Turunen here showed that if municipalities calculate their income tax companies, which in many cases is very much to be welcomed, they can compensate for it by raising the property tax. But I ask: how does this increase in property taxes now correspond?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u120	Mr President! Indeed, taxation is a whole, and in this as a whole it is extremely important that work is profitable and that labour taxation can be reduced. In this respect, it is important to remember from the point of view of the municipalities what Mr Savio listed above, i.e. now compensation is being paid to the municipalities for this loss and, among other things, to increase the State's share of corporate tax and to increase the yield of corporation tax by EUR 60 million for municipalities, and then this share of the increase in real estate tax. There have been times when property tax was raised and then a slice of it snapped back at the state and the municipalities did not benefit from it. However, this is fair and fair for the municipalities
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u121	Mr President! This is kind of interesting right now. When it is said that the taxation of any work is not being tightened, the taxation of families with children with low and middle income is being tightened. It's a fact. This is what happens. As far as debt is concerned, the SDP's alternative budget takes less debt than the government does. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u122	Mr President! Unlike Mr Savio here, I certainly did not say that these have nothing to do with each other, but that it is not just that. This increase in property tax will, of course, compensate for the reduction in early childhood education fees. But I also said that taxation is a whole and that the level of property tax is decided on by the municipalities, and in those municipalities with high taxes on labour income and a desire to reduce it and where there is a reserve, given these reductions in early childhood education fees, this is supported precisely by this increase in property tax, and hence less tax on labour income. Then I say to Mr Viitane that the tax on labour has been reduced by EUR 1.2 billion during this term of government. However, 450 million of this is a reduction in earnings,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u123	Mr President! Yes, these housing costs are a problem in a certain way, and they have always been raised by each party in turn, when they have been made through energy taxes and when they have been made through increases in the lower and upper limits of the property tax,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u126	Now to this debate, I would like to add the following contributions: Aalto, Krista Kiuru and Hoskonen. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u127	Mr President! The representatives of Turunen and also of Savio have pointed out what I agree with, of course, that taxation must always be considered as a whole. In addition to taxation, we should also look at current transfers: if the proportion of harmful taxes increases and consequently people's disposable income decreases, account should be taken of the difference through current transfers. As far as property tax is concerned, property tax is, contrary to what some representatives in the city centre have pointed out, mainly a good tax. The problem is precisely that the value of the property does not correspond to the real value of the property, and the problem is that it is now increasing the taxation of properties whose value has collapsed. The alternative here would be to consider the reform of the tax value procedure, first or alternatively, to consider tax and company subsidies instead of raising the cost of living for people on low incomes, which would provide a very large fiscal sum which can be re-allocated as income transfers to people on low and medium incomes. There are very many options, and taxation guarantees a very large number of alternatives. Once again, it is a question of value choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u128	Mr President! We have had some important messages to the government in this debate, and the first is that income and wealth disparities seem to continue to increase as a result of this government's policy, and here is a good example of how discipline is more distributed to certain populations. We argued in the debate that instead of constantly using this lifting machine, we would genuinely do something about these outdated tax values. And I can tell you that in the latter part of the last term of government this was already decided so as not to be in such a situation. Finally, I would like to say that this is a question of ensuring that the reform of early childhood education fees should be covered, and with this logic 25 million will be taken from here in order to compensate the municipalities. It would have made much more sense to take this money in, for example, through a clear tightening of inheritance taxation, not by loosening up, as the government does, and by giving back the money in the form of state transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u129	Mr President! Indeed, taxation is an entity that must be viewed as a whole and not just one small part of it and then blame others for what they have done wrong in the past. However, the overall picture is crucial: whether it encourages people to work and whether the tax balance is right in terms of incentives. It's a big deal. But one wrong here is happening all the time in Finland, and that is the taxation of agricultural properties and their value. It is the case that today, when we all know what the situation in Finnish agriculture is, and especially when this kind of roofing year seems to be coming, farmers are in an absolutely pathetic situation. The economy is really tight. In my opinion, this is something that the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, too, has come to each other with regard to property tax, and I believe that the situation in agriculture is not going to be intolerable. For it will lead to situations where soon we will have no time for domestic bread or the work that will be done in agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u130	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u131	Mr President! Let us imagine that there is a razor tax in the kingdom. The injustice of this tax would probably have been more than just for Mrs. Aalto and myself, so it would be leaving in a few years' time. Would it be wise, then, to increase this shaving tax in this situation when that would only make the situation worse? This is exactly what we are doing once again for the third time with regard to real estate tax, just before this very problematic system is finally being put in place, a tax which, as has been demonstrated in this previous debate, has been deeply unfair in terms of its tax base and its tax base. He wants to go nuts on the bills, but I think this is the third time we've been discussing an increase in real estate tax under the current government. After all, the EUR 100 million announced in the Government Programme have already been brought together, Mr Outi Mäkelä, which is simply an additional increase in the increase. So now we're going beyond the original plan. So, as I have said many times here, property tax should be used wisely. It is very ill-suited to replace the finances of municipalities, while correspondingly the income of municipalities has now been reduced, as is the case this time in reducing early childhood education fees. Thus, the taxation of low-paid schoolchildren is being tightened twice, both because of the removal of the child allowance and possibly because of housing in their own homes. Real estate tax is poorly suited to fiscal objectives because it has a wide social impact. It affects housing prices, housing construction, regional development, job placement, labour mobility, employment throughout the economy. It has considerable income-sharing effects. The increase in the property tax requires further and possibly negative measures to remedy externalities. This unreasonable increase forces 170 municipalities to increase property tax. Why, then, has it been so low in southern municipalities? There are two reasons for this: the big cities in the metropolitan area have not needed the money because they have grown up, they are self-sufficient in the workplace. Secondly, they already have high housing costs. Especially in Uusimaa, which already collects more than one third of real estate taxes, ever-increasing housing destroys the government’s dreams of rising employment rates and slows down economic growth just when it has started. As housing expenditure in the whole country has grown four times as fast as employees’ handheld income annually, the difference is even more pronounced in growth centres. It weakens entrepreneurship and the availability of labour, especially in the capital region. The size and timing of the increase in the property tax are therefore extremely important. According to Pellervo’s financial research institute, the property tax is transferred to rents. This increases the regressiveness of the tax. Under the current system, the value of property tax is relatively more severe for low incomes than for high incomes. The increase is transferred to rents, which means that the tenants are hired to pay, whose housing costs already account for a large part of the disposable income. Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz is perhaps the most prominent speaker in the House and very often uses this skill. But to this direct question, he did not answer: How does he justify raising the property tax to a retired couple in Tapanila, whose payment may rise by EUR 100 a year once again? What does he say to them? Mr Outi Mäkelä defended himself here by not being a representative of Espoo, and that was unfortunately noticed in his speech. So the current property tax is distorted in many ways. Valued dwellings are undertaxed and granary cottages that lose value are overtaxed. Everyone knows how unfair the current model is and how rotten its implementation is. Therefore, we look forward to the overall reform of real estate taxation to be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Land Survey Board and Statistics Finland, which is expected in 2020. The additional increase in the property tax further highlights the shortcomings of the current tax base and valuation levels and distorts taxation. When the next good government gets the right knowledge base, the right methods and makes the right decisions on the basis of them, we finally get a fair property tax. So property tax is basically a good tax, but in practice it is problematic. It will also become a good tax in practice. In the meantime, we should not make the situation worse, we should not increase the shaving tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u132	Mr President! The tax issue before us has raised a very interesting debate and highlights the eternal problem that is the right amount of taxation and whether it is done correctly. However, the most important thing to remember now is that real estate tax is one way of obtaining tax revenue for the public sector. Municipalities need the taxes with which they pay early childhood education and so on, many things. As Mr Kokananiemi mentioned in his own speech, at the time the Manhattan fee and street fee were abolished and property tax was replaced, and when you understand and remember when you start speaking, you are on slightly stronger ice at that moment. However, it is important to ensure that the overall level of taxation does not increase and that taxation encourages people to take up jobs. It's the biggest line we have to hold on to. There must always be encouragement for people to go to work, find work and earn a living and, at the same time, their own pension cover, because that is a hugely important issue in the long run. The problem with property tax is, of course, that it strikes like lightning in rural municipalities. Real estate values have collapsed there, we know that, and especially when it comes to farmers' lives, it is a terrible thing. So let us take the example of a big robot pole with an investment value of more than EUR 1 million: when we start to lower the property tax, then there is the net return of a small space, what is left of that hard work under the line is virtually one sweep away. In other words, we must definitely have a solution in this Parliament, because the poor situation in agriculture, which is currently, for example, exacerbated by natural conditions, is very serious. Revenues have been falling all along, costs have risen, and now there will be a year of apocalyptic activity. This is a very serious situation, and I believe that in this Finnish Parliament there is an understanding of this serious issue. The nation itself that cannot produce its own food does not stand on a solid foundation. I hope that both Mr Orpo, Minister of Finance, and Mr Jari, Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, will be able to do so. The leppä will find each other and there will be some sensible proposal, because it is important that domestic food production remains at a strong level and that taxation — in this case property taxation — does not carry more stones into the sledge that is already full enough at the moment. When different opinions have been raised in this debate as to whether a government is doing the right thing or a government is doing the wrong thing: that debate will never end. What is important is simply to make work in this country happen, that the incentive to work is to do work and that supporting it is the most important thing and always the number one thing. On the property tax side, we are looking forward to the building tax reform that is currently being prepared. You really need to bring up real estate values there. At present, in Finland, this enormous concentration — when people make every effort to get them to live here in the south — clearly poses the problem of real estate values rising to levels which, as estimated during such a booming period, are absurdly high. When the next recession strikes, maybe there'll be a little more real value. In any case, this current situation in real estate is absolutely absurd here in southern Finland. Prices are rising, and it leads to the situation that when real estate values rise, then, of course, it will lead to difficulties when housing costs rise. A reasonable consensus between the political parties must be found in the midst of these difficult issues. It is not enough for us to agree on this this year. I would like to see a compromise that has parliamentary coverage and profitability over the parliamentary term, because taxation, especially property taxation, would seem stable and balanced. Then we will be able to cope with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u133	Mr President! As Mr Östman has already pointed out and stressed in this debate, many commentators have indeed strongly criticised the government's intention to raise the lower and upper limits of property tax rates. In particular, this raising of the lower limits would lead to a situation where, regardless of the will of the decision-makers, the property tax on a low-income pensioner living in an oil-heated detached house will rise and increase his housing costs and contribute to his or her survival in everyday life. In many, many municipalities, this would happen, and the increases would not fall short of rents, but would also increase them. The share of real estate tax in the total tax burden of citizens has already increased very significantly and, as I have already said, the Government Programme's objectives to increase property tax revenue have already been achieved. In particular, the fact that, with this government proposal, up to 170 municipalities will have to raise the general property tax rate shows that these increases are quite excessive. Thus, the tax ceiling was still less than 1% less than ten years ago. Now the lower limit will rise to 1.03%. In particular, this increase in the threshold is extremely problematic in terms of the autonomy of municipalities and the realisation of local democracy. The increase in the upper limit leaves municipalities more room for manoeuvre and is therefore more acceptable. Of course, this must also be maintained in this respect, but it is still in the hands of the municipal decision-makers. I wonder a little whether this raising of the thresholds is not considered problematic by the coalition as an economic liberal party, especially in those municipalities whose economies are already in good shape. These are also municipalities in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u134	Mr President! There were a few things left unsaid in that debate, and I shall return to them now. When it was suggested that the high level of the income tax percentage of municipalities would be adjusted by increasing property taxes and then reducing the general tax rate, I would not go on that line. This view is based on the fact that, when this matter was examined in my own municipality, even the high increases in real estate tax are of such magnitude that the corresponding increases in the standard tax rate are really small. In other words, there would be small reductions in the general tax rate by raising the real estate tax rate very much, and I do not think it is worth the effort. However, the question here is more about the critical examination of municipal obligations and the dismantling of standards. There are the structures that can actually reduce the costs, and no increases in the property tax will make up for such items of expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u135	Mr President! Representative Harakka here used to make rather advanced interpretations and used colored talk about how this tax development affects urban areas, among other things. At the same time, he forgot that, for example, this type of property tax has been allocated to the capital region in the past, for example, to unconstructed plots, which has also been very useful for the movement of this land reserve and which has improved the housing situation and significantly increased the construction and has been a fully justified measure. Taxation is therefore a whole and has a wide range of impact objectives. This increase in real estate tax is also intended to curb the need for municipalities to increase municipal tax, which will then be a significant tax on labour taxation. Good points have been made in this debate, among other things, in order to reform this process of appreciation. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance has commissioned a study on the need to reform the system of valuation of land-based property taxation. There are many problems and tax values are generally lagging behind. Another issue I would like to raise here is the inventory side of the property tax rate, which is in poor condition in municipalities: according to the municipal association's estimates, property taxes are not collected as much as EUR 300 million in the whole country due to the lack of these registers. These shortcomings are therefore due to the lack of discussion and lack of databases between the Tax Administration and municipalities and the Population Register Centre’s registers. This is something we should get right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u136	Mr President! Even in a few speeches, the abolition of the property tax on agricultural production buildings came up. It was also referred to the Ministry of Finance that something should be done in this direction. If my memory is correct, last autumn the government approved a EUR 50 million aid package for agriculture, which in itself was a very good thing, and then there were 10 million reserved to help newly-invested farms. When one of the issues was that the property tax would be abolished or significantly reduced on farm production buildings, it was not a matter of Finnish will that this did not happen, because the assembly also supported the study, but the wall met with the Commission. Mr Tiilikainen said that there was nothing he could do, that the Commission was facing a wall. In my view, we must also state in this Chamber the correct order of things that, if there is a way to do so, the majority will be in favour of it, because agriculture today is actually in difficulty and the structure of income and expenditure is not balanced. We have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u137	Mr President! Mr Eestilä is right that the real estate tax can now be an obstacle to investment in agriculture. In this way, this will have to do with these effects, which must also be taken into account for the low-income. What Mr Mäkelä said was that property tax could be used, that unbuilt land in the capital region has been mobilised, is very important. But, Mr President, what is the big picture? The big picture is that the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut during this parliamentary term, as was done during the last parliamentary term. As a result, the pressure on municipalities to raise taxes is much lower because the state has crashed its share of this total public finances. And when this property tax is decided by the municipalities as a general rule, then this line that the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut has been a good thing for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u138	Madam President! About the tax authority: I understand taxation and its wholeness in it, but how is this addressed? Take, for example, this online store. Now that you can order anything from abroad and here the stone-foot companies that are their competitors are subject to this kind of taxation, it is unfair. And another thing: Farms, businesses have real estate that really have no value. So if a banker gives a certain guarantee about it, then according to its guarantee it should also have its tax value, and should not be viewed here from the taxpayer's point of view so that it just sorts out that such a price is placed on that property and paid it tax on it, even though it has no value. Mr Eestilä has probably already mentioned this. This is such a mishap that the rural areas and their businesses will come out of there at this rate. It's a simple truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u139	Madam President! Indeed, the situation of businesses operating under rural conditions, and in particular of farms, is really bad. As we all know, during this parliamentary term, the financial position of municipalities has improved substantially when there have been no cuts to local government finances so much, and the finances of municipalities have recovered even in such a way that last year, if I remember correctly, EUR 400 million were in favour of local government finances. So suddenly I can't remember whether there are any such crisis municipalities and municipalities in serious difficulties at the moment. Indeed, the situation has improved substantially. Against this background, the change in the boundaries of real estate tax certainly gives the municipalities instruments to increase taxation, but of course every responsible municipal decision-maker knows that it is not possible to assume that taxes are rising sharply, because it is important to keep the residents happy in the municipality and to live in a decently cheap environment and to keep their jobs. As far as agriculture is concerned, Madam President, the unfairness of property taxation on the basis of the value of agricultural property is currently crying outlyingly wrong. I don't know where to find that political consensus. I understand that is already the case in this house, but now there should be the heart and the diameter of the wind, the person, the minister who spouted to say to the public that this matter needs to be put in order, because it is precisely the agricultural situation at the moment that is quite... I wouldn't say it's catastrophic yet, but we're pretty close. Mr President, I would like Parliament to take this issue seriously. Now we are living in times where, if we do not get an improvement, we will have farms going bankrupt at an accelerated pace. It is out of Finnish work, because at the same time we lose the value of the whole processing chain, and at the same time it causes it to be extremely difficult to take back when food comes from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u140	Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say very briefly that Mr Mäkelä has just raised the point that it is very difficult to think in such a way as to compensate municipalities for any income tax reductions they may incur, and I fully share Mr Mäkelä's view that the municipalities must compensate for the reduction in their municipal tax which they have made — and rightly, in certain cases, quite rightly — by making their activities more efficient and otherwise by reducing their costs, and that is what many municipalities have done. In my municipality of residence, Ylöjärvi, among others, has tried to improve the efficiency of operations, and it has been quite successful. On the other hand, when it has been suggested here that an increase in the property tax could then compensate for this decrease in the municipal tax rate, I do not think it can be an automatic one, because it is already against the fact that the municipal tax rate is set at 0.25 percentage points. If the entire amount were compensated by real estate tax, then the real estate tax rates would have to be raised to the clouds.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u141	Mr President! In many speeches, attention has been paid to the fact that realised trade prices are lower than building costs and also very often lower than property tax values, and this problem does not only apply to the peripheral regions of Finland, but is actually present in the whole country, including in dreary urban areas in southern Finland. This is something that the Tax Administration should recognize when it prepares its new building valuation guidelines. This applies both to dwellings, leisure homes and also to productive buildings. As far as agriculture is concerned, I would say that Mr Eestilä had a good speech when he, as it were, handed out a helping hand in this abolition of the property tax on agricultural production buildings. My own view is that Brussels will not stand in the way of this if it is addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u142	Mr President! These increases in tax rates and reflect the need to curb increases in municipal taxes: However, the Government's explanatory statement makes this point quite clear here too. I agree that it is absolutely more important and important to reform the cost structure in municipalities and to reduce costs in a healthy way, so that the municipality's finances are on a balanced footing, but it is also a fact that the return on real estate tax is significant in many municipalities, especially here in the growth regions, and indeed the return it makes, now that it comes directly to the municipalities, is a significant source of income for the municipalities and that raising the municipal tax would be a direct tightening on labour taxation and, in that respect, would undermine the acceptance of work and incentives to do work and would be contrary to the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u143	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Economic Affairs must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u144	Madam President! Overall, the government's proposal is very good and worthy of support. The Incomes Register is probably one of the most extensive innovations in the digitalisation of public services with the key project money, and that is a very good thing. The aim of its reform is to reduce the administrative burden on employers, in particular by simplifying the notification of pay information to public authorities and other bodies in need of information. It also benefits employees. This Incomes Register is a welcome reform that will make it easier for ordinary Finns to contact the authorities, and the employee will probably be able to follow his own income data very up-to-date in the future. All in all, this is also a smoothing-up, de-bureaucratic and standard-setting exercise and receives a great deal of information from the same database. Employers will be able to report employee wages at one time to all authorities and other bodies. At the moment, we need to search several different sites for that information. All in all, the government's proposal is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u145	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u146	Mr President! This is one of the numerous proposals relating to this Competitiveness Pact and the changes to social security contributions for employees and employers resulting from the Competitiveness Pact. It has been interesting to note that since this summer this critical attitude towards decisions relating to the Competitiveness Pact has also occurred in other opposition parties, but until now, when these changes relating to social security contributions have been discussed in Parliament, the left-wing parliamentary group has been the only group against them. This proposal, which is now under discussion, therefore means that an annual transfer of EUR 620 million from employees to employers, that is to say to the Finnish business community, will be made in a way which at the same time reduces both: Income from the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the tax revenues of the state and municipalities combined for approximately EUR 100 million. When I myself have said that this competitiveness pact is the fulfillment of the dream of the coalition, it is precisely this transfer of income. At the same time, there is a significant transfer of income to Finnish business at the expense of Finnish employees, and this also means that when tax revenues decrease, the pressure to cut back on public services will increase. As has now been highlighted in many evaluations, this competitiveness pact solution is negative for public finances. With interest I will now be watching this parliamentary debate whether, for example, the recent criticism of the competitiveness pact by the demars and the Greens will also appear now when it comes to the legislative proposals for these major transfers of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u147	Madam President! Let us remember the situation which led to the creation of a competitiveness pact in this country. It was the situation in which Finland was about to go to the attention of the International Monetary Fund as the debt-taking grew, the unemployment rate was huge and the government debt was getting out of hand. This situation was the starting point, and now that the state finances have been corrected, we remember that when this Juha Sipilä government began its term of office, we were 15 per cent behind the worst competitor countries in terms of competitiveness, according to official and correct calculations. When you look at the Finnish product palette that we sell abroad, Sweden, for example, is our biggest competitor in the forest industry and also in the metal industry and many others, but it has now been caught so that we have almost reached Sweden at the moment. If we continue with this process and are able to make sensible decisions both on the labour market tables and here in Parliament, then around 2019 we will achieve the competitiveness of Germany, and then we will have done what we are trying to do. Mr Andersson gave quite good figures, but it is worth remembering the real figure behind it all, and it is the cost of unemployment. At its worst, Finland paid around EUR 7 billion in unemployment costs in this country. Every person who gets a job reduces this figure, and that is where the real foundation for sustainable development is. If anyone imagines that by tightening taxes, increases in payments to the state and municipalities will create the sustainable basis on which living standards are built in this country, I hope that those who make such a claim will become a little better acquainted with background information and economic lending, because in the long run, Finland's competitiveness is the most important thing for all. Finland is an export dependent country. That real standard of living for us comes from foreign trade. Of course, the internal market is also important, but if foreign trade pokes, it also means difficulties in the internal market.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u148	Mr President! This debate has taken place on what is meant by competitiveness for Finland. This overall competitiveness agreement is based on an incorrect analysis of the fact that Finland’s unit labour costs — i.e. the price of an hour worked — would have been significantly higher in the export sectors than in Germany or Sweden, for example. No economist has been able to present figures to prove this. Instead, the main change that had taken place in Finland was related to the productivity and productivity of work, especially in export sectors and our export sector, where the most important change is the decline in Nokia and what happened in the electronics industry. That is the most important change that has taken place, and we do not agree strongly with those who believe that Finland is able to cope with international competition, for example, with a policy based on purely wage reductions, which has now been a policy of competitiveness for Sipilä so far. Instead, we have repeatedly called for additional efforts to improve labour productivity and reform our industrial structure, product development, innovation and research. That's where this government has cut. Now, as a result of this competitiveness pact, when the imbalances in central government finances are still increasing, I fear that this will be reflected either in the fact that the necessary additional resources are still not being allocated to measures that genuinely improve our competitiveness, or in the fact that the livelihood of the currently unemployed low-income Finns is being weakened, which has been the case. The other side of the Sipilä competitiveness policy coin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u149	Mr President! I was excited to respond to Mr Andersson's speech when there were some rather confusing points. So the Left Alliance now feels that it is a bad thing that a competitiveness pact was concluded in Finland, it has become clear, but what should have been done?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u152	Madam President! I do have a slightly different view of the balance of state finances at the moment than was the balance during the government of the party represented by Mr Andersson. Now, in next year's budget, we have set aside EUR 2.9 billion in debt, at the worst since the previous government, with EUR 7 billion in balance. At least it is worth acknowledging the figures if we are ideologically opposed to them. However, if Mr Andersson may charm his own supporters with his speech, it is worth being honest enough to admit to them that the most important thing for the lives of these people is that they have work, that they have a job and earn a living. Above all, there are two things that are extremely important to young people: the first is that we do not impose huge debts on them, because the debts that we take more from our children, from all of them, from our young people and from our children, with the decisions of this house. It's worth remembering this honestly. The second point is that, when all these young people, hopefully as many of them as possible and as many older people as possible who are already unemployed, get a job, they also deserve the standard of living during retirement, the way in which they live, that is, their own pension. It is known that today’s pension provision for almost everyone, except for the big 100,000, is based on a working pension and is being increased from the moment a person goes to work. In other words, I would like to see honesty in these matters and let us be frank about how things are, because if a person gets a job and the unemployment card goes into the labour market, it is really a big deal for the life of a person in every respect and for the public finances and general public finances. As we have seen during this government, the state finances have recovered at a fierce pace, the local government finances are already in good shape, producing surpluses, so it is worth recognising the fact. We have a right to opinions, but it's worth leaving your own facts somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u153	Mr President! I hope that Mrs Hoskonen will be able to take a look at this proposal before us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u156	Mr President! The Competitiveness Pact is a very broad, large entity which has emerged in this contractual society, and the issue that is now being discussed is one dimension in it. However, the aim of the Competitiveness Pact is to defend Finnish work, and this is demonstrated by the fact that the Finnish export industry has been able to take over more new orders in the last year, the consequences of which we have now achieved as a catalyst for this growth. Competitiveness is influenced by productivity and workload. As far as research appropriations are concerned, the problem is not the amount of public research money, but the problem in Finland is the amount of private research money, which has fallen sharply. Today, in the Committee on Finance, an expert consultation showed that: Finland continues to be among the top five in terms of public funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u157	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The case was suspended on 4 October. (meeting of...), the European Economic and Social Committee
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u158	Mr President! The tax burden on labour will continue to decrease with this government proposal, and this is very positive for the progress of our employment. This reduction in income tax is partly due to an increase in the reduction in labour income, partly due to a 1.5% increase in the tax base and partly due to a 0.25 percentage point increase in the marginal tax rate. For employees, this income tax scale proposed by the Board of Directors would lead to a reasonable level of tax reductions in different income categories. For example, a low-income employee who earns EUR 20000 per year would, by percentage, receive a higher tax reduction than the higher-income wage earners, but still slightly or significantly lower in euros than in higher income categories. Of course, the question arises as to whether the profile of this proposed reduction in labour income could be made even more favourable to low and medium incomes, for example, by increasing its maximum amount, but also by increasing the depreciation rate and thus maintaining the overall cost impact of this tax reduction on the State. More attention is drawn to the fact that, in practice, the taxation of pensioners in these smallest categories of income will not be reduced at all or will be reduced by nothing at all, and the most unusual of all is the fact that, rather, the taxation of the largest, i.e. over EUR 10000, monthly pensions will be reduced — and will be reduced even more than the taxation of those who receive the corresponding wage income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u159	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u160	Mr President! The draft law proposes to pay 2.5% of Yle-Tax for annual income exceeding EUR 14000. The change would exempt some 390,000 low-income taxpayers from the public service tax. In practice, this means that those on low incomes will receive more than ten dollars a month in hand. This change would be financed by an increase in the VAT on those on higher incomes from the current EUR 143 to EUR 163. I believe that the proposal is fair and worthy of support. True, it is honest to admit that television viewers in the whole national territory are not in an equal position with regard to TV visibility. In Ostrobothnia, especially in the Alajärvi-Soini-Lehtimäki area, Yle's television broadcasts are poorly visible and sometimes do not appear at all. For several years, Yle, Digita and FICORA have struggled with visibility problems and have been in contact with residents without significant results. The quality of the TV image has not improved, and even if it is not visible, the residents will have to pay this statutory fee. In the past, the Yle-tax was justified, among other things, by safety. According to the arguments put forward at the time, various security announcements from the authorities are transmitted through radio and TV receivers in crisis and emergency situations. When you know that you don't see a TV picture and you don't open the receiver, you can't reach the public with official press releases. This is also why I believe it is essential to ensure that the television image is visible throughout the country. If Digita is unable to provide a high-quality service, there is good reason to ask why it still has to be paid the full price. Mr President! I would suggest that it would be a good idea in the Ministry to consider how we could instruct Digita so that Digita would put enough of these transmitter amplifiers in order to improve the quality of the television picture throughout the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u161	Mr President! This government proposal is to be welcomed for once. It is, of course, because it is one of the themes, perhaps with the fingers of one hand, that the Finns of Peru were genuinely able to pass through the government program, by the way, directly as a supporter and guarantor of the coalition and central politics. This is therefore one of the objectives of the tax exemption for income that earns less than EUR 1000. Since in those categories of income taxes are not as much paid as this YR tax, it is necessary to abolish this tax-free income. However, I think that the problem with this proposal, which is to be supported in itself, is that this payment, which is now being lost here, this tax revenue, will be transferred to a higher category of payments, that is to say, in very many cases to ordinary people. In my opinion, it would have been clearly better to cut the financing of Yle for the tax lost as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u162	Mr President! Mr Hongisto has presented this very well, as is the case here. After all, this was one of Turunen's Yle-teams, who then unanimously ended up in this performance. Taxation is a whole thing. I have already said that this evening in the previous debate and I will say it again that taxation is a whole. Earlier today, when we talked about real estate tax, we heard delightful stories about people living on the poverty line going bankrupt now, at the latest, when the property taxes are increased. I am not defending that it is not something that weakens, but then, once again, when taxation is a whole, this abolition of VAT from 39,000 people who live on the poverty line, a low-income person, is precisely the compensation that compensates, and that is the government's concern for everyone, including the most vulnerable people. In view of the overall picture, 700,000 citizens are currently exempt from VAT and that is not a small amount. However, this amount is EUR 70 in the smallest tax category and is exempted. Then you can say to Mr Mäkelä that I have heard in this Chamber the representative From Mäkelä very long lists of what the Finns of Finland once got into the government, but I think there is now the group that negotiated this government program, in this blue group, and, in fact, if we are to be precise, I think there is one thing I have launched, this tax-free ton that is now finally going to happen with this performance. This is something that I consider to be very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u163	Madam President! Representative Turunen well described this government proposal overall. It is precisely taxation that is a whole. This government proposal specifically takes into account the most low-income people, the Finnish citizens. This government proposal would exempt some 390,000 of the low-income High-Tax taxable persons from the public service tax. I think it is very good, and it is likely that this will not be criticised for the opposition either. For once, it's a good thing. In my opinion, it was a good solution when we moved on to the Yle-Tax, and in this way we see how we can react to it. Representative Hongisto raised the visibility of the TV picture in different parts of Finland. A very good point, and yes, when we have a Yle-tax in Finland and pay a tax-based fee for showing a TV picture, it must be visible throughout Finland and be visible to everyone, so that emergency announcements can also be communicated to everyone there. I personally hope that the government's proposal will move forward as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u164	Madam President! The fact that this issue of general taxation has moved forward in such a way that it has virtually been removed from the lowest incomes is a very good and positive thing. Taxation is a whole, and this abolition of VAT on the lowest income is the right thing to do. The second thing about this, of course, is that we must also ensure that the justified funding of YLE remains in place, because YLE is an extremely important means of communication for all Finns. A lot of people use it when they don't know it. For example, the signer is a big consumer: when you drive in a car down the road, you always listen to the radio, especially when you wait for the weather, and the other, of course, is what the world hears. It is extremely important that the role of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is maintained and funding is secured and justice is at the same time guaranteed, and this government proposal, if anything, is doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u165	Mr President! Indeed, it is very positive that the Yle-Tax Act is being amended so that almost 400,000 low incomes are now exempted from Yle-Tax, and many even lower incomes have already been released during this parliamentary term. As Mr Mäkelä said, this has indeed been a long-term goal for the Finns, and it is great that parliamentary cooperation and in a good spirit reached this result in reducing the Yle-Tax. This will ease the tax burden on many people on low incomes. That is not the achievement of any individual representative. Of course, it is very good that the whole of Parliament seems to be behind this proposal now, at least all parties, and this has been the goal of the Finns of Peru for a long time, as is the fact that the monthly income of less than EUR 1 000 would be able to draw close to tax exemption, and this proposal is already putting it into practice. I also fully share Mr Mäkelä's view that the Finnish Broadcasting Company should in future step up its activities and reduce its costs to the extent that this is appropriate. This cost reduction and efficiency has been achieved throughout society on a very large scale throughout this parliamentary term, and the YLE cannot be a separate island either.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u166	Madam President! All in all, it is very important to secure the operational potential of a diverse, pluralist media, both the YLE and the commercial media. We have had a number of discussions here. I also think it is important, in the case of broadcasting, that there is a parliamentary solution behind this. As we remember in recent history, it has not always been obvious this season that decisions are taken in parliamentary terms, but then, fortunately, they have always been taken back. I very much appreciate it, because each of us in the parties knows that not everyone in that government can sit down, and that is why it is very important that, for example, decisions on our national educational institution as important as those on Broadcasting can be made in a parliamentary agreement. President! I would also like to reiterate my satisfaction with what I think is very important: that this funding for Yle was, in due course, secured by the satose task force, which did a very progressive job, precisely in the sense that Yle was guaranteed a certain level of peace for the years to come in it, because before that time there was no certainty about the actual development of the financial position. This was the kind of long - term that was needed, and later on, these decisions that were returned to be made also in the trio that are at hand were important. I would also like to say that I think it is important that the continuity of Yle's funding was also agreed in this context insofar as these cuts will not be made in 2019, and I would also like to thank the working group for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u167	Mr President! As has been said in the previous speeches, which I have not mentioned, the overall financing of Yle was not dealt with in any way by this decision, but the total funding of Yle remains the same. Then some of the work of this working group: it was a so-called plier birth. It wasn't easy. The group met, I think, four or five times, but four at least. After all, this last meeting was scheduled in such a way that there had been a party meeting between the Finnish People's Party, which was already mentioned here in the Chamber, and the parliamentary group was then dissolved. At this last meeting, then, in fact, where this was finally decided, the then Finnish representative represented the opposition. I think it was still the last meeting in such a way that even Elomaa, who was a representative of the Blue Group, still gave a very critical speech against this motion and then left the scene without remaining at the end of the meeting. But, of course, later it has become clear that he went to have a press conference about going back to the True Finns. This involves such nice memories and very interesting ones. At the end of this speech, however, I would like to give special thanks to the Social Democrats, who, as the main opposition party, then saw this whole for a longer time and the importance of doing these things in Yle in any way parliamentaryly, and to Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u168	Madam President! I have always had an opinion on Yle's activities and what it is, in the satose task force. Among other things, I said that 150 million will be cut out because it is an out-of-date facility, mainly now delivering news from the SDP and the Green Left, and now it has been ensured that they will continue to come, thanks, inter alia, to the assembly. There was not quite such a decision-making capacity as the government should have had at that time. Then there is the good news, of course, that the low-income ones will be left out of it, but the low-income companies will not get out of it. There will be 600 euros a year only High-Tax about to snap, no matter what the level of income. They were completely forgotten. At that time, the Turuse Tax Task Force should have taken this into account, and then, among other things, I rebelled against this issue, but what are you going to do about it alone? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u169	Mr President! I didn't think this would be any longer for me. I would like to thank Mrs Heinäluoma for her thanks and, as has been said, I would like to thank her for her joint decision on these issues, and I would also like to pass on these greetings to her through the Socialist Group in Parliament. I would like to add to this point when we talk about the future of the media as a whole, that what I would also like to see on a common basis would be that, when work has also been carried out to safeguard commercial media news, we would also get adequate presentations from there as a whole. This is a very timely matter, and I hope that we will be able to return to it in the future with a positive mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u170	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen pointed out an important aspect of this VAT on small enterprises, which is very high even for small and low-income companies. Attention should be paid to this. But now that we are talking about history, Mr Turunen has not always been so happy about this performance of the Social Democrats. I have an article in front of me on the Democratic Journal, dated 1.6.17: "According to Tuusen, the opposition did not want to change. ‘Opposition representatives, mainly demars, did not want to reduce the tax burden on low incomes and expand the group of hundreds of thousands exempt from VAT. I find this very regrettable,” Turunen says in the press release." Well, I think this is very regrettable, too, if this was the case, that the Social Democrats did not want to exempt those on low incomes from this general tax, but wanted to lump this into other things, such as the fact that Yle's funding could not be cut in the next few years. That was their long-term goal, and that is what you apparently managed to achieve, in your so-called compromise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u171	Mr President! This was, of course, the basis for the ministry's mandate, which, of course, does not bind the parliamentary working party in any way, but nevertheless gives an indication of what the purpose of the working party is. In that sense, I quite agree that entrepreneurs in these small businesses often live on the poverty line and, according to these studies, they live on a little over a thousand euros a month. It would be justified in the sense that even small companies could be liberalised, but it is then a much more complex system. This was a matter of personal taxation. In further development, it may also be worth considering how to do this for small businesses. Then to this headline that Mäkelä read there. I remember it very well. There was a little discussion about how this working group will be informed externally in the middle of the work of its working group. Of course, this group met, as I said, four times, and it was not always clear whether we were going to have another meeting, but in any case, this statement, which I made, which was also the title of Mäkelä's reading, was briskly before that last meeting. This last meeting, in which this parliamentary group then came to an agreement, was precisely the most impressive and most important meeting that this working party in general came to a conclusion. And at this meeting, precisely at this last meeting, there was this good, constructive spirit, for which I sent these thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u172	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u173	Mr President! In Finland, there are over 700 farms in the form of share companies, approximately one and a half per cent of all farms. However, the transition to share capital has gradually accelerated in agriculture, as has the case with other family businesses. However, it has been prevented by the fact that, as a natural person engaged in a business, a limited liability company has had to pay a transfer tax for a change in the form of a company, which, especially in agriculture, is quite heavy when there is, of course, a substantial production asset and a transfer tax of 4 % of the fair value of the assets. It has been a matter of up to a six-digit integer. The transfer tax of EUR 100000 is very typical in these cases when it concerns land and agricultural production buildings. It is important that the transfer tax should be abolished as a result of a change in the form of judgment. The steak of equity is a 20% corporate tax rate. It makes it possible to act more effectively as a natural person by means of income financing, in extreme cases up to 80% of taxable income, if the necessary income were temporarily acquired elsewhere. As a result of the Government programme entry on transfer tax treatment, the implementation of limited liability companies has now been postponed, but it is clear that the abolition of transfer tax costs will significantly increase the integration of agriculture from the beginning of 2018.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u174	Madam President! Indeed, the operation of farms is changing, as we know, and this government proposal to abolish the tax on transfers of funds as the farm changes its tax form is such that it is extremely important that this law is adopted, because this will make it much easier, much easier, to do so. One important thing is that it also enables cooperation between farms, because many farms may still be considering investment, even though the situation is as it is at present. However, faith in the future is also reasonably strong in agriculture, and that means that many farms have put together a limited company to continue their activities, so that different entrepreneurs in that limited company will then be given new impetus in this way. It also enables holiday arrangements, so that a person, a farmer, sometimes actually gets a holiday. And this abolition of the transfer tax in this case will allow very many farms to have more flexible tax planning, and above all, if it is achieved and if it brings operational benefits to the farm, it is absolutely to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u175	Madam President! I also salute this law with satisfaction. Indeed, the size of the farm is increasing, the activity is changing, and there are indeed situations when it makes sense to act in the form of a limited liability company. In fact, however, it only changes legal status and nothing else happens, so that there is no justification for levying a transfer tax on real estate property. If this can contribute to the success of Finnish food production under this ever-increasing cost pressure, that is a good thing. Perhaps even generational change in the future, when these interpretations of the regulations become clearer, can be easier and, of course, should be greeted with satisfaction, because it is young entrepreneurs that we need to produce Finnish food.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u176	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u177	Mr President! This is an increase in the tax on tobacco, and surely such taxes, when we talk about tobacco taxes, alcohol taxes and so on, are, among other things, forms of taxation that are justified from a public health point of view. I asked for this speech, in fact, because I would also like to remind you that Parliament has discussed quite a lot of such health taxes, and now that a decision has been taken to abolish the sweet tax, at the same time, for example, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously stated that it was important to have a substitute health-based tax in place of this abolished sweet tax, and the social democrats, among others, have supported this common line in this Parliament, have also taken it up their own options. I remember that at the time of the debate, the Minister for Finance promised that something like this would start to be prepared, and I would really like something to be done. It is a matter of significant tax revenue and public health and, therefore, of wider social impact. I would have liked to know where we're going with this show, because we're in a bit of a hurry. In time, this sweets tax was abolished on the grounds that the EU would ask us to do this, but it was then clarified and it was stated that similar types of tax exist in the EU countries. And then the question came — when, at the beginning of its term, two years ago, the government knew that this sweet tax would go away as such — why it did not go into preparation at that time. Well, it's good that we promised to leave a year ago, but I think that what we're doing with it now would have been a good thing to go through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u178	Madam President! The gradual increase in the tobacco tax over the next two years seems to me to be a very good and well-founded draft law. From the point of view of public health, smoking is a very harmful phenomenon, and many people find themselves suffering from diseases that will then cost an enormous amount of money on that various hospital tours. I would therefore like to see further progress in this area to reduce the harmful effects of smoking by reducing smoking. Taxation will certainly provide an excellent way of doing so — the harmful tax on tobacco will be increased because it is really harmful to health — but I would also like all children, when they start school, to be told fairly and honestly not only about the harmful effects of tobacco but also about the harmful effects of alcohol. That health education is the most important thing. Since childhood, when we give our children health education, such phenomena as smoking or the consumption of another harmful substance are reduced and health is improved. After all, there is one great capital in a person’s life with us, and that is health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u179	Mr President! The tobacco tax is a good example of a harmful tax which I personally welcome. Although here earlier today I have criticised, among other things, increases in property tax, I am quite different from the tobacco tax. The tobacco tax has already been increased several times during this parliamentary term, and this quite logical line seems to continue with this government proposal. As I recall, these previous increases during this parliamentary term have been made unanimously. I'm not quite sure about this, but this is how I'd remember it. I hope that this unanimous line will continue with this proposal as well. Mr Hoskonen spoke here for public health reasons, and it is easy to agree with these views. This tobacco is a very dangerous substance for many Finns, it causes many problems, health problems and even deaths in the form of cancers, among other things. Even for public health reasons and considerations, this proposal for an increase is well founded and will hopefully prevent these extensive health and health costs of smoking, as well as large costs for society. These previous increases in the tobacco tax have also resulted in a significant increase in government tax revenues. I hope the same happens with this performance. The only concern here is the possible increase in smuggling, but at least it has not increased much in the past, partly due to these gradual changes in tax increases. In other words, they have been made six months a year, and I believe that with this proposal we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u180	Mr President! I agree with this praise for raising the tobacco tax. It is, of course, a measure to improve the situation in terms of public health. There has been a debate here about who is the father of what kind of legal project, and I can say genuinely and truthfully that this matter was dealt with most in government negotiations in Smolna by Mrs Zyskowicz. So if anyone else claims to be worthy of this, they will speak the modified truth. Zyskowicz was very much behind this performance. Perhaps it is a little problematic for traders to raise the rate every six months. Then I could say to Mr Viitan that a sugar tax has been proposed and planned to replace the sugar tax, but apparently it has been cut off in practice because of the fact that the technical construction of that tax is practically overwhelming.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u181	Mr President! Although I am not against the increase in the tobacco tax in itself, I would still like to point out that it is a reality that not all those who want to quit smoking can just get rid of that tobacco, and it has also been said several times in this Chamber during Question Time that tobacco tax is one of the things that raises the burden of paying low incomes in this overall tax picture. Furthermore, when tobacco imports across the eastern border were tightened by the government in the amendment of the Tobacco Act, it caused a certain regional inequality in the fact that EU imports are, however, being made in coastal port cities and now that tobacco cannot be imported across the eastern border, so people feel that this was a regionally unequal decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u182	Madam President! Well, that's bad news if we're completely out of preparation. This sugar tax itself has been investigated years ago and a certain problem has been identified for a number of reasons. But specifically I remember very well last autumn: When the sweets tax was abolished and the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously also spoke of such a broader health-based tax, the finance minister, Orpo, said that a model for such a health-based tax would now be sought. If that is the case, as Mr Kiviranta said, that in practice this is not being prepared, and it has been a year, then was there, as I recall, an estimated EUR 100 million, which is a loss of tax revenue. In that sense, of course, the promise that was given a year ago should now be taken up as a matter of urgency. We definitely need this preparation and also implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u183	Mr President! Of course, if you're a representative. The reference has good proposals, precise proposals
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u186	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u187	Mr President! In fact, we have already covered this issue earlier today in connection with the proposal for a law on real estate taxes, which is one of the proposals to compensate municipalities for the abolition of early childhood education contributions by increasing the share of municipalities in corporate taxation. As I said earlier, I consider the compensation policy to be absolutely wrong, and I believe that this compensation should have been made through these. But, Mr President, there is one concern. Here's one thing to worry about. For example, when we have already heard the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in the Tax Division, it turns out that when this particular proposal is intended to compensate some 60 million, property tax about 25, and then state tax about 25, a total of EUR 110 million, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities itself tells us that the additional costs of abolishing the payment of early childhood education to municipalities in general are not enough, even as a whole. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities is talking about the need for compensation of some 130 to 140 million, which therefore goes between two and thirty million more than what the government says is now being compensated for. I would also like to draw attention to this fact in this plenary session that we should now be very careful of the government parties, that the promises of compensation are fulfilled, but hopefully by wise means, and, as I have said, I do not think that property tax is part of that wisdom.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u188	Madam President! I think that the abolition of early childhood education fees from around 7,000 families is a very good and well-founded thing. Indeed, I think it is well founded to compensate for it. It should be noted to Mr Viitanen that he has persistently maintained his own line here, but I would now say that, when various taxes and charges are imposed, they are always money for society to provide services. For example, the tax collection issue for municipalities is of the utmost importance for the early childhood education levy, which is the general situation of the municipality’s economy. In the last two years it has improved dramatically in the municipalities of Finland. In your reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u191	Mr President! Of course, the overall picture and the overall picture are the most relevant, but even in those details there is always at least some small meaning, sometimes even greater. Well, this proposal now deals with this change in the share of corporation tax so that municipalities will become more involved in the future. As an individual proposal, it is quite worthy of support. As municipalities receive a higher share of corporate tax revenue, they will be given greater incentives to develop their industrial policies and attract growing, employment-rich, well-performing companies. This is in itself a perfectly understandable objective, and in that sense it is easy to agree with this proposal. However, I would like to return a little bit to this earlier debate, which has also been the subject of this paragraph, on these reductions in early childhood education fees and compensation for them to the municipalities. It has been stated on several occasions that this compensation consists of three parts: 60 million of this proposal, then 25 million of the increase in the central government share of basic services and EUR 25 million of the increase in the limits of property tax. I am in the same line as Mr Viitanen here that this increase in property taxation, and especially its lower limit, is a problem. In my opinion, it does not in any way increase the potential of municipalities, rather it narrows them down and forces them to increase their property taxes. It would have made sense, perhaps, to allow greater room for manoeuvre: to allow the lower limit to remain in place and to raise the upper limit of the property tax rates. It would have been up to the municipalities themselves to decide what to do. Now even in cases where municipalities do not have the willingness to increase their property tax rates, they have been forced to do so. However, this very proposal, which concerns this share of corporation tax, must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u192	Madam President! It is surprising in itself that we have been having this debate in this Chamber for two and a half years now, and Mrs Hoskonen has still not read the alternative budgets of the SDP, which we have already been building up for two in this time period, and the third is coming. It specifically contains the comprehensive proposals on taxation, and the overall equation has been put forward in such a way that more work, more fairness, more justice, less debt and a fairer tax structure. You, Mr Hoskonen, can now finally get to grips with our alternative budget so that you no longer have to use these many speeches on this point, so that small things are just criticised and raised here and there is no overall picture. Then there's the very important thing: When we talk about fairness not only in tax policy, but also about cuts in these holiday money, for example, from hard-working employees in the public sector, we have here as the SDP, for example, demanded that we take back and cancel future cuts. And when Mr Hoskonen here just proved how brilliant all the municipalities are, it will certainly support it too, hopefully a common idea sooner or later, to see that growth belongs to everyone. It also belongs to those nurses, nurses, cookers, cleaners and public workers, and that is why this surgery should be cancelled. The SDP is proposing not only that it be withdrawn, but also that sufficient appropriations be made available for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u193	Mr President! In the role of the municipal decision-maker, I think it is a good idea, in principle, that if the municipalities are given additional obligations or are deprived of the possibility of charging, then the matter is not left as a purely municipal problem, but as a matter of state, which could be compensated for. Last season, this was done by imposing obligations on municipalities and not telling them where the money will be taken from, and then, in practice, it often means raising tax rates, which, in turn, makes the municipality's finances and life opportunities miserable. I feel that this principle, too, has now been abandoned by the government and shows the municipalities where the money can be found, is one of the few good things that have been left behind in the government program under the influence of the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u194	Madam President! Yes The cape has some strange ideas about how the world is going at the moment. His budget message is'more work, less debt', as he has just testified strongly, but at that time you would have had these real papers at hand during the period of government responsibility. I'm sorry, Mr. Viitanen, that you always have the wrong papers when you're somewhere. If you are in the government, then you will have false papers with you, because then the debt will increase, unemployment will increase, employment will fall. Now that you're in the opposition, now you have the right papers, but at the wrong time. Now try to exchange those papers one day, at least sometime, for the next 20 years you will have the right papers with you at the right time! If I had always kept the wrong papers with me in my time as a forester, I would have been on the eastern border many times when the wrong maps had been included, and returning there is a little more difficult than making one budget speech. Just once, try to have the right papers with you at the right time. I would love the situation so much when I could see such a situation in your activities. Then there's the other thing: You're making a mistake, too, that I'd told you that the county was doing great. The situation in the municipalities has improved, and there is still a long way to go to the great situation. I said that the economic situation of municipalities has improved by 400 million according to last year's calculations. So that's what you faked, too, but that's a small thing. I very much hope that one day you will have the right papers. That's a day I can wait for.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u195	Mr President! I think Mr Hoskonen is enjoying the fact that the SDP has had the right papers today. After all, the evidence of all economic scholars says that the economy actually started in the summer of 2015,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-10-ps-101.u198	For table setting, the 16th item of the order of business is presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 12 October 2017. The Council of Presidents proposes that the single reading of the draft amending budget should follow the following procedure: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance shall submit his amendment to the central office by 11 October 2017 at the latest at 2 p.m. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. In a detailed debate, all amendments will be tabled and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
