ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u1	The third item in the order of business is the Prime Minister's announcement of the Healthy Spaces Decade Action Programme for 2018-2028. After a presentation by Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen, I will, at my discretion, issue replies of up to 2 minutes, and they will be reserved at the site using the V button. An hour and a half shall be reserved for the hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u2	Mr President! The Parliamentary Audit Committee prepared a report on moisture and mould problems in buildings in 2013. In May of the same year, Parliament required that the government take steps to reduce indoor air problems. The Government has taken Parliament's views on its programme for several years. There is still work to be done, but results have also been achieved, such as the implementation of the Moisture and molding project. In September 2017, the Prime Minister set up a project team to prepare the Healthy Spaces Decade Action Programme to continue good cooperation and achieve the objectives. The programme will focus on cooperation for the next ten years in order to help those suffering from indoor air. At the same time, the way in which the prevention of indoor air problems in public buildings is part of the everyday life of real estate management will be consolidated. The problems will be addressed quickly and a solution will be sought. The proposal for an action programme is now in place. The proposed measures mean continuing work in several administrative sectors, at all levels of government, especially in municipalities and in social and health care. The results should be seen both as a reduction in the number of people suffering from indoor air and as an improvement in the condition of the municipal building stock by the end of 2028 at the latest. The operational programme will be published in mid-December and the opportunity will be opened to provide feedback through several channels. Over the next few months, we intend to consult as widely as possible municipalities, stakeholders and all those concerned and interested in the condition of the public building stock and indoor air problems. We will then finalise the programme for implementation, and the implementation will start in spring 2018. The most common causes of indoor air problems are still moisture and mould damage, ventilation problems and temperature and traction problems that plague our ageing building stock. This is how municipalities report back in 2011, and so far there are only signs of a slight improvement. According to preliminary data on the state of the municipal building stock, less than half of the municipalities have acquired the renovation debt. More than half of municipalities still report indoor air problems as unresolved. However, we know that something is being done in every municipality to improve the situation. There are plenty of people exposed to impurities caused by moisture and mould damage in Finland. Much of them are exposed to school and day care buildings. The indoor air problems of public buildings currently cause not only economic impacts but also problems related to human health, well-being and social relations. For these reasons, our proposals for measures focus on public buildings. However, this does not exclude cooperation with the private sector, but rather we hope it will. Similarly, solutions to be developed during the coming programming period will of course be usable in buildings, regardless of the owner, just as the range of means available to all property owners in the case of moisture, mould or soon to come into force. Similarly, indoor air sufferers are treated regardless of whether a link between symptoms and predisposings can be demonstrated. More specifically, however, we are not going to go into the specific questions of indoor air problems in privately owned buildings. Buildings with indoor air problems are found around the world. The health problems caused by the problems have been recognised, especially in the Nordic countries and North America. In Sweden, for example, it has been reported in 2011 that an estimated one third of Swedish buildings have moisture damage — mould growth or bad smell — that may have an impact on the indoor environment. Moisture and mold were more common in small houses. In Finland, the public building stock currently has considerable investment needs. The excessive number of building stock in relation to service needs, the age structure of the building stock and the inappropriate facilities are reflected, among other things, in the underutilisation of buildings — some 8-10% of the building stock is empty — and in a repair debt estimated at around EUR 5 billion. This partly explains the persistence of indoor air problems and the difficulty of getting rid of them. Mr President! The Healthy Spaces 2028 project group consists of experts who have been solving problems caused by the moisture and molding of buildings for a long time. Cooperation with municipalities and their representatives has made it possible to familiarise themselves with the experiences of municipalities. Some of the experiences of municipalities are good and have used practices that need to be made public and multiplied for use by municipalities of different sizes. Some of the experiences underscore the difficulties and the extent of the problems in an unfortunate way. Good experiences are combined with an approach where information about one building and its condition is considered in relation to the municipality's real estate strategy and service network as a whole. Information on the condition of the property and the service network and user feedback has been evaluated in the municipalities in multiprofessional cooperation groups and solutions sought. There are often many factors in buildings with indoor air problems at the same time, and to identify them requires expertise and experience that is not always available or not sufficiently exploited. Experience shows that the lack of a strategic, comprehensive vision hampers the long-term development of the municipal building stock. Among other things, factors related to the decision-making of municipalities and intensified local government finances have also emerged in the search for reasons. Mr President! Now, the Healthy Spaces Decade Action Programme proposes a move towards a comprehensive review of properties and more effective treatment of health problems. We propose that work start in 2018 by intensifying the assistance and support of indoor air sufferers. Work will continue throughout the programme period towards the target year 2028, when educational institutions, day-care centres, care institutions and other public buildings will be healthy and safe to use. This is the aim of the programme. This can be achieved through the consolidation of practices in service-oriented and sustainable property management and the proactive maintenance of buildings, which is in line with the best practices currently in use in municipalities. The draft measures include a proposal for the development of operating models. In order to function in accordance with good examples, the municipality requires a real estate strategy and a service network plan, as well as regular real estate reviews and user feedback collection, to be operational. In the design phase of buildings, it is possible to bring different entities together using, for example, the alliance model and life-cycle models. There are interesting examples of these that have also made it possible to take greater account of the operational potential of the property, such as a learning environment supporting the implementation of a modern curriculum or a variety of multi-purpose facilities. A model based on good practice would also make it more effective to increase knowledge, for example, to identify indoor air problems and address problems. This in turn means stepping up information and training in areas such as building physics, health care, purchasing and customer skills. Mr President! The programme will also focus on helping and supporting those suffering from indoor air, inter alia by strengthening advice for both people directly and professionals helping them. It is important that the entire treatment path for indoor air sufferers is made visible and accessible to everyone by the means currently available. In order to support the long-term situation of people with indoor illness, work is needed to facilitate treatment pathways from self-care to primary health care, special care and well-functioning rehabilitation. Similarly, social security for those suffering from indoor air remains to be addressed in order to identify and correct any shortcomings. The state of play regarding the preparation of the Decade of Healthy Spaces Action Programme will be discussed from this day on. The beginning of the consultation phase will be announced by mid-December when the technical publication is completed. The consultation phase is wide: it will therefore begin today in Parliament, but the scope will become visible when the municipalities responsible for implementation, stakeholders, experts from different sectors and citizens across the country are able to participate in this consultation. The project group proposes to organise the implementation of the operational programme through close cooperation between ministries and their administrative agencies, regional government agencies, the Finnish Association of Local Authorities, municipalities and Senate buildings, as well as by ensuring the participation of stakeholders in the building and real estate sector, social welfare and health and education sectors. It is the view of the project group that Parliament, and in particular the Audit Committee, play an important role in the parliamentary debate and in monitoring implementation from start to end of the project. Cost pressures have been identified in the operational programme. State funding for owners of real estate is not included in the operational programme. Instead, the methods used by municipalities to implement projects promoting the condition of the property will be examined during the work. This will be the subject of cooperation right from the start of the implementation period. The work is based on the results of the ongoing project on the development and saving potential of the municipal building stock, which will be available at the beginning of 2018. These will be taken into account in the finalisation of the Healthy Facilities Action Programme. The project group's draft measures mainly cover the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of the Environment and the Prime Minister's Office. The work must primarily be adapted to the normal tasks of ministries and, where additional funding is necessary, it must be referred to the spending limits and budgetary procedure. The data will be revised as the preparation progresses at the relevant ministry. Mr President! This debate today in Parliament is the first debate on the proposal for an operational programme prepared during autumn 2017, and as such is very important to us in the finalisation of the programme. The term of office of the project group ends at the end of February 2018. The following months since December are in practice reserved for information and consultation on proposals. A broad feedback on the programme proposal is expected on the basis of which the project group will finalise the programme for implementation in the ten-year period beginning in spring 2018. There is therefore enough to implement for several years of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u3	Now we can move on to the debut. I ask those who wish to join us to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up. Let us have a two-minute speech until 3 p.m. and then move on to the one-minute speeches. — Mr Hassi will begin, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u4	Mr President! It is very good that this programme has been launched under the leadership of the Prime Minister. Let us hope that the measures proposed by the last parliamentary audit committee will now also be put to an end to the stigmatisation of the sick as hypochondriacs. Today, a study of indoor air problems carried out by the trade union association SuPer, together with the University of Turku, has been published at the workplace of the members of the trade union, and this has also been done before by Tehy and OAJ members. According to the results of these studies, the smell of mold in the workplace correlates statistically significantly not only with asthma but also with several other diseases such as joint symptoms, muscle and back pain, chronic fatigue syndrome and several neurological symptoms. The new observation is that exposure to the smell of sewage correlates with even more diseases than exposure to the smell of mold. Thus, only diseases designated or identified by a doctor have been taken into account in these studies. We know that many microbes in moisture damage buildings produce very powerful toxins. Depreciation and correction of illnesses, which are supposed to save half-heartedly not savings but increases the cost of the public sector, as this means that those affected will have to continue to be exposed, thus reducing work, increasing absenteeism from work and premature retirement. The understatement of illnesses also slows down the correction of deficiencies on the building side. The worst thing is that delaying and doing repairs half-baked makes children and young people sick. It is in the younger age groups that asthma and inflammatory bowel disease are at stake. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u5	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. The brick yard for bringing this really important issue here to Parliament and freshly telling us what the government is doing. During the last parliamentary term, the Audit Committee chaired by Mr Brax did a very long and thorough job in identifying the problems of mould and moisture and also produced a major programme, which was approved by the Parliamentary Assembly, what should be done. It has now been implemented. However, it can be said that there are still a number of issues to be addressed in the implementation process, and these relate, among other things, to the way in which operators in the sector are trained to use building solutions and construction-time working methods that would reduce this problem of moisture and mould. What is alarming is that these problems concern not only the old housing stock or the old building stock, but new buildings that have been completed a few years ago. Last time there was an example of Jätkäsaari where a wooden apartment building was built without protection for rain. We are now at a new climax, which was supposed to be an example of Finnish quality building, dealing with the mold problem. It's shocking. Over a thousand schools suffer from these problems. As Mr Hassi said here, it is unusual to think that we are forcing both teachers and students to put their health at risk so that they can do the work they have been given. The Audit Committee went through these activities now in connection with the Government's annual report last year and concluded that the current measures will not be sufficient. We have to go over the responsibilities as well. There are clearly too few consequences for making wolf and second or not making these proper maintenance in completed buildings. The committee therefore proposes to Parliament that Parliament should require the government to go through its responsibilities and make the necessary changes to the legislative proposals,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u6	President! I agree with the views of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoto, and I really congratulate the government on the fact that this issue has been raised in this way as a programme of long-term work. This is a long-term job that is really needed in Finland. I also draw attention to the fact that this is a very far-reaching issue of good construction. In Finland, the level of construction has not been good enough. This must be improved, and it is also the responsibility of the construction sector and its operators. Here I come to these issues of responsibility referred to by Mr Heinäluoma. Ultimately, someone must take responsibility for having bad construction in individual locations, and these must also be sorted out carefully, because if there is no such question of responsibility, then we will not be able to solve this bad construction and problems. Indeed, still, the Audit Committee did a long-term job here — of course it was also done in other committees at parliamentary level — and it has been extended. And indeed, when we get to this implementation of Healthy Spaces program, this is a good thing. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when these repairs have been made in moldhouses, all too often they fail. One can say that half of these corrections will fail, and that too is a problem that should be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u7	Mr President! These indoor air problems and the people who have suffered from them are a huge problem. The shameful problem is that we have not been able to find solutions. It's not easy because the problem is complex. This is about both buildings and people, and only one cannot concentrate on. For people, the most important thing is to get a diagnosis, receive treatment and receive rehabilitation. Now, in practice, those who are sick at their worst pass from a specialist to a specialist and face understatement. At worst, they're said to be hypochondriacs. There's no point in dreaming about treatment and rehabilitation. We need a clinical research unit that can help create diagnoses and build good treatment chains. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has drawn attention to this issue and has seen that, for example, in Turku, there would be an opportunity to set up such a research unit, which could thus benefit the whole of Finland. As far as buildings are concerned, we often stop and talk about the debt of repair. It is quite true, it is huge, and it needs to be taken up by the municipalities. But if we think that we are simply allocating funds to pay off the repair debt, or even disassemble and build a new one, we will go from ditch to allikko, because our problem is not only in the poor quality of construction, but in the fact that we do not have the skills to maintain real estate. Jyväskylä provides us with a good example of the operating model that enables the municipality to maintain and react to its own real estate when it hears of concerns. But at its worst, we're gonna make some repair money to fix it wrong. Let us be frank: this is so much money that there are many people who do not want the causes of the problems to be revealed, because someone is responsible for doing things badly. Sometimes it would be the same as admitting what was originally wrong. I hope that this issue will not remain at the level of speech, but that we can find practical measures, financial resources: let us start with this clinical research unit, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u8	Madam President! The Minister raised an important point here. The Audit Committee has indeed intervened in this respect. As Mr Modig mentioned here, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we drew attention to this kind of clinical unit, which would be mobilised for EUR 500000, that is to say, a start-up effort to get the diagnostics, treatment chains and measurements right. Quite a lot of this debate turns to schools and kindergartens — very important. I will also raise the garrison as one aspect. I'd like to see the big gays in the garrison. It cannot be right for young men and women who go about their duty to be molded and possibly to be interrupted, as many have had to interrupt the service because the air is not in order. There are different practices in municipalities. One thing that needs to be in order in every municipality is that there is a chain which can be used to tell you about the problems you are experiencing without, as it were, stigmatizing or accusing you of raising the issue. This is a matter of the health of dozens of thousands of students and staff. There must be a channel through which you can make a proper announcement and receive the notification in a proper manner and then proceed with the amendments accordingly. One more point of view: the municipalities play this key role. Municipalities also do different kinds of municipal marketing — I myself have been the city’s marketing manager in charge of communication and marketing. I encourage some Finnish municipality to brand itself as a moldless municipality, there is an order for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u9	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Government for bringing this matter into the House with a comprehensive approach — as Mr Tiilikainen said in his own presentation — but, at the same time, of course, I would like to ask why this two years since the government's mandate on these matters has been quite passive. I am the chairman of Parliament's allergy and asthma network, and on behalf of that network we asked a written question last spring, asking, among other things, about prevention, early detection and uniform treatment chains. Of course, I am very pleased that very soon after our written question, the Prime Minister called a group of experts and now the train is moving forward. I would also like to ask you that, when you clearly consider these issues to be very important, that is why it was actually decided, from the very beginning of this year, to put an end to the ARA repair aid system, precisely in order to eliminate health problems. Would it not, then, be possible to help those who, for example, have fallen ill in these premises by means of such forms of financial support? President! I personally feel that good indoor air is a fundamental right for all of us and we cannot afford to leave people exposed to poor indoor air in vain. We know from the results that learning outcomes are deteriorating, that there will be absenteeism, and that is also the issue of safety at work. The risk of exclusion from society is very high if you get sick. I would like to see answers from the government to these questions in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u10	Madam President! According to the current regulations, ventilation is planned to be under pressure of between 2 % and 3 %. In my opinion, one of the biggest if not the biggest factor in mold and moisture problems is ventilation, which is designed to be underpressure. The result is that the moisture is condensed in the structures, especially in winter, when the air currents do not escape outwards, so that the drying would normally occur, but the underpressure pulls the moisture into the structures and inwards, and the other factor is that the mold spores will then float better into the room. The Decree on the indoor climate of the new building of the Ministry of the Environment, adopted last year on 7.10. and will enter into force on 1 January 18, Article 20 states that “the special designer must design the air currents of the building’s outdoors and exits in such a way that they are in balance”. I think there is one correction here in the right direction, which can achieve that moisture in the structures moves in the right direction and mold spores do not float there in the room. Minister Tiilikainen, is it that the regulation has been changed in this direction, one recognition now from the Ministry of the Environment to the need to convert ventilation to overpressure?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u11	Mr President! The Government's proposal for action is all right, but now we need rapid measures and also euros. This is what we wish for in the field as soon as possible. We can't wait any longer. Youth is the future of Finland, but it is a pity that many children all over Finland struggle inside moldy and moist buildings and at the same time try to study. Take an example of my hometown of Lahti: Already every fifth comprehensive school student in Lahti is studying in evasive spaces. In Lahti there are 10,200 pupils in comprehensive school, 2140 in evasive spaces, and now some of the evasive spaces are also under moisture damage. Taxes have to be raised in order to get rid of these problems, to build renovations all the time, to build new schools in Lahti, but it is not enough, the money is not always enough. It would therefore be desirable for the state to be involved in these moldings in order to make these farms healthy. According to a report published by the Parliamentary Audit Committee in 2012, the annual cost of health damage related to moisture and mould damage is estimated to be around EUR 450 million, including symptoms, diseases, research and loss of working capacity and effectiveness. The difficulty of calculating is that the top fork is up to EUR 1 billion. Can't we bet on this now? According to the report, a one - billion one-off effort to repair significantly moisture and mold damaged buildings would cost itself back in three years — three years. Now the government should come along and do molding and put money into transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u12	Irade the Talman! This is too much of a familiar question for too many schoolchildren. In my municipality in Kirkkonummi, a few weeks ago, a row of barracks, temporary school containers came into the courtyard of the Gesterby School Centre. In the neighbouring municipality of Siuntio, 75 percent of the children are on temporary premises. So something should be done. It should be clear that the slow municipal decision-making process will not be replaced by a reduction in the construction schedule. It should be clear that we dare to use quality indicators in procurement. It should be clear that the courage to reject the underpriced offer. It should be clear that, at the latest, when insulation comes to the site, the construction site has also been dwindled. It should be clear that the person who coordinates the maintenance work has also been involved in the planning and construction phase. And finally, fitness research is something that is not used when problems arise, but during the maintenance process. When you walk through Helsinki, you look at the doors of restaurants, and there's a smiley sign that this kitchen is clean, it's safe to eat here. Why do we not have the same marking on the buildings? If a building that has been through a fitness check every five years and where a mold dog has been visited every two years has survived this checkup, it will get the smiley door wrong. Then it is safe for a parent to leave a child there in the morning, knowing that it is safe to be there. What do you say, Minister Tiilikainen, to try to move this idea forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u13	Madam President! Safe and healthy public spaces are the right of all Finns, whether they are children, the elderly or, in particular, employees who operate in the public sector. The moisture and mold damage of buildings, these indoor air problems, are very personal experiences. One person is more exposed and sick than the other. For example, cleaning and cleaning agents used can also affect how public areas are exposed to asthma, for example. I say that we have improvements in all sectors, both in the design, implementation, construction, maintenance, use and cleaning of buildings. Surely there is not one medicine that should be put in order, and then we would be able to get rid of all the problems. We have a lot of needs all over the country, for which all of us decision-makers and also the government are responsible, to have more funding to replace these problematic buildings. In Oulu, we are always wondering whether problems can ever be fixed or whether we should put them together with pills and build new ones. This is the problem we're always thinking about. The Minister highlighted the life cycle model, which is precisely the way to ensure that the builder is constantly involved in the use of the building and in the everyday life that the taillights do not just flash after the building has been built, but are involved in the operation and maintenance of the building throughout its operation. The government is currently running a programme for the construction of wood, for which millions of dollars are being spent. Would this timber construction be the advantage for Finland? We have good models, for example, in Pudasjärvi we have already found safe, healthy, good air quality. Wood construction
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u14	Mr President! People deserve healthy and safe spaces. It is already a fundamental right and this concern is shared by the whole Parliament. It is important that the government now has this mold and moisture stake project under way. However, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, said, there is a great deal to be done to ensure that the ten important impetuss adopted during the last period are realised. One question is precisely the responsibilities and the quality of construction, including land use and building reforms and many other reforms that require better quality so that the wolf and the second are not built so that even new buildings are quickly affected by mold and moisture damage. One key issue is the protection of moisture during construction, which must be better required of the builders. I would ask the Minister for an assessment of the progress of legislative projects. Then there is another key issue: the right of people suffering from molding to be heard and understood and to be given clear treatment. It would be very important, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has suggested, that people suffering from moisture problems in their own care unit should be quickly diagnosed and treated. Thirdly, I would like to highlight the fact that many times the damage is going too far before people's symptoms are taken seriously. I therefore ask the government how it will promote the introduction of symptom surveys, such as a THL symptom survey, as a tool in all our public spaces, so that, in a situation where the staff, pupils, children, workers become clearly aware of the symptoms through the symptom survey, they can act quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u15	Mr President! It is quite right to ask what is wrong with new buildings and newly renovated buildings having these problems of moisture and mould. These have been discussed for a very long time, and even during the time that they have been discussed, new problems arise. For this reason it is certainly excellent that this kind of consistent project is taken into account, where best practices are used in different municipalities, in what way these problems have been overcome. We have day-care centres, schools, other public buildings in very big problems, and not so much the buildings, but those within their buildings who work day-to-day. From the health point of view of children and young people and adults, such as teachers, these are very problematic. When this issue is acute and genuinely needs to be corrected, the Social Democrats, in their own alternative budget, have proposed EUR 100 million in funding, as it were, for the seed money to be offered to the municipalities in this area and now for the correction of these things. It is quite clear that the correction money alone will not help if things are done badly. Education, regulations, too, must be good enough. I think that this emoticon thinking was good for constantly monitoring that the facilities are healthy and safe. But it is precisely those best practices and their implementation to the municipal level and the health of buildings that are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u16	Madam President! Thank you to the Sipilä Government for addressing indoor air problems now. The health of too many Finns has been destroyed due to indoor air problems in public spaces: children, teachers, nurses, representative Kiuru raised the garrison, not to mention the sick and elderly, who are often bed-sitting and have to be in such spaces. We've got to get out of these. But I would like to thank Minister Tiilikainen once again for your intervention in these matters. Just at the end of last week, you made a new regulation on moisture control, and that is exactly what it is about. Former Minister for Food In our section, Tiilikainen used an excellent example: how do we ensure that the cold chain of food does not break at any point, but what has happened so far with the dry chain of construction? It has been broken on a number of points, as has been pointed out here, but in the future this excellent moisture control regulation, which was approved by Minister Tiilikainen last Friday, will address this. This is a major change and I hope that this will be able to respond to these problems in building the future. Some of the problems are due to construction — wet concrete, a certain kind of glue, plastic mat and so forth — but some are also problems during use, such as failure to provide maintenance, failure to maintain maintenance, lack of air supply or incorrect use, and we therefore need to have such a maintenance book thinking more strongly to monitor what is happening there in the buildings. We already have, for example, Hyvinkää,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u17	Mr President! We are talking about a real problem, and I think it is very good that Parliament is now discussing indoor air problems. But it is, of course, a little interesting to have this debate when we do not have this operational programme here yet, or if I understand it correctly, it will only be completed in a few weeks' time. In any case, this is a good idea that the improvement of the municipal building stock will now finally be completed, perhaps hopefully, by the end of 2028, but yes, ten years is quite a long time. We know that in many municipalities these solutions to indoor air problems have already begun to be made in day-care centres, schools, hospitals, while we are most of us as municipal decision-makers and we are struggling with these problems. In fact, I would have liked to ask the Minister what Mrs Lehto referred to earlier, namely funding. In this programme of measures, Minister, do you intend to allocate some funding to the municipalities in order to solve these indoor air problems? The Left Alliance has also proposed EUR 100 million in support to repair these public facilities in the municipalities. I believe that, in large part, however, money is what counts. The finances of the municipalities are in very poor condition, and I do not believe that any of us in the municipality or any of us would have such a desire not to correct and tackle these problems, but that funding is lacking in most municipalities anyway. I would like to mention one more thing about these evasive spaces. I hope that in all municipalities the evasive spaces in which pupils and kindergarten children are present could also be appropriate. In my home town of Riihimäki, for example, one group of day-care centres has been moved to the three blocks of flats, and I do not see that it is in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u18	Mr President! Last season this need in Parliament was seen, and that was the broad round table at the beginning of June, and I would like to thank the ministers for taking up this programme of measures quickly, as was said then. As we know, this is a very wide-ranging problem. Both buildings and people of different ages in different parts of Finland are very sick, and after exposure and illness they are not only in that building. It is very important that people are taken seriously, heard, answered and taken up their problems. I would like to ask the Minister: is the operational programme paying sufficient attention to this issue and giving sufficient guidance to actors in the municipalities in this area? So people are being heard and their problems are being taken seriously. Then whether it is right or wrong: We spend a lot of money, but problems are often sidelined just for a little while. For one acute enough, I would say that we should ensure that the repair is really adequate and, if it is sufficient, whether it is done with an adequate level of repair. That is also what I would have asked: is this programme sufficiently focused on this issue? Dry chains, very necessary. Will they continue to demand them everywhere? Then care chains, and training is also needed for health care staff. But we really need urgent action here on the social security side, because many families are in a very desperate situation. Parents are not only concerned about children but also about financial problems, and despair is great. I would like to ask: now that the municipalities are also in big problems and there is a great deal of need for correction and the need for the euro, and that the state is doing a little better, should the government not see that there are also bigger and real europanos in order to help the municipalities? The Christian Democrats have also proposed a sum of 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u19	Mr President! It is very important, because there are far too many buildings with indoor air problems and far too many people are suffering from indoor air problems and their consequences. The problems need to be genuinely identified and recognised in time. That is why, in my opinion, each municipality should have separate interdisciplinary indoor air working groups, which would then be able to react quickly enough to the problems. Then there's a few things I'd like to tell you. Designed and built in Finland, buildings specifically suitable for Finnish conditions, and hopefully also made from Finnish materials. The second thing is that all of us auto-owners probably have fixed-term maintenance for those cars. So why should buildings not have separate maintenance programmes? Buildings will also be maintained and renovated on their own time, and maintenance appropriations will also be reserved for buildings, and clear management instructions and management measures will be prepared for buildings and building materials. One thing that has already been raised here in the debate is that people who suffer from indoor air problems should also receive support and access to treatment in a timely manner, so that it is not prolonged. In fact, I would also like to summarise as a guideline that designers, builders, supervisors, building managers and owners should have so much professional pride that the result must be acceptable and suitable for others, if it is acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u20	Mr President! In my home town of Espoo, the Farm Services Department has developed a new type school solution that will be used in several city evasive and additional space projects. Above all, the city’s goal is to bring this use of emergency escape facilities to zero in four years. In Niipper, Espoo, the old school was found to be a health hazard at the beginning of 2016 — I was myself in this decision to dismantle this school on the teaching board at the time — and in early 2017 this building was then demolished and the construction of a type school started in the spring. We were ready for the beginning of the semester, by September, with a very fast schedule. This lease is for ten years and includes an option for another five years. It also means that the developer will then be responsible for this indoor air, among other things. This guarantee was dared to be granted because all this was done directly at the factory, i.e. the foundations of the steel piled, including the sub-base partitions are wood and no concrete was used in the building. Mr President! However, this building is not temporary in any way, but could even be in use for decades. There is no shelter, but otherwise it is fully constructed in accordance with building regulations. This is the solution that I hope will be used in more and more municipalities, whether Espoo or Hyvinkää or Lohja or Saarijärvi, where these type schools have been used, but this is one that would bring this worst situation to an end, i.e. that buildings that have been completed in the 60s to 70s will begin to show symptoms at this stage. Even in Niiper’s case, EUR 400000 was spent on repairs before this decision was taken. I would therefore ask the Minister how the municipalities, the officials, the elected representatives in the municipalities in this consultation will in practice be taken into account. In this regard, I believe that there is still a general level of intervention, but I am sure that a good Minister will be able to give an answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u21	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen spoke in his speech about the fact that this programme of measures is also based on the fact that we need advice for our customers. I myself am part of that indoor air team, and we met with Minister Saariko earlier, and he accepted our greetings in connection with indoor illnesses and their treatment paths. In this context, it was pointed out that there are not enough high professorships and research in Finland. Now that Minister Tiilikainen and the Minister for Education are here, we could think about how we can get high-quality skills in Finland, too, so that it is not just in one hand, there is a THL researcher or a single doctor, and there would be a broad-based study, and perhaps it would be more trusted then. It occurred to these sufferers that, indeed, in order for them to receive good advice, there should be extensive knowledge and research in the back. It has emerged from these discussions that people are also being treated for stimulant treatment, and it is said that "seek a chance to expose yourself to it, and that might also help". That's just weird, isn't it? You can't think of things like this now. Then there is the kind of therapy that "if there is more to it than that you think you are sick". That is why we need to get the skills and diagnosis right there in the background. In our alternative budget for Finns, we have increased EUR 36 million to create indoor clinics like this and quickly bring people into good housing and rehabilitation. It is very important to take care of the building stock and its condition, but it is equally important, and even more important, that we get these people quickly into healthy facilities and rehabilitation, because they can no longer wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u22	Mr President! In other parts of the world, Finland is known for its clean nature and good air quality, but Finns themselves are more concerned with indoor air problems and their prevalence. As can be seen from this debate, these stories and examples of moisture and mold damage and indoor air problems in day-care centres, schools, hospitals and homes may be found in almost every Finnish municipality. It is estimated that as many as 800,000 Finns are exposed to bad indoor air every day, and this is also a sexually transmitted problem and phenomenon, since the majority of workers working in buildings with indoor air problems are women. I, too, very much welcome the fact that this debate is taking place in Parliament today, but, like Mr Pekonen, I am perhaps a little surprised that the actual programme of measures will not be published until a few weeks later. The Left Alliance today published its own programme of measures in the area of indoor air, where, among other things, we are presenting periodic penalty payments if the internal problems of jobs or schools are not addressed, renovation investments in municipalities and compensation for damages and emergency accommodation for those who have fallen ill in their homes. We also support the proposal to set up a clinical investigation unit in Turku from indoor air to treat the sick. I trust that Mr Tiilikainen and others will also be prepared to listen to the opposition's proposals in this work on the operational programme. We have set ourselves the goal and direction of Finland’s future knowledge of the world’s cleanest indoor air.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u23	Mr President! As the debate suggests, indoor air problems are commonplace in almost all Finnish municipalities, and it is really important that this issue has now also been tackled by the government. As many people have said, the problem is very wide and the individual measure does not work. In particular, the aim of this Government Programme of Action is to reduce and prevent indoor air problems in public buildings, but it is my wish that the Programme of Action should also provide a solution to all the quality of construction, which would solve more than one problem at the same time. Indoor air problems are not only problems with moisture and mould but also other indoor air problems, and especially in cases where the cause of the symptoms is not clear, there are often very difficult situations. That is why we also need more information on what type of building practices or materials are likely to cause symptoms. This is one of the reasons why I also very much welcome the unanimous proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to invest in the Environmental Health Unit. In addition, it is also important to invest in diagnostics. It is also important that we improve the flow of information further. We have a great deal of information and good practice in different municipalities, as we have already heard many different proposals here. Still, it seems that at municipal level, the same problems are still often struggled with. Furthermore, like many other representatives, I hope that the government will also look at the issues of responsibility. Hopefully, after this programme of measures, we will have more than just a decade of healthy facilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u24	Mr President! It is in itself a very good thing that we are now able to discuss this serious issue affecting so many people here in Parliament. Municipalities are investing far too little at the moment. We've got a lot of things we need to fix that we need to invest in. Above all, the facilities in social and health services, the facilities in education and the facilities in early childhood education are those in which people get sick, whether they are children who work there or adults who work there. We do not have the right to sicken workers or children, students, in schools and early childhood education. Mr Tiilikainen, the Social Democrats have proposed EUR 100 million in seed money for the introduction of these rehabilitation measures. The idea behind this is also that new approaches could be considered to combine different activities with the same properties, where support services could then be provided in the same premises, but the starting point would be to increase the activity of older people, for example, by dealing with young people, children and children in early childhood education on a daily basis — then food services and, for example, health services could be provided in the same context. Is there an idea here for the content of this operational programme to take this matter forward? Change operational structures in such a way as to achieve cost-effectiveness but also quality in such a way as to allow older people, young people, children and those in early childhood education to be in the same property. Could this be a carrot to reform the building stock that is currently in really bad oxygen?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u25	Once again, Mr Blomqvist, and then we will go to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u26	Värderade fru talman! Det är Jättebra att minister Tiilikainen har fört den rai frågan hit till plenum och att riksdagen har öjlighet att diskuera den rauta viktiga frågan och det stora problemmet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u27	Mr President! First of all, on this last question, what will be done with regard to the military: the Senate and the Defence Forces have a joint programme on how to deal with the military. There, of course, it is important to always repair one building at a time, not to have the entire garrison area renovated at a time. But then, first of all, on these matters on the part of the municipality, I would like to say that this debate is now quite high-quality. Health does not wait, and that is why every owner, whether a municipality or a state, must act as soon as there are moisture problems and start moving immediately. You can't think that we can't afford to do that now. Right away we need to communicate openly and start looking for replacement facilities and then think about what kind of model, life cycle model or how, will be funded. Now that the municipalities are also adopting their municipal strategies, I think in that way that, if we can still influence it, that is where this must be. Healthy facilities will be properly taken into account, and many municipalities have done good work in this regard. Here in the big cities we know that Espoo, Helsinki has made extensive ten-year programmes, a lot of money, but then, for example, the city of Pori has trained special building health experts in a good way, and I would hope that these good practices will spread well and quickly from one place to another. Then I will say, while the Minister: Mr Tiilikainen pointed out that a study on the municipal building stock is currently being carried out: it is indeed appropriate. The previous more extensive study was carried out in 2005 and this is linked to the fact that we in the government are preparing precisely this type of municipal farm program, i.e. efficient, healthy facilities, and it could be one of the possibilities of a demolition grant, i.e. an incentive system, with a demolition grant as an element, in order to also be allowed to
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u28	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u29	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. In 2012, when Parliament's Audit Committee explained this to a great extent, the startling and serious figures came to fruition, and of course each of us in the role of municipal decision-makers, and many of us as parents, have also had and are very concerned about everyday experiences on this issue. Every school day, the Parliamentary Audit Committee evaluated some 62,000 to 94,000 comprehensive school children and 12,000 to 18,000 upper secondary schools, and their teachers and other school staff were exposed to moisture damage or other indoor air problems every day. In this respect, the law is very clear, i.e. everyone has the right to a safe learning environment, and it also covers healthy facilities. This programme for a decade of healthy farms requires and requires us to be long-term, but also to be responsible and, on the other hand, to take preventive action. If problems are identified, they must be taken seriously, tackled, immediately taken action. There is a lot going on in municipalities at the moment, but I know that municipalities are in many respects also in big difficulties to cope with. Here, too, examples have been used of how much of the students can be in evasive spaces. At the same time, as they renew their properties, municipalities can also see the bright side of modernising and constructing adaptable, multi-purpose facilities according to the new curriculum and combining services to serve as many different purposes as possible, just as some speakers have already pointed out. I would like to say briefly, if the President will allow me, that good points and needs relating to research have been raised here and we will address them as well as the development of education. Much has already been done to update qualifications, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u30	Then Minister Saarikko's turn, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u31	Mr President! My own administration's approach to this issue is primarily related to situations where, unfortunately, we are dealing with symptoms that have already been identified or not diagnosed. I would like to summarise four aspects of this broad package which I would like to welcome and which I know in the preparation of this programme of measures, which we are considering. The most important thing for me is the whole set of care paths, the fact that, in cooperation with social welfare and health care, in future social welfare structures, operating models are such that the whole chain of self-care, guided self-care, basic health care for specialised politicians and rehabilitation would be a whole for people, including the transfer of information. The second element is the raising of the activities of the policlinics and rehabilitation polices that have been raised here in the debate. On this subject, we need separate rehabilitation clinics, which should serve not only those who suffer badly from indoor air but also other groups of patients with similar types and similar syndromes. So this work is just beginning. The third dimension is a very painful and difficult issue, and people who have fallen ill experience injustice. It relates to people's social security status, incapacity for work, illness and livelihood. I think it is important that as part of this broad social agenda, as part of a healthy environment and towards a country whose farms would be healthy to work for, enjoy themselves, it could also contribute to a study of social security issues and thereby improve the position of those suffering from the disease. The most recent and not least, I would like to highlight the development of communication skills related to health impacts as reality-based, open, interactive, concern-reducing and consistent between different professional groups, such as builders, public authorities, health care and other relevant actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u32	Let's keep this conversation going. Let us now move on to the one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u33	Mr President! The indoor air problem in public buildings is alarming. Even in my own municipality, indoor air problems have been encountered in primary schools, daycare centres and government buildings. Addressing health problems needs to be stepped up. The most common causes of moisture and mould damage in buildings have been identified and are design solutions with risks, deficiencies in the management of moisture on the work site, errors in the implementation of the work site, failures in maintenance and natural wear or damage to structures at the end of their life cycle. There is a need to identify risks and to address them in a holistic and systematic way. Insufficient resources have been allocated to address the indoor air problem in buildings. Action to improve the situation substantially has not been taken. There is a real need for a programme of measures for healthy farms.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u34	Madam President! Anyone who has to study, work or use services is too much to be a customer in mold and moisture damaged areas. As has been said here, we must all think that clean indoor air is a fundamental right for everyone. In these areas of humidity and mold, apart from the fact that different municipalities must be involved in these activities, I am calling in this debate for the government to be strongly involved in all this pain. Otherwise, simply these challenges will not succeed. It also, of course, requires a considerable amount of resources, including euros, in addition to these measures and operational programmes. Then, at the beginning of this year, the current government decided to put an end to this ARA compensation system, which made it unnecessary for the government — I dare say — to remove the health disadvantage and to help those affected by the home’s moisture and mold problems. Mr President! When there is a good mutual feeling here in the Chamber that everything possible is being done together on the public side, what financial resources are capable of, the question now arises as to how we will be able to support these individuals and families, who, in the worst case, have been labelled as hypochondriacs and whose economic situation through the home house is completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u35	Mr President! It is essential to build sustainable and healthy buildings and to take care of the symptomatic and ill. Yes, there are unreasonable stories about what people have been through. For example, a person who has worked for 34 years in a municipality is dismissed when there is no office space for him to work without serious symptoms. Minister Tiilikainen’s words were like music to the ears: treated regardless of whether there is a causal relationship from bad indoor air to the patient’s symptoms. Congressman Kiuru brought up the garrison. I would also like to raise the issue of police services, where indoor air problems have caused sick leave in a professional group which otherwise suffers from a lack of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u36	Mr President! There have been countless good proposals in this Chamber and in this debate, which are worth putting together on one deck. As Minister Tiilikainen said, the problem is enormous. The EUR 5 billion correction debt will not be corrected by any government on its own, but we even need a programme for decades. That is why we, the Greens, have also proposed EUR 100 million for the coming years in order to get this work started. But my own question has to do with the floors this time. Moisture damage affects two thirds of day-care centres, and one in four schools has an indoor air problem that hinders work, and as we know, the smaller the child, the closer he lives and plays on the floor. Yet, even in renovation construction, moisture is often left under the floors or floor materials are not safe. As the materials of toys are regulated so carefully, I would ask the Minister how we could promote such precise regulation in floor materials and their installation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u37	Madam President! The issue of indoor air is important and it is good that we are now trying to address it. The main problem is that of construction, where energy efficiency has already been over-focused. In terms of moisture and mold damage, it went wrong when someone wise came up with the idea of putting a plastic film in the structures. The necessary ventilation was incomplete or incomplete. Tar paper and chewing gum were replaced with plastic and glass wool. Natural gravity ventilation and ventilation have been replaced by mechanical ventilation and bottled construction in many building sites. Today, however, ventilation is better known. However, there are also problems with the scheduling of new construction and the lack of supervision. We don't have much time to dry up the buildings. Construction takes place at the mercy of the weather, and protection is nonexistent. In addition, municipalities have been forced to save on the maintenance and maintenance of buildings under economic pressure,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u38	Madam President! It is indeed a very commendable thing that the government has now brought this programme of measures here in the parliamentary debate, and I wish it every success. It is indeed an interesting question, as mentioned above, how is it possible that the world's cleanest outdoor air becomes the world's most unhealthy indoor air, as we often do in Finland. Now that we are talking about these indoor air problems, we have traditionally talked about mold, mold damage caused by moisture damage, which causes problems, but other factors that cause indoor air problems deserve just as much attention. One is these so-called VOCs, which are produced by various building errors, misuses or the use of the wrong chemicals, also in new buildings. I have come across situations where people who have previously been sick from the indoor air are unable to work or live in a completely new building, because of their very existence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u39	Mr President! Now we are on a very important issue, and these indoor air problems have already become such a new public illness for us. Yes, we decision-makers have also had our own responsibilities. Have we been active enough to respond to the kindlings that each of us has received anyway? It is now the last moments that we are going to make great efforts now to ensure that we are able to guarantee the clean indoor air of every Finnish. Yes, the central responsibility for this really lies with the decision-makers. But hopefully the government will also provide the keys and means for municipal decision-makers to ensure that every municipality has healthy buildings. This has become good proposals here. I very much hope that they will now be put into practice with this programme as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u40	Mr President! It is very good that these healthy spaces and indoor air problems are also being discussed here in Parliament, and I am very pleased that several ministers have been here to answer. It is true that mould problems in schools and kindergartens in particular are, of course, the responsibility of the municipalities, and we in Espoo, for example, have calculated that in the next ten years we will be spending about EUR 1 billion on various measures to tackle mold problems. But of course there are also these other issues, such as the Midwives ’ Hospital and other hospitals and the garrisons that have come up here. In other words, the problem is wide-ranging, so we have to consider what the state can do. Among other things, there has been talk here about sharing best practice and then funding, and I would like to ask the ministers: How do you intend to act in your own fields of activity, so that these best practices, such as the alliance model, the way in which they are built, and then in what way?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u41	Mr President! The scale and gravity of the problem is well known; action is now needed. Of course, we need to repair the problem buildings, and the municipalities need support, but we also need to prevent the emergence of new buildings with indoor air problems. The responsibility of the construction companies for the problems must be broadened, as the new houses also suffer from indoor air problems. It can't be like building a wolf and a second, but there's no responsibility. Mr President! Consideration must also be given to improving and improving building supervision: should more site-time inspections be carried out? Better maintenance and maintenance of buildings is also an essential issue. Should the janitors be returned to the schools — the person who really knows the condition of the property and the entire life cycle? Mr President! I would like to ask: is the government prepared to expand or even consider extending the responsibility of the builder for building defects and the indoor air problems of new buildings?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u42	Madam President! Often there is talk of mold schools and day-care centres. They receive attention, but they should also include home hospitals and health centres. Many social and health professionals suffer from unclassifiable indoor air at their workplace, which, according to a comprehensive study by the University of Turku, is more frequent than the rest of the population. The sickness of a nurse or a social worker is always not only a personal tragedy but also a social loss and cost. We should not be able to afford sick leave due to indoor air problems or, in the worst case, disability pensions. Among other things: Mr Tehy has called for a national programme to intervene, and now the emergency call is being answered. Thank you to the government for that. I would like to point out to the municipalities that, during this period of lack of medical staff and social staff, healthy indoor air conditions and the fact that the worker is allowed to work in a healthy atmosphere would be a good addition to that inducement for skilled workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u43	Madam President! We are facing a very important and difficult problem, and we are not talking about a less important issue than the health of children and young people and many people in the public sector, and that is a serious issue. To begin with, I would like to mention that I think that this previous audit committee has done a very ground-breaking job with its own home report. I might say that it raised a big awareness of this mold problem and its diversity, and that is why it is important that a large number of ministers are seen here, too, because this is a matter for so many sectors. All the same, the current Audit Committee has well maintained this emphasis, and I think it was very important that we have taken a stand now on this matter of responsibilities. All in all, there will certainly also be control issues, sanctions and issues like this when we look to the future. President! In this context, I would also like to underline the SDP's proposal for this 100 million seed money, and the Minister, A brick when you're next to him.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u44	Madam President! Healthy interiors are indeed the right of all Finns, and I have been wondering very gloomily lately about this state of construction in Finland. It is inconceivable that houses that are a few months old already have serious moisture damage and walls molding, even though the occupants have not yet got the furniture inside. I could compare it to a rubber shoe shop now, how many people would like to buy rubber shoes that are already leaking. It'll make a hell of a lot of noise if you get control of a product like that. Seriously, there's a chance to change a product like that. But then, when you look at these events, why do these mold houses, which are the darkest, big public buildings in this country when they are demolished, not carefully examined what is the root cause of what went wrong? There are plenty of universities in this country, Aalto University and Lappeenranta University, no matter how many experts in technology. And the fact that in this past year it has come to light that even concrete can no longer be cast, when a few bridges had to be demolished completely new and a few foundations from large buildings. When the concrete can't handle it, there's something very wrong with this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u45	Madam President! I built my own house in 2000. I made my house hanged and used as much organic linseed as possible to isolate it. Flax is a substance which, if moisture is available, also drys, unlike mineral wool. Before I started building, I spoke to the old well - known carpenters, and everyone gave me the same advice: Make your house a high stone base, make a good roof fall, and make it long enough for them to protect the walls. The terrain must be spent away from the house, not towards the house. Mr President! I believe that these same advice also applies to public construction. Our house has been inhabited for 17 years now, and at least so far there has not been the slightest indoor air problem. Many experienced builders abhor houses with flat roofs or no tipping. The buildings built into 'bottles' under the current energy regulations are also condemned by them. Many also ask why, following the introduction of increasingly stringent building regulations, buildings are worse than before, especially in the case of indoor air.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u46	Mr President! Of course, prevention is the most important thing in correcting indoor air problems, but in the current situation we must also take care of the sick. From the point of view of the sick worker, the situation is disproportionate because the legislation does not provide security if the indoor air symptoms require a change of job, but the actual occupational disease, such as asthma, has not been identified. These people are able to work otherwise, but because of exposure they are unable to work in unhealthy buildings. They are, so to speak, incapacitated at work. They would be helped by the so-called Job Change Support, which many trade unions have been proposing for many years now. Has the introduction of a change of job been considered in this operational programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u47	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for raising this very important issue, because it concerns almost all of us or people close to us. For example, when I was working in a municipality, every year for at least a week, I had a voice out — someone liked it — but now the person who has since come to work is sneezing all the time. How many of these days of absence, hidden cases of sick leave, are there problems in this area? Then there is the fact that healthy housing, healthy schools and jobs are a fundamental right, and we should now get the speeches to work. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have raised matters well, and I would particularly like to raise the issue of wood construction. There is never enough talk of wood construction, but we should just get this timber construction thing done.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u48	Mr President! In the '90s, I worked in large hospitals in Helsinki, and they had facilities where they wondered why the corners of the bathroom looked like they were, and then it was only later realized that there was mold there. This is a very wide-ranging problem and it is a great thing that the operational programme also takes a position on this. This is also a whole new problem, you might think so. This year, 25.1. Duodecim published Current Treatment Recommendations for patients with symptoms of moisture and mould damage. It is very important to know what the symptoms are, so that doctors can also interpret the patient correctly, and also to describe the current research and standardize the operating models and provide tools for the examination of a patient who is symptomatic of moisture damage. These are the cores of this proposal and very important issues. Tradition building and modern technology — how to combine these two things in order to avoid major problems,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u49	Mr President! There is indeed a need for a programme of measures, as has been said here jointly. There has also been reference to this study commissioned by Tehy, together with the University of Turku, which is, in fact, the largest and most comprehensive of such symptom surveys at national level, which has been carried out in health care units, and it has clearly shown that health care personnel are unwell. Indoor air problems involve a high need for research and treatment, as well as sick leave, and not only are these absenteeisms a human suffering for the people concerned, but also entail costs for employers and probably a reduction in work efficiency. And the medical staff is indeed showing considerably more symptoms than the rest of the population. The problem has been that these problems have been clearly underestimated. Now I hope that this will indeed be achieved. These things are certainly worth preventing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u50	Mr President! It is a great thing that the opposition also gives full support to the actions of the Sipilä Government and Minister Tiilikainen on this important issue. That is why it is important, because it is a decade programme and, as decision-makers, all parties and all politicians in practice are involved in this as a whole. It is good that action has now been taken rather than just talking and planning, and in this respect thank you to the government. After all, the government's actions relate to legislation and regulations, and good feedback has also been given to the Minister in the sense that measures have been taken at a practical level which will address this problem. Personally, I think it is important that these issues of responsibility are also clarified, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, said here, that this is an important issue, something must be done, because it cannot be the case that buildings that are a few years old or that have been repaired fall into the same problem. Finally, I would like to say that we would need a public building repair debt programme, as is the case in the infrastructure sector, which, by means of long-term action by the municipalities and the state, would be going to remedy this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u51	Mr President! The main problem with this programme is that it only concerns public construction. Why have housing and small - house construction, people’s homes, been excluded from this? The security of home house buyers should now be improved, not weakened, as has been the case during this reign. Renovation grants from the State Housing Fund to address the health disadvantage have been completely discontinued since the beginning of this year as part of the austerity measures. However, these grants were directed at families living in the most difficult circumstances, who no longer had any other way out of their mold trap. They helped to save many families back to normal life and prevent many cycles of exclusion and disease. The Minister spoke beautifully about advice, but the plight of those struggling with mold problems is also increasing by the end of the obligation to provide guidance and advice from the building supervision authority at the beginning of this year. Will you, Minister, restore this obligation to provide guidance and advice and these remedies, so that families struggling with home problems can at least receive advice and help to resolve their situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u52	Mr President! The reflection raised by Mr Hoskonen on learning about old buildings is actually the guiding principle that mistakes should be learned. And it is clear that a number of measures will be needed. First of all, we have a good division of management between various bodies, and our citizens often feel that no one is taking responsibility but is being bounced from one place to another. It was gratifying to hear speeches here saying that the municipality, for example, has the responsibility of day-care centres, schools and other public spaces owned by it. As municipal decision-makers, we can't get away with that responsibility. In the future, there should be a low threshold when indoor air problems occur. There must be clearly one place in contact with a citizen or a municipal citizen. In addition, each municipality should have an indoor air problem eradication programme describing the responsibilities and activities of the various actors. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u53	Mr President! As has been said here, the health costs of moisture and mould damage are closer to a thousand million. But there's something I'd like to ask you. How do the warmth and air conditioning of kindergartens and schools work if they are turned off on weekends and started on Monday night? Everyone understands that moisture comes in behind curtains, behind windows, behind batteries and cabinets. Moisture is a prerequisite for mould growth. You'll have time to grow mold in a couple of days. Everyone has noticed that when you process bread, for example, with moist hands, the bread will soon be molded on your fingers. Is it the case that when air - conditioning machines start to grind the air on Monday night, schoolchildren, teachers and other school staff come to the facilities where invisible spores float in the air? This is a problem in many municipalities. That this should be reported,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u54	Before Minister Tiilika, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u55	Mr President! I very much welcome this debate and I am glad, among other things, that a number of colleagues from several parties have raised the need to clarify responsibilities. You still hear a lot of people’s stories and you see, for example, that in construction sites heat insulation has been left in the rain, or in far too many construction sites wet concrete is coated. Such omissions, for example, should be clearly sanctioned. But I would also like to point out that many municipalities have already found solutions to this problem, and I think the example of Jyväskylä is encouraging. The members of Parliament's indoor air group discussed with representatives of Jyväskylä, who, for example, have started to demand a certain standard of quality for new buildings in accordance with the standard of sound construction, and I believe that this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u56	Mr Tiilikainen, the last speaker of this debate is five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u57	Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Members for their very diverse handling of the matter, for their expert contributions and for their lunches in the construction of this programme. In fact, this debate tells us why we need such a wide-ranging programme of measures: because the problem is so wide-ranging, it affects several different ministries and cannot be solved with one trick. Many representatives also raised the role of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee has already done an excellent job in the last term and it has continued to do so during this parliamentary term. That is precisely why we think that, when it comes to a long-term programme, this parliamentary dimension, monitoring and guidance would then continue to take place in Parliament through the Audit Committee. In fact, in the form of a summary of what the programme is trying to achieve: it seeks to ensure that people who have fallen ill receive appropriate care and that as few people as possible become ill in the future. That's what we're looking for. Of course, the way to do this is to repair the buildings that have caused the problems and to avoid making the same mistakes again in the future. The studies have found that about one third of indoor air problems are due to design errors, another third to the fact that someone has gone wrong during the construction period or there have been errors that are the cause of the problems, and roundly a third to lack maintenance. You, ladies and gentlemen, have put forward a number of amendments to all these points, and all of this needs to be looked at more closely. That's a lot of attention if you build a new one and you have problems right away. It is a serious matter, but mainly in these studies, however, problems arise when the building approaches the end of its life cycle. In the case of many of the buildings now in trouble, perhaps even the ones that have been demolished, it has been found that it is no wonder that the way in which they have been built according to the instructions of the time will lead to problems decades later. Now those guidelines have been changed, but it may of course be that after decades it will be stated why such guidelines have been issued at that time. Knowledge is evolving, and that is why research must also be maintained. The representatives of Heinäluoma and Ala-Nissilä started this question of responsibility. It is an important issue, and it is being considered how, by means of legislation, this issue of responsibility could be considered, as if the sanctions were in place. But responsibility is also that life cycle model. Congressman Sarkkinen asked me about returning the janitors. In fact, this very day I heard from that high - famed log school in Pudasjärvi that it was carried out with a life cycle model. The responsible body of the life cycle model has put people there all the time to work to see that maintenance and maintenance play, and if there is a problem, it will be addressed immediately. So it is very important that maintenance is taken seriously. Many here talked about the problems, such as weekend closed air conditioners and so on. The fitness survey and repair guide has been updated to municipalities last year. She also asked if anything else had been done. Moisture and mold problems were thus valid until the end of 2016, and since then this year the development of this new programme has started reasonably quickly on the road indicated by Parliament. These situational surveys systematically, just like that, and it is therefore good to carry out physical examinations before problems arise. This is one message for the cities. Take a look at the condition of your properties, do the surveys also for people in those buildings where there are no problems yet. This is the only way to find out the starting state, and then a regular fitness study forwards the picture of the development of real estate. However, one thing should be raised. Several representatives of the SDP reported that once the correction aid system to eliminate health damage has now been abolished, people cannot repair their homes. We have remedies, regardless of the cause of the problems, and I am sorry to say that I have to say this about the correction aid system in order to eliminate the health damage: your chairman, Antti Rinne, made one budget last year, and in that budget this item was put to zero. Sorry. For the rest, on this multi-million-dollar proposal for these grants: In principle, I understand the idea of encouraging municipalities, but unfortunately previous experiences also show that when we have had these grants,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u58	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u59	Mr President! The proposal extends the authorisation of foreign driving licences to drive in mainland Finland. In the future, you could drive a car in mainland Finland with a Chinese driving licence, for example, because driving licences issued by EU or EEA States or by States which have acceded to the Geneva and Vienna international road transport agreements would no longer be required from the driver. The condition for this approval of a driving licence is, among other things, that it has been issued in a country recognised by Finland. Persons moving to or temporarily staying in Finland would be entitled to drive with such a card for a maximum of one year from registration in the population register. This change would promote the mobility of tourists and the use of various tourist services requiring the right to drive, as well as the mobility and employment of migrants. With certain requirements such a driving licence can also be used to work in traffic and, for example, to drive a combination of more than 80 tonnes of vehicles. Controlling such a combination of vehicles requires more than just a piece of cardboard issued in remote lands, which is also called our driving licence. I believe that, at this point, it must be precise whether the requirements for the carriage of a combination of vehicles are met. According to the proposal, it is a condition for the approval of a driving licence to be granted in a State recognised by Finland. In many countries this famous piece of cardboard is paid: for example, a class B licence costs $500, the next category of driving rights is $200 more, and so on. According to the proposal, it is not estimated that driving more widely than is currently the case in Finland for the approval of foreign driving licences will undermine road safety. As a former and future traffic supervisor, I can tell you that you don't have a problem. If traffic rules, including traffic signs, are different in the country of origin than in Finland, they present challenges both to the driver and to other transport users. A good example of this is the different transport cultures in Russia and Finland. If we too, ladies and gentlemen, were given the opportunity to drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u60	Madam President! In fact, as Mr Kulmala said, this proposal proposes that the approval of foreign driving licences for driving in mainland Finland be extended, i.e. — more familiarly — from outside the EU and the EEA, tourists, among others, could drive here in Finland on 1 February 2018 along with the rest of us. It has been thought that this proposed change could lead to additional work on traffic control and on driving licences, and this additional work could result, for example, from the identification of the driving licence contained in the cards in the absence of a single driving licence form or due to the variety of category endorsements. And then, as Mr Kulmala said, the adoption of a wider number of foreign driving licences is not considered to be an issue that undermines road safety. But I believe that, when this goes from here to the Committee on Transport and Communications, we will certainly also be looking at this issue further there. What will this change promote and apply for? This would promote the mobility of people moving to and travelling here, the employment of immigrants and the use of various tourist services requiring the right to drive. I have given myself the impression, not only on the basis of contacts, but also on behalf of the representatives of the Lapland region, that especially the tourism of Lapland has been waiting for this amendment of the driving licence law for too long, and that is why this government proposal should now be made available during this coming winter season. Finally, Mr President, I am also aware that the transport of a combination of vehicles mentioned in this bill will certainly raise questions about possible abuses and possible road safety issues in some of us in the Committee on Transport and Communications. I dare say that these matters will certainly be brought to the attention of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u61	Mr President! Indeed, the approval of foreign driving licences in mainland Finland would be extended, and there are, of course, certain duubies here as to whether or not they are making cheap drivers in Finland who then run cheaply but who do not necessarily have that knowledge in these circumstances. I have been approached several times from the tourism sector in Lapland, and it has been said that so many tourists come from Asia and China, for example, that they would be happy to drive themselves here in Finland. In this respect, of course, I can understand this car card, but of course this is a road safety issue very far. On the other hand, I can tell you that when I had a group house in Spain, there was a lot of driving in Spain, so that no one came to me to tell me not to drive here. Well, this applies to people outside the EU, and I would not go into any discrimination on this issue, but of course there must also be a clear Latin letter with that licence and there must be no abuse. This will certainly raise a wide range of questions in the committee, both in terms of road safety and also in relation to this driver's question, as to how the carriage of lorries will be going in the future for these foreign drivers. On the other hand, we live in a free world in such a way that mobility should be as flexible as possible and, in this sense, we must take up those challenges in such a way that no abuses can occur and the issues of responsibility are in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u62	Madam President! Parliament has received a government proposal for a larger reform of the driving licence law and is currently in the Committee on Transport and Communications. Now this smaller reform of driving licence legislation is precisely aimed at enabling tourists from outside the EU and the EEA to drive a car in Finland, just as we do when we go abroad, to rent a car and then drive it under the conditions in which we visit the country in question. It is true that tourists, especially in Lapland, and tourism entrepreneurs expect this law to come into force as soon as possible during this tourist season, the winter tourism season, so that, for example, Chinese tourists come to Finland and do not go to Sweden and Norway to enjoy this Arctic region. It is important that when we provide the service, we train, guide, tell about winter conditions and our transport culture when foreigners come into our conditions and drive, because traffic safety above this law must go too. Well, as far as cabotage is concerned and the possibility of driving heavy goods vehicles is concerned, this law does not provide any key and opportunity for such a larger mode of transport. A licence is therefore still needed if heavy equipment is to be driven, with qualifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u63	Madam President! This amendment to the driving licence law is linked to the ongoing reform of the driving licence law, as has already been mentioned here. I consider this reform to be a sensible reform in that it is likely to streamline the treatment of the authorities. The granting of a period of this year for the recognition of driving licences from countries other than the EU and the EEA region and from countries which have not signed the Vienna Agreement on Transport will certainly help immigrants to find employment, but will certainly also support tourism when the demanding language requirement does not have to be met immediately. Even now, however, legislation allows so-called temporary driving licences for people from other countries. The suspected deterioration in road safety is therefore not one of the greatest things to be feared. These security issues will certainly be addressed at the stage of the committee's deliberations. And it should be noted that the government's proposal includes this requirement for professional qualifications, which is absolutely essential for safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u64	Mr President! Lapland's tourism has increased by 27 per cent in the beginning of the year. After all, it has increased elsewhere in Finland, but in Lapland the growth rates have been huge, for several years now, and it seems that this situation will only evolve in the future. This proposal supports one aspect of tourism, namely that people are better able to travel in a rented car, and also snowmobileing, which has been impossible for many groups of tourists because they have not been allowed to drive it on their own driving licence. Although this performance is one small piece of a larger entity. Lapland’s tourism is now an industry that needs to be given a great deal of attention in every sector. These opportunities require that we receive major investments and activities from the transport and communications sectors in developing air, rail and road connections. We've got to get some summer travel productized. We need to get more accommodation capacity, training and then the workforce, part-time, longer-term, and then we need to get the state, Metsähallitus, land use and ownership control issues in order. Among other things, we should have a strategy to develop Metsähallitus' operations as part of Lapland's tourism. So there's a lot of work to do. It is good that in this situation we have been able to react so quickly to this need for change. This legislative reform of driving licences is a bigger issue, and it would not have helped the needs of tourism in Lapland this year under any circumstances. Hopefully we can get other similar reforms done at this kind of speed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u65	Mr President! This government proposal as such must be supported, but when it states in the explanatory statement that 'it is not estimated that driving more widely than is currently the case here will undermine road safety', I do not agree with that. We need to think about three different factors: First of all, the growth of foreign tourists in Lapland, especially from Asia, is in severe windfalls. Good for you, but that means that there will be more seasonal travellers in the extreme conditions of Lapland, who are not accustomed to the cold, darkness, snow and ice roads, and then remember what these winter maintenance criteria are and how they will be monitored — or rather, how they will not be monitored — and in many cases the roads in Lapland, especially the lower-level roads, are in an unclassically poor condition. All you have to do is follow the news of these days from Highway 21, where by foreign equipment and drivers the road is always cut off. There is a need for education and guidance, and it is indeed the case that these tourists do not only want to ride cars but also to sleds. The budget for basic road maintenance must be set at a completely new level, and as the most urgent new investment, in relation to this tourism and this government proposal, it is absolutely essential that the Rovaniemi airport's accession to Nelostie, the intersection area, be restored immediately when this government proposal is implemented. And when you remember that when the Russian tourists, fortunately, came to Finland during the New Year’s seasons, they used to drive in the middle of the road when the roads in Russia were overexploited, and especially at that time there were surprisingly many accidents. This already shows how much a transport culture can vary from one country to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u66	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the driving licence law with such an early timetable must indeed be supported. There has been a debate here on the fact that tourism in Lapland is particularly pleased about this. That is probably the case, and Mr Mustajärvi has made a very commendable speech in that regard that he raised these security issues very well. The conditions in Lapland are challenging for foreigners, they are also challenging for us Finns, but especially from beyond For those who come to Lapland as a tourist, the conditions are there when they have never had to drive in winter conditions in their home country. That is why this aspect of road safety must be particularly important. I think it is also worth considering whether there could only be a little E-card in that area where you can drive, if you come from those so-called remote countries, because at least I see that there is hardly a truck driver now, there are bus drivers among tourists, and that is certainly not necessary. It could be like this with a smaller driver's license. Let us then consider this in the Committee on Transport and Communications. Finns are known world-wide as good drivers, but we will probably be born with this reasonably good driving skills just like this: we have four different seasons and get used to driving in the dark and slippery and summer. But the driving experience of people who come from a distance, like the tourists in Lapland, is just a so-called summer driving experience, and that is why this security aspect needs to be raised particularly well here. But the hopes of the tourism entrepreneurs in Lapland are fulfilled here, and that is good in this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u67	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications is dealing with a major reform of driving licence legislation, and this government proposal now under discussion is, in a way, part of that reform. Thank you, Mr Berner, and also to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, for bringing this part here separately for processing, and I hope that this will move forward quickly. I also hope that the expert hearing, when this goes to committee in due course, will bring up all these comments that have been made in the debate in this Chamber, by experts. Finland lives very much today also in tourism, and especially in Lapland tourism is growing strongly. The Government's proposal has been brought to the debate precisely because of the desire to safeguard tourism in Lapland. Of course, it is noteworthy in this proposal, as has already been pointed out in a number of speeches, that road safety needs to go ahead. Finland's conditions, especially winter conditions, must also be taken into account. The condition of the roads, which is always questionable — and there is much to improve in the condition of the roads — should also be taken into account. It is a fact that now that foreigners are allowed to drive here in Finland, there is also a real need for guidance and education. For example, a snowmobile in winter is not very easy to drive. I can say that myself, because I have been driving it for many years in the winter. It requires its own technology, and hopefully this awareness will be taken forward. I hope that the Committee on Transport and Communications will genuinely hear and listen to experts, but this is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u68	Madam President! This government proposal to accept the validity of driving licences outside the EEA and the EU is welcome and welcome. This will speed up the integration of immigrants into Finnish society and, above all, it must have been the driving force of the motion to facilitate the movement of occasional tourists travelling by car, and that is what this proposal is all about. I am sure that in committee attention should be paid to the security aspects. We do not want to endanger safety on our roads, but I could of course imagine that a person who is used to driving traffic jams in Delhi or Beijing will be able to carry a car on our crowded and crowded roads too. I don't think this is a serious threat. Of course, attention should also be paid to the fact that, then, in professional transport, the different qualifications are different, and there is no longer use of this temporary driving licence. As I recall, it is stated elsewhere in the law that a driving licence must then be converted into a Finnish driving licence within two years if the law requires these additional training, and therefore it is a temporary right to drive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u69	Mr President! Once again, thanks to the government for making sense, not at this time, but at least for streamlining the regulations. This amendment to the driving licence law involves in particular, as Mr Kopra said, tourism from outside the EU and the EEA, mainly from Asia, and the desire to make it easier for them to travel elsewhere than public transport. This is not, among other things, a button shop in Chinese tourism. For example, last year Chinese tourists left EUR 335 million in Finland through various services. For example, the rise in the second year of reading is nearly EUR 80 million. Yet, Mr President, even more could be done to attract Chinese tourists. For example, the widespread introduction of payment services known to China in Finland would certainly also increase the number of tourism for us. After all, we now only have unfortunately few shops where Chinese tourists, for example, have access to the payment services they are familiar with. That is why I would strongly encourage companies to introduce new payment service applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u70	Mr President! With regard to the amendment of Article 61 of the Driving Licence Act to this government proposal, it is generally understandable why it is here. That is precisely what it is intended to promote tourism, and I do not want to oppose it in any way either. But now there are such questions that, when it is said that Chinese tourists come here, do they necessarily need a driving licence for a combination of vehicles? I am not quite sure about that, but mostly tourists only rent those RVs. In other words, at this point one might wonder whether the ABE category driving licence would be sufficient, i.e. a motorcycle, a passenger car and a small E card would certainly be sufficient. We were talking about this gray economy and cabotage. Well, it's true that you need permits, of course, driver qualifications and so on, but you have to remember that we always have dishonest employers who may hire people who have that license. Then, of course, the worst: do we want a bad person with a truck card in mind to be able, with this change, to go and rent a truck and then carry out his worst goal? It's a little something I don't approve of. This is, of course, the worst horror scenario, and this is not a fight against terrorism, but, of course, something is possible here. The big question is also this road safety. Not all countries have educational systems similar to those in Finland or Finnish weather conditions. We now have to think very carefully about this proposal in committee and think about what this reform is going to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u71	Mr President! I understand the government's proposal in the form that it wants to serve tourists so that they can drive here. Many speakers have pointed out that the Far East is becoming tourists and they want to rent cars. And, as the representatives have said here, road safety is deteriorating. Many come from the Far East in such a way that they have never seen snow, and when you come among the reindeer and the plows are what they are, it’s just as much as that tourist comes to the skates for the first time. In the same way, it slips there and falls, but cars go into a ditch. Then there was talk of the integration of immigrants. We may have people coming from the south who have never driven before like a moped. And here, as Mr Kulmala said, they have a purchased card, and then they go into traffic, they drive 120 on the motorway, and these skills do not necessarily correspond to what is needed here. This government proposal is a little divisive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u72	Mr President! Indeed, in the future Finland should be allowed to drive with driving licences other than those issued in the EU and the EEA countries, and this tourism is a big issue. We have a lot of tourists coming to us also in the summer, not all of them necessarily coming in the winter, in slippery winter conditions. I'm wondering about this conversation. If I go to Canada or Australia, I can rent a car there and drive with a Finnish driving licence. Of course, this will indeed be the responsibility of those car rental companies that give the car. In particular, it must also have the opportunity to educate people about the traffic rules in Finland, or somehow it must also be known about it. Of course, winter conditions are challenging, but I believe that this is also of great importance for snowmobiles, that these tourists will then be able to drive them. As far as cabotage and other forms of trucking are concerned, that professional driving, those who are going to carry on the transport profession here, of course, are bound by the same traffic permit rules and other requirements, and of course it is not possible to give any looseman, but must be vigilant in that regard. But I have understood that, for tourists, this is mainly car traffic, and in that sense, of course, it would have to be seen openly. Of course, in the Committee on Transport and Tourism we will also be dealing with these duubies, what is involved here, but I know that this is extremely important for tourism in Lapland. These percentages have risen enormously again, and this is one of the attractiveness factors for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u73	Mr President! Good debate, good points have been raised here, which I am sure will also be discussed in committee and what will be discussed. As has been said, this has been done specifically in order to increase tourism and is decoupled from the larger entity in order to perhaps complete it already in this winter. The angle from which this has become more apparent is precisely this snowmobileing, driving, tourism in Lapland. The fact that larger RVs are already category C vehicles must also be taken into account for these categories of driving licences. For example, if you think that there are ever international, major motor sports events in KymiRing,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u76	Mr President! This reform of the driving licence law, which concerns citizens from outside the EU and the EEA, does, in my opinion, also offer small opportunities for some risks. But you have to remember that basic premise. Throughout the last few years, Finland has worked hard to increase tourism in the Far East and tourism in general in this country. We would then have tourists here and those much-needed tax revenues in this country, jobs for people and tax revenues for the state and municipalities. Now that this objective is being achieved quite well, just as Mr Alatalo well described in the speech we have just made — that is where there really is going to be a lot of people and there will be a lot of people — we must now be open enough to give it to the people who come here. I can't imagine a tourist from China knowingly going out to see if he can get himself killed by a car. Yes, I believe he will come here to enjoy a fine Finnish winter, tranquillity and quiet.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u79	Mr President! This has been a good debate, but I do think that this has given a rather strange tone in terms of driving skills from abroad. Of course, experience is important. But when this reform is really important to our tourism industry, to this whole society of ours, I believe that there is also reason to trust in people's own senses and in their own assessment of what their driving skills are. If some kind of need for such winter driving guidance is and is found in demand, then I think there will also be a supply on that side. And now that the committee is hearing about the various players, it is certainly good to hear about the car rental agencies and how this type of reform will affect, for example, insurance matters and these issues. I believe that professionals in this field will be able to assess these risks of driving.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u80	Mr President! Driving licences are also needed for motor vehicles that run on snow, called snowmobiles. It requires a Finnish driving licence to be used. Above all, the tourism operators in Lapland, who hope to be able to provide ancillary services, hope to do so, otherwise the situation will be illegal. I'm feeling a little suspicious right now. Once upon a time there are these foreigners who, for the first time, have grabbed a snowmobile from the horns, they have all survived, even though at times they look a little wild. But it's easier to move in the terrain. There is usually self-damage and no one else like road traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u81	Mr President! Just a few more words. This reform is particularly important for Finnish tourism and Finnish tourism, it diversifys and also enables the services of tourists here. In this debate, it has actually been mentioned in some speeches that this government proposal is to increase tourism. I personally do not see this so much as to increase tourism. I think there are a lot of people. Tourists from Asia do not come to Finland because they are allowed to drive with that card. Rather, when they come here, they get a more diverse offer of tourism here, they become more diverse here, they also get more places on their own initiative, and they also have the ability to offer more services to tourists. So I personally believe that this is more of a government proposal to do so. When this snowmobile driving has come up in discussions, I myself would say that there is a certain need for guidance. Then, when service providers rent those sleds to outsiders, I hope that it will pay particular attention to the use of the sled and road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u82	Mr President! The representative, Torniainen, raised a matter that has actually been overlooked, precisely that it is possible for tourists to get to know the province of Lapland on their own, for example. Now that this growth of Asian tourists has been so dramatic, as it has been in Lapland, it is already apparent that this flow of tourists begins to flow from Rovaniemi, the Rovasue region and tourist centers to more than smaller municipalities. Then it is important that those tourists who want to move on their own visit the genuine, deep countryside of Lapland can also do it on their own. As has been said, there is absolutely no functioning public transport in Lapland, and then this opportunity is important so that the most remote municipalities in Lapland can benefit more from this flow of tourists. But I would like to stress that this aspect of road safety is extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u83	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u84	Mr President! First of all, there must be a little disapproval of the government in that it is a budget law and this will only come to the debate on referrals to Parliament at this stage. The amendment of the Automotive Tax Act is a difficult proposal in that it makes it particularly difficult for taxi companies to operate and, by removing the car tax advantage, places taxis alongside, for example, eight-sealed buses in a competitively difficult situation. The reverse of this issue has been the fear of abuse of this tax advantage and it has been considered as negative business aid. Of course, this issue must be carefully taken into account in the Committee on Transport and Communications, but it is also important to take account of the aspects raised by taxis, and they do not support this claim, because more expensive insurance policies and registration requirements ensure that the licence does not circumvent the car tax. Of course, this car tax advantage could also be developed in full instead of what is now being proposed for taxis. But, as I said, the committee hearings have a decisive effect on the follow-up. Overall, the car tax advantage has had a positive impact on driving cars to remain modern, which has an impact on safety and the environment. Now, with the entry into force of the Transport Services Act, the range of taxis is most likely to expand, and there is a risk that older vehicles will become available, especially in rural municipalities. Control will be a problem, as this government proposal to liberalise the market will not
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u85	Mr President! This proposal therefore proposes to amend the car tax law, and the current reduction in car tax on taxis of EUR 4800 would be abolished. What's all this about? This is all about cancelling the number one part of the Government Act on Transport Services. The Act on Transport Services, which enters into force in July 2018, will change the taxi system very substantially. Authorisation quota, place of employment and maximum price regulation will be abolished. At the same time, the obligation to drive taxis will be lifted. Professional taxi services will remain subject to authorisation, but the individual licence will be converted into an individual licence and the conditions for obtaining it will be reduced, inter alia, by removing educational claims. That is all mentioned above, although the Social Democrats were fiercely opposed to it, but we are in this situation at the moment. The abolition of the number of taxi licences means that all eligible persons will be granted permits and there will be a significant increase in the number of taxi licences in the future. Partly for that reason, we are now in a situation where the current reduction in car tax is being radically altered in the case of taxis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u88	Mr President! This representative shall: In that regard, it is good to continue to say that this is exactly what the government said about no one's taxation, and this is unfortunately what is happening here: that my profession is the one that is being paid in stages. However, it should be borne in mind that, as early as last season, the car tax advantage for taxis was halved from EUR 9200 to this EUR 4,600, and this decision is a continuation of the decision on tax policy — so I do not believe that this is a law on transport services and conditions, because this is a tax policy and not a transport policy. And that is why this is a policy decision, a continuum for the action of the last government, but I do recognise that one professional group in Finland is now facing quite significant tax treatment. If all the rest of us were to be deprived on an annual basis of such a tax advantage of EUR 1600, as is the case with taxi drivers, then I believe that there would be a gallery full of people against this. This government proposal is also somewhat contradictory in its preamble, when it is mentioned here that 'in the event of free competition, it is not in principle justified to support a particular industry'. And now it is precisely the case that taxi cars are subject to taxation and, for example, buses and lorries are not cars subject to car tax. There is a clear competitive advantage here. In that sense, this proposal must be revised; this is not consistent from all sides. In the spring debate here in the Chamber, when it was announced that fair and equal conditions of competition are the starting point for the transport services of this law, I therefore hope that this proposal will also go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine whether this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u89	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal amends the car tax law and the current reduction in car tax of EUR 4800 would be abolished and would take place by July 2022. In fact, however, some of those cars are subject to car tax, such as one or more wheelchairs and school taxis. Now it seems that quite a few taxi companies are moving to bigger cars like this. Some clarifications would also be made on the tax advantage for motorhomes. After all, this tax credit issue was to be expected when this law on transport services was adopted and, indeed, when taxi competition opened up, it was found that there would probably be so many more entrepreneurs in the industry that not everyone could be given this benefit and then it would be cancelled out of everyone. Taxi laws have already moved forward, and indeed competition is opening up, licensing quotas are being abolished. And indeed, we must also take into account the aspects of the professional taxis in the future in this respect how this development is going. By the way, the car tax will be cheaper and, in the long term, it should be the use of cars that should be taxed, and also the money that would then go to finance the routes, as in that continent of Europe. There are huge levels of investment at the moment and the use is being paid for, and those transport projects are usually in the form of companies, which also provides money from, for example, the European Investment Bank. As far as taxis are concerned, taxation is now gradually increasing. After all, during the last government, the tax advantage for taxis was halved, but, of course, even when the Committee on Transport and Tourism makes its opinion, there must be an open eye here, and that view of the Constitutional Committee would perhaps also be necessary here to save this profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u90	Mr President! Indeed, on the basis of this draft statement by the Ministry of Finance, which has now changed in such a way that this tax will be phased out over four years and that, as Mr Alatalo mentioned, these unhindered taxis, including those fitted with school benches, would in future also be fully exempt from car tax at the 36-month death limit. Indeed, we now have a progressive reduction in car tax in this parliamentary term of 50 million per year. I myself have also sometimes proposed a reform of the car tax so as to move away from the taxation of purchases altogether, and I think that would be such a long-term situation. Our car fleet is old and it is bad for the environment. President! Indeed, this will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance, in our tax section, where I chair, and this will require, although the timetables are rather tight, good work. I hope that the Committee on Transport and Tourism will specifically look at the neutrality of this competition with regard to small taxis, which is an issue that inevitably arises because, as has been said here, there is no such tax on buses. That's a good deal for this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u91	Mr President! This amendment to the Automobile Tax Act, admittedly, is a slight increase in taxation for taxi entrepreneurs, but on the other hand we must recognise that Finland is such a country of high car taxation and yet we are, as a Member State of the European Union, moving towards a situation in which car taxation is also forced to be harmonised with the rest of Europe, it is in a long run like this. To the end, we cannot be the country of a ridiculously high car tax. This would probably be a small step in the spirit of the Transport Services Act towards a lower rate of car taxation. It is also worth noting here that, while efforts are being made to facilitate, reduce the tax burden on cars, this also leads to these climate objectives being managed at the same time. Of course, we always have to take care of those pain spots with small exceptions to the law, as is the case with this law, but when new cars enter the market, we have to remember that if, for example, a 20-year-old car goes out of service — or we do not have such old taxis, but still — much more climate-friendly equipment comes into the market, and that is always a good thing. And that is also a good thing for road safety, because an old car is never a safe alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u92	Mr President! Helsinki and a rural municipality are in a completely different position in this sector. In Helsinki, it is enough to be able to do taxi traffic full-time and profitable. When you go to a rural area where, at the moment, the activity has been subject to authorisation and the authority has defined how many entrepreneurs there are in the sector, there is a sort of guarantee of some kind of standard of living for an entrepreneur taxi driver. Now the market is changing in rural areas. I'm sure the car fleet isn't what it used to be. It does not reduce the demand that may be divided between more entrepreneurs who have gone to one, and then you can start to wonder what else they could do about school rides in the morning, in the afternoons. Then, too, the issue of the distribution of Posti, which is reflected in the fact that mail is no longer regularly distributed on five days as before, seems to have to be re-examined in rural areas, where mail distribution, janitorial services and grocery shopping or others are linked to this old taxi man’s job more and more, so that their standard of living and customer service levels are maintained so that the countryside does not shrink more and more rapidly from the population base, so that the rest of the services will ultimately disappear and the last one will turn off street lights.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u93	Mr President! The Government is gradually removing the EUR 4800 discount on car tax from taxis. As such, this decision is a very logical continuation of the taxi reform that has been approved in this Chamber despite opposition from the opposition. The Transport Services Act will be reformed and it will also be essential to make this decision. When I get to use or have to use a taxi every week on my trips home, there is a clear concern there — concern about the future, about what will happen from the beginning of next year when the reforms come into force. Many entrepreneurs are very uncertain about their own follow-up and even more uncertain as to whether there will be more people to continue and to join the industry. At the moment, many localities still have numerous taxi licenses to fill out. Obviously, with this decision, our taxi cars will become internationalized, that is, the fleet of cars will grow old, because taxis will no longer be replaced as frequently as they have been until now. We Greens strongly support the reform of business subsidies as such, but we would like them to be brought together first and then analysed in the order in which action should be taken. We also have a Group on Business Support to consider this issue, and it is very necessary, bearing in mind the huge amount of business subsidies, about 4 billion of which are direct subsidies and almost 3 billion tax subsidies, and also EU co-financed and EU agricultural policy subsidies and reduced VAT rates. However, we would like this Group on Business Support to be able to do its work in peace and to have a parliamentary decision on how to develop all kinds of business support, and in the long term. It is very important for companies to know what the future will look like even after the term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u94	Mr President! The law on transport services is based on the idea that there is a level playing field for all. Now that the tax on taxis is being increased, which I believe should be the news value of this debate, or at least the title, it is precisely because this issue and the competitive situation are not being balanced. I certainly hope that this issue will be examined in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from this point of view as well. Of course, this tax deduction can be justified by the reduction of taxi obligations, the abolition of on-call duty, the abolition of driving obligations, the liberalisation of price regulation. In that sense, the abolition of tax is correct. But when cars go to the car tax and buses, lorries, which, according to the law, will be future taxi cars, then the question of competition neutrality comes here, as Mr Ala-Nissilä has said. I therefore hope that the Tax Section will also draw attention to this issue. If a car tax were removed from all cars in Finland — which I hope is sometimes the future, and at this stage the eyes will now turn to the parliamentary working group that there is such a view in support of such an idea — then this idea will be a step in the right direction and looking to the future. Moreover, I would like to highlight the highly competent position of Mr Lehde on the future of taxis in the capital region and in rural areas. It had a good, well-founded view of what concerns are at present about this situation in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u95	Mr President! It is a good thing that Mr Ala-Nissilä, the representative of the Committee on Finance, has already spoken about changing car taxation in general as it is elsewhere in Europe. But indeed the concern about the future of taxi transport in rural areas is serious. We'll see what happens next year. I would like to thank Mrs Lehti for using such a speech from the centre very well, that she spoke specifically about what that concern is in rural areas. There will certainly be a demand in the taxi industry in Helsinki and there will be a supply here, but in rural areas, I believe, the equipment will then have to be changed to these very school taxis and wheelchair taxis, which will then be completely car-free. Mr Pakkanen has just spoken about this neutrality of competition and fair conditions of competition, and it is indeed a great difficulty that buses are tax-free. It's a tough thing for taxi companies to compete with. Mr Hoskonen also spoke wisely about reducing the car tax in general in terms of road safety and indeed emissions. This is one thing in which we must move forward. It can be said that since 2003, when I have been in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have been talking about this issue, but perhaps things have not progressed as fast as they should have been. But in any case, we too will be dealing very closely in the Committee on Transport and Tourism with this abolition of car tax on taxis, and indeed we must also consider the ways in which we can create a continuation of the lives and livelihoods of reliable Finnish good taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u96	Mr President! In fact, this also applies partly to the previous point, but also to this point, of course, when it came to the renewal of the driving licence and this is the issue of taxation and when it comes to the desirability, reliability and competence of taxi driving. We all have relatives and family members, we travel by taxis, we have school transports, and we certainly hope that there will be reliable and skilled drivers. It is therefore of paramount importance that these issues should not just go ahead with money, because there is a long way to go, however, with the driver, and it is of course important that he is skilled in the knowledge of the smoothest routes and the ability to act in an emergency. For example, I think of myself here sometimes at night when I have to take a taxi a little way to my car, which is Well, at the station in such a place that there is no lighting and nothing that these taxi drivers have taken me to the back of the sandfield and have not had the soul of the cross there and have waited for me to get to my car and get out of there. Then I think it is essential that he does not just leave me there, and I wonder about some small children, their transports, young people, elderly people. This is not just a question of money, it is a question of security. On that point, I would also like to say that I believe that the tax on use should be more invested than mere ownership. If we think about the power tax, if you do not drive much and you have a diesel car, it will be quite expensive. Not everyone can afford to change that car, even if they want to, has the money tight, and that power tax is very large. Many want to be environmentally friendly or want a safer car, but if there is no money, it just does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u97	Mr President! I cannot fail to address this issue of business support, which I am sure will be dealt with many more times. It is easy to compare the corporate tax revenue and the tax advantage or other benefit that is now being distributed by entities benefiting from corporate subsidies. In Finland, however, you could say that society is best paid not as a corporation tax, but as a tax on wages and salaries several times. Every business support in Finland has in due course gone through a pretty accurate sieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u100	Mr President! Mr Pakkanen mentioned this in his good speech on equal treatment between the various entrepreneurs and the various citizens, and it is quite certain that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will pay particular attention to whether this will allow us to act in a way that, in a way, different levels of taxation will be imposed on different players at the same time. Mere and I are sitting on the Constitutional Committee, and I believe that this issue will be dealt with very carefully there. After all, there have been these different rates before, this is not the first case in this world, but when we are going towards a world that is increasingly seeking to pay attention to the fact that this equality is being achieved, I believe that Mrs Pakkasen does not have to worry about this at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u101	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. Of course, this business aid issue is easy when this large sum is thrown — it sounds big, EUR 4.2 billion if both direct subsidies and tax reductions are calculated — but it is not as simple as that. When we start to look at the various forms of aid, just as Mr Lehti has rightly said, yes, it has already been carefully considered when they have been established, which is why it is necessary to give either a tax deduction, a tax relief or a direct subsidy. This is because Finland is dependent on the global market, and in order for our companies to have competitiveness, we need a form of support, and it will then bring dynamic effects again and generate tax returns for the state. If anyone here thinks it would be an easy task to cut back on business subsidies, talk about harmful and pointless corporate subsidies, it will not be easy. During the last term of the government, we did several exercises in the context of our efforts to find savings and adjustments. All I know is that the Excel list is long, but when we start analyzing the line from the line, then it won't be so easy anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u102	Mr President! On my part, I would like to comment to the extent that this has, of course, been a subsidy to the taxi side, a car tax relief has been obtained, but this has been a consideration. It has required an on-call duty on a taxi driver. He's had a regulated price on it. He's had to take care of his car in a certain way. A number of taxi drivers have been assigned the type of car they are allowed to drive, they must have filled the prescribed service equipment in relation to the invataks or alternative equipment. It has a lot of such obligations that have tied its taxi driver's hands pretty far. It is also this, then, that if you give up that car, then you have had to pay back that tax. And that's the daily price you pay for it. If you do not keep that car for three years and change it earlier, as is well planned in that government proposal, then you have had to pay back the taxes, that is, you have not received the 4,600 that has been granted for it. In that sense this has been such a consideration-based corporate subsidy if you could say so. But for taxi drivers this has indeed been a means-tested permit and has, of course, given the opportunity, but, on the other hand, it has obliged on-call and on-call duty and performance. When, in rural areas in particular, 24/7 emergency services have been a prerequisite, I say that quite a few professions, who will go to it, are probably not considered unreasonable for such small aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u103	Mr President! My speech on corporate taxes and subsidies and their implementation is certainly not based on the argument that they are easy to tick, but rather on the contrary. Everyone in this Chamber knows how large, difficult the whole is when we remember the scale and logistics and geography of Finland, and it is precisely because of its difficulty and because of the reliability of the future that it is important that all these aids should be decided jointly by Parliament. It would also have been the right place for this car tax deduction of taxis to have everyone’s reasons and consequences and effects on the same table. We must remember that we have some 300,000 companies in Finland and some 30,000 of them receive some form of business aid, either direct aid or some form of tax aid. It is a big job to go over it, but the work must nevertheless be done, because the only effective aid is aid for economic renewal, which makes companies develop their own know-how and introduce better production methods and tools, and it is absolutely certain that out of the 4 billion, not all money is currently geared towards this type of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u104	Mr President! This is indeed a certain continuum for half of this tax relief last season, which is, unfortunately, what the previous government did, and now this government is continuing to do. It seems that this has been planned for a long time by the officials of the Ministry of Finance there. This tax licence requirement, which is the law of transport services, is a matter which does not in itself force this, because there is also the fact that the vehicle on which this taxi traffic is carried must be registered in the professional register, so this in itself does not leave the lapas, so to speak, when such claims have been raised. I do not believe that there will be so many taxi drivers, because this licence requirement and the registration requirement will make it possible, for example, to have higher insurance, and I do not believe that anyone will voluntarily take out those insurances and that this car tax allowance will not be able to trick around. A taxi car is a tool for a taxi driver, a taxi driver, and if we now want to remove the tax deduction right from this means of work, is it now the case that we should also take off the various work clothes and other patterns? That sounds funny. I don't think this is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u105	Mr President! It has to be said to Mr Jalonen that this is not the reason for the policy of the previous government to abolish this tax deduction right, but it is because of the very controversial proposal made here by this government, which was approved here, and which, among other things, in opposition to the KD, is that the licence quotas and the driving and station obligations and the price regulation relating to these permits will be abolished, that is to say, the poor reform of the taxi law that was adopted in this house, and the consequence of that is that this tax relief will be abolished by drivers. I understand, of course, in the sense that when the licence quotas are removed and, in a way, they are no longer able to see which car is accompanied by the relief, then it is, as it were, a logical consequence of it, but that original bad legislation is the result of the amendment of the taxi law, and the KD voted against it here in the Chamber, and now this is the result. It is, of course, a good thing that there is something there, for example, about this accessibility and mobility, about orders, about these types of school taxis and so on, and it is good that, in these cases, this is the right state of affairs. But, indeed, it is not a question of continuing the policy of the previous government, but of correcting the poorly done reform of the taxi law.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u106	Mr President! Indeed, as I said, the law on transport services clearly states that a vehicle carrying out taxi services must be registered in a professional register. So this argument that this cannot be followed is wrong. True, it brings more challenges than before, but the claim that it cannot be controlled is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u107	One last comment, Mr Essayah, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u108	Yes, this argument is there in the Government's explanatory statement, which justifies this legislation, which is where it has left. In other words, when it is considered that the licence is no longer car-specific, then it is thought that it will no longer be followed on a car-by-car basis, and in that sense the government itself has falsely justified its own proposals if Mr Jalosen's argument is correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u109	Mr President! I wanted to take part in this business support and relief debate on how to support in what way, with tax incentives, tax increases and so on. There was a speech about the complexity and employment of business subsidies, but there are many networks, but there is one sector, namely the billion-dollar support for wind power, which does not work very much for people. There's no regular people working there, there's the windmill running, there's probably a guardian going, I'm not going to belittle it. But if I look, for example, at the report published by the National Audit Office this year, the support for wind power production is proving to be more expensive than anticipated and this support expenditure will increase by between EUR 2 and 3 billion from this year until 2030. This is very expensive support and certainly not very much employment. I would like to think about the fact that, at the beginning of next year, this parliamentary group should complete its work and that these company subsidies have been discussed for years now, and now I feel that they are always being transferred to different groups — I understand that it is a difficult matter, and that, in order to make some profit and some results there, we should then bring some presentations at the beginning of the year as soon as the work of the group is completed, and not just always put these hoped-for lists and update things and then tell the taxpayers how much money has been put in. We must also be able to actually cut them and not always transfer them to the forthcoming government term.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u110	At this point I would like to point out to the representatives that business subsidies are absolutely important, but now the debate on this point only relates to this issue of taxis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u111	Mr President! I agree, but the sea used the feed-in tariff on the wind power tariff as an example, which was foolishly designed. I know no more foolish than the other, which does not take any account of market price developments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u112	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u113	Mr President! This government proposal proposes an increase of EUR 75 to the guardian of the minor child in order to improve the livelihood of students who really care for the child. This proposal is very good, and it is very good that there is now a slight improvement in the livelihood of the families studying, which has long been needed, and that is thanks to the government. However, criticism has also been expressed. This, as with many other government proposals this season, lacks an assessment of the impact of children, it would have been a good thing to do. And despite the dependency rate, the overall level of student support for family students is falling, and this should not be forgotten here either. It would also be a good idea to assess whether the child-care allowance is tied to a maintenance obligation instead of custody, which would be a good idea in the future to assess in this respect. And it is regrettable that the legislative proposal which was included in the previous draft law extends the right to study aid and school travel allowance to secondary education after compulsory schooling has now been removed from this proposal — it is unfortunate that it is not involved. It is also important to restore the indexational orientation of study aid that this government abolished in the early part of the period. Then it is good, every time student support is discussed, to remember that this current student support law is very confusing and difficult to understand because of a number of different legal changes, and that would make it the best solution for the student to have an overall reform of the student support legislation that would then simplify and clarify our student support system. Of course, many previous governments have been doing this all the time, but it would be good if such an overall reform were brought at some point here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u114	Mr President! In order to improve the livelihood of students who care for a child, this proposal proposes, among other things, an increase of EUR 75 per guardian of a minor child receiving a study grant. Many study families are currently living below the poverty line. It is therefore a very good direction to support the establishment of a family during studies that comes into force at the beginning of the year. However, the amount of EUR 10 million proposed by the government for the increase in guardianships, which at individual level would then mean that this increase would be EUR 75 per month, is not sufficient. Family students need more support. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group therefore proposes an increase of EUR 75 on top of the Government's increase of EUR 75, which would amount to EUR 150 per month. This proposed increase would increase student aid expenditure by EUR 10 million but at the same time reduce housing support expenditure by EUR 1 million as well as income support expenditure by EUR 1 million and increase tax revenue by EUR 2 million, which would therefore increase government expenditure by EUR 6 million, but we also have income or similar savings in our alternative budget to cover this increase in expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u115	Mr President! This is presented as a EUR 75 increase for the guardian of a minor child is indeed a significant sum in many families with children, and it improves the situation of family students in a good way. Of course, it is only a small hand extension for families with children from the government. It is a pity that the government did not want to extend the period of child allowance, but in this respect, however, the proposal must now be supported that the families with children who are studying receive something. Other issues have also been raised in the expert hearings of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, which I shall now go over briefly. There was a study aid system for secondary students, which is currently not very uniform. Student financial aid for upper secondary school education is available for 9 months and vocational education for 10 months or longer if necessary. The committee therefore considers it important, as has been mentioned in this report, that student aid follows the actual time spent studying. In this respect, regulation must be made more precise and balanced in the future. In addition, the Government's proposal also included in the opinion proposals for clarification on school travel aid. As has already been mentioned here, they were subsequently withdrawn from the government proposal. However, as in the case of student support, some of this school travel support is also needed during the summer months, especially as the vocational education reform will soon enter into force and it will be possible to obtain student credits in the summer. As a third point, the committee has drawn attention to the fact that student funding for under 18 years of age is very limited. When 17-year-old secondary students can only receive general housing allowance if they have earned income or receive student financial aid, in the event of a thin network of educational institutions and in view of the fact that parents' incomes may prevent access to study allowance, these underage students may find themselves in a very difficult situation when they live independently. These things
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u116	Mr President! It's great that students are now noticed with small armrests. It is worth remembering that when the government has made strict and tough cuts, the students have been cut the most. Their student support cuts go beyond all others. It is great that the student allowance now comes with an increase of EUR 75, and at least as great is today's news that the government is going to withdraw the proposal from the standard for part-time housing, which would have cut the housing allowance for group rooms and, in itself, made the situation particularly difficult for students. If you think of this EUR 75 increase in the study grant also from the point of view that we Finns grow up painfully quickly and at the same time we have a painfully low number of children — and also when we are remarkably old, the average age of first-born mothers is close to 30 — and when we know all the thresholds, for example, relating to the employment of children, it is good that custody is now taken into account in the study grant. At the same time, I also pay tribute to the government for abolishing the lowest fees for day care, which is certainly an important hand-out. I would also like to see similar success for the group on parental leave and the related payments. It is absolutely essential that, when we reform parental leave, a more even distribution of payments is a starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u117	Mr President! Perhaps it is still appropriate to highlight the historical nature of this proposal. If and hopefully when we get it through this house now, then there are tens of years of waiting for a lot of parties. For decades it has been on the agenda of student organisations, and now it is finally going to be brought to the finish line, i.e. a guardian raise of EUR 75. For my party in the city centre, this has been on the show for at least 15 years. This has also been referred to in the reports of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and this recent Government statement, which we are discussing today, is the answer to the 2016 report of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which required the government to assess the need for a separation of custody. Now it has assessed, and fortunately in a very positive way — an historic, great moment. We'll get to the Nordic level. In many other Nordic countries, the special situation of family students has already been identified and recognised, and now it is recognised in Finland as well. Very fine performance, and we can all be proud of this. There are still a number of development needs, as the report shows. There, in other tastes, we highlight the situation of students under the age of 18 who move away from their own home to study. Their financial situation is often rather tight. If there are more children in the family, even though parents have a maintenance obligation for persons under 18 years of age, that equation may not be very easy. Perhaps there would be a move to dismantle the following shortcomings in the field of student support, but today there is one significant departure, and this is a very fine day for thousands of family students. We can be proud of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u118	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, the measures will be decided at the sole reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u119	Mr President! In accordance with protest 4, I propose that the following statement be adopted: 'The government requires that the tax reform be prepared in accordance with the model of the Swedish Parliamentary Group, where labour taxation is calculated and consumption taxation is increased moderately.'
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u120	Mr President! The government's tax policy has increased income disparities and cuts in benefits have weakened the position of the lowest-incomed. In next year's budget and in this legislative proposal, the government will continue to pursue this policy. The option for the Greens is fairer, as it equalises income inequalities and reduces poverty. In order for tax reductions to be directed more towards those in need, we propose a substantial increase in the basic reduction in municipal taxation in our alternative budget, which is in the interests of all the low-paid. It also benefits the unemployed and pensioners who do not benefit from tax reductions on earned income. At the same time, in our option, we propose an index check on the income tax scale and a slightly more moderate increase in the reduction in labour income. Mr President! On these grounds, I shall make proposals in accordance with Green Objection 2. Our objection includes proposals for legislative amendments and proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u121	Mr President! Fair taxation requires that each person participates in the payment of taxes according to his or her ability to pay and that taxation compensates for differences in income. There has already been a wider debate on this subject at first reading. That is why, briefly, I would like to say that statements 1 and 2 under protest 3 of the Left Alliance will be adopted in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u122	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u123	Honorable Speaker! As far as I am concerned, the proposal for a statement under protest 6 is accepted. This statement states that Parliament requires that the government immediately prepares a reduction in development aid in accordance with our development aid model. — I saw this briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u124	Mr President! Measure 23 proposes to halve the right to deduct the contribution of an employee's association and to completely abolish the right to deduct the contribution of an employer's association. I object to a proposal for a statement of objections 5: "The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken to halve the tax deductibility of contributions from employee organisations and to completely abolish the tax deductibility of contributions from employers' organisations from the beginning of 2018 in accordance with the Act TPA 23/2017."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u125	Mr President! I support Mr Vähämäki's proposal for a boost.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u126	Mr President! I support the statement made by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u127	Mr President! I will just say after Mr Yanar's speech, without making any further proposals, of course, as regards these claims that income differentials have increased, that, of course, if you look at the last parliamentary term, the freezing of indexes will have a very small impact on very low incomes. If the two euro goes away, it looks bad in percentages, it is true, it is not to be denied, but when you look at tax policy in general again, you look at the tax collections of the last parliamentary term, for example, what was cut out of the local government economy with a very violent hand, it certainly had a very severe effect on services and affected families with children and everything possible. The economic situation of the municipalities was catastrophic. Now we have come out of that cycle, and experience I know and we all know from experience that if we look at the impact of tax evasion on the economy in general, then if tax evasion starts to improve the operating conditions of the economy, then you can probably say that it goes pretty badly into the forest and it goes a long way, because it does not have very much good work done in this world, that taxes are being drastically tightened and then hope that the economy will go for growth. I can't remember if there ever was such a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u128	Mr President! Mr Yanar presented a proposal in line with the green alternative budget, protesting 2. I support the proposal made by Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u129	Mr President! We have already talked on several occasions about the government's tax policy as a whole and its structure supports this government's ideology that Finland is being discriminated against instead of seeing as social democrats that we should get everyone involved, and that is not what is happening. At first reading, we have tabled our own motion of censure, they have been put to the vote, and now, at this second reading, Mr President, I would first of all like to object to the motions for resolutions 1 to 8 in accordance with No 1. We see that, in that sense, the government makes some of these decisions, as it does historically, and that at the same time it manages to disparate Finnish society and then weaken public finances. In the past, we have been very critical of the fact that many low-income people — pensioners, families with children, the unemployed — have been cut off, but at the same time the government has had a great deal of tax cuts for the most wealthy people, and that is simply not right. That is why we would intervene in this development with these statements and make proposals for a fairer distribution of income. One important thing that will now be possible for the government parties is that we are proposing, among other things, that the taxation of families with children should not be tightened, that is to say, that this abolition of the child allowance should be abolished, and I would like to see the government now have the heart to withdraw. After all, the government parties wisely considered, already in connection with the property tax, that at the last minute they cancelled this compulsion, which we strongly criticised as raising the cost of housing. Now this tax evasion of families with children should be reversed. If this is not done, then there is no point in talking about the ministerial box, as has been said many times, that the taxation of any wage earner is not being tightened — it is being tightened up by families with children. It is a fact, it is a fact, and if you want to be word-long, then, of course, this tax evasion of families with children would be cancelled. In addition to the fact that we have this issue of child deduction in our statements, all in all, when we have an employee and a pensioner, a low- and medium-income person who wins the government's proposal, instead of proposing that taxes should be increased by, among other things, putting a tax solution to these investment insurance policies, insurance cover, tackling aggressive tax planning by a couple of different means — or indeed, we have a number of means on the list, Mrs Harakka has done a good job here and has published such a programme. Well, then, of course, we suggest that the government withdraws these apothecary deductions which we strongly criticise and the reduction in forest gifts, which could be withdrawn. Similarly, on the second occasion, we have proposed that the reduction in the tax burden on millions of inheritances should be abolished. In these statements, we also propose a moderate increase in the capital tax so that we really can have a fairer position on this common burden, and so do we, as we have already said before, put forward an idea that the household allowance system could be developed in such a way that it would also help to extend to blocks of flats and terraced houses, i.e. it would be very wise. It is a good thing that, at the moment, large renovations in small houses are allowed to make a household allowance, but it is not quite right that, at the same time as these large plumbing renovations, façade renovations or others that require joint effort, there is no such system. I know. I've been studying that. For example, the Real Estate Union has completely prepared models for how this could also be implemented in the tax field. When it is often said that it is so difficult to carry it out, many experts have looked at the ready - made models. President! I wanted to come to this because I will, however, open up the content of these statements, which the SDP makes in these statements from 1 to 8.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u130	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag understöder ledamot Rehn-Kivis förslag.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u131	Mr President! Today we have an important point of view on how to change government policy. We believe that growth belongs to everyone, and that is why we have raised our own objections to this government base. Therefore, at this stage, I am already taking advantage of this opportunity to support the amendments tabled by Mr Viitane, which have been listed in this objection 1. So, as Mrs Viitanen has just done, I would like to make a point of saying that we should act in accordance with protest 1. In practice, therefore, this statement of support is based on the fact that we are acting differently from the government in tax policy. In this respect, we would make reductions in a different way from that of the government: we would not remove any reduction in children at all, we would cancel the reduction in entrepreneurship and we would make more solidarity at the top of income tax, we would increase capital income tax and we would change the taxation of dividends in the way proposed by the Ministry of Finance's own working group. In addition, it is good to say that we would also acquire new funding and, in that regard, we would act as the evaluation council has suggested to the government, namely to ensure that revenue can also be generated, and in this respect I would particularly like to highlight the issue of the tax on investment insurance. We are still presenting a very moderate model in this context, but there are also many ways in which we would address the issue of support for small entrepreneurship, for example by raising the threshold for VAT obligations and other initial measures, such as:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u132	Mr President! When you listen to those demarinations at this point in the daily order of things, you can't help but think of such a strange theory that apparently the demarins do more good in the opposition than they did in the government for four years. It's a strange phenomenon like this that my brain doesn't really want to understand. I was looking at the Government report No. 4 of this year on the state of central government finances, and from there when I looked at these public finances figures from the last parliamentary term, they were so terrible that these thinning hair almost got up in the middle of reading, so I'm just wondering about your point of view. That alternative budget of yours was empty, based mainly on wild assumptions that there will be huge revenues, we will take the money from the Bank of Finland, and we will go to Sitra to catch the money for the anniversary of independence. That's where the good brother is growing and all the economy is developing, but I'm afraid it's going to be something else. However, I would now like to see such a little realism, because it is the only way in the longer run to keep one's own economy. I've tried to follow it myself, and I'm hoping there'll be more supporters in this group.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u133	Mr President! It is a good thing that Mrs Hoskonen is here to represent a line which unfortunately does not exist. I would ask you to look at the measures that this government has actually taken, because the fact is, as Mr Viitanen has just said, that during the last term of the government a very similar policy has been pursued as the Social Democrats are now proposing. In practice, the economy would be balanced in such a way that, in reality, people would also be left with the fruit of growth when the time came. In other words, during the last term of government, in the last government, when the deciles measure the income, all the money was spent on deciles 1 to 6 plus measures, and care was taken to ensure that the deciles 6 to 10 did not produce positive revenue, because those who could afford contributed to the balance of the economy of society, according to their assets. This government is doing the opposite, and that is the problem, Mr Hoskonen. You are doing precisely that the policy of the government is a negative sign for the most low-income Finns, even the middle-income Finns. You will make sure that between 6 and 10 deciles have the most income available, and this is wrong at a time like this, and Mrs Viitanen has already called for this. Yes, we would, but also in such a way that income and wealth differences do not increase, but our Gini coefficient is 0.54 when the meter of this government is slightly negative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u134	Mr President! While I very much appreciate the fact that Mr Hoskonen, as the only representative of the government party, is able to defend the government's current policy here, on the other hand, I would like Mr Hoskonen to think once again with the same heart and begin to defend this embryoic line. I would believe that quite a few in that downtown field would wish such an embryo spirit were stronger than today. That was shown by last day’s news coverage of the views of the center field. You should listen to that, Mr Hoskonen. That is what embryoism is needed today. Here's a fact, even the Prime Minister. Sipilä himself has said that this draft budget discriminates, increases inequality, and that is quite a serious matter overall. Rather than, of course, quite rightly, it is your duty to criticise the opposition's alternative, as we criticise the government's alternative, I would also like you to focus on the fact that even if you could talk to your own government partners, that it would be a bit of a place for this embryonism in this very co-operative economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u135	Mr President! Indeed, the embryo line I have always defended and will continue in my life, and I think I am not a good expert but a reasonable expert on that line — even though Mr Viitanen compared it. But I will not go further than that, just to say that when you look at these economic figures from the last parliamentary term — for example, 100,000 more unemployed people, public finances were cut off — when everything is added together, government debt, tax evasion, sales of state assets, cuts in local government finances, the size was EUR 38 billion over four years, about EUR 9 billion per year. We were in a situation where unemployment had grown to its full limits and the state situation was such that in the very near future, if it had not really been for a change in economic policy in this country, we would have been in a situation where, after the rating agencies' routing, the interest rates on sovereign debt would have gone up sharply, and every percent would have known a billion out of the state budget. Once upon a time, Finland has experience in this situation, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that no one wants to get into such a situation even in their worst nightmares. If President Pekkarinen could speak on this occasion, he could give a brief presentation to all of us, but we understand his valuable role in chairing that sitting with dignity. Nevertheless, I hope, my fellow Member, Mrs Viitanen, that you will recognise the facts, because that is the only way in which we can move forward in our own finances and in the maintenance of the state economy or any other economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u136	Mr President! However, I welcome the fact that this debate is taking place. First of all, I would like to start with the fact that where the last term of government was actually levelled out, also on the part of the local economy, the economy was balanced from education, which was painful. At the time, it was decided, for example, that the economy will no longer be adapted to education, but this government has decided that these promises were in vain and that the economy will be adapted to education. In this respect, I would not turn to the past very much, but would rather look to the future, and I think that the big thing is whether Finland will be okay or not. We are now proposing, in connection with this matter, that both revenue and expenditure be examined, and today we are dealing with revenue. After all, the government does not make a proper contribution to these revenues, and it is also pointed out to the government's own scientific council, which assesses economic policy, that an increase in revenue should have been made. I would like to stress this because there is no improvement in the state of public finances — although you here, Mrs Hoskonen, are speaking differently. Sipilä's idea, result or out, Finland will have to be resolved in 2018. In 2016, these rather severe savings, which the government made, led to a real reduction in the structural government deficit, but after that there was a risk of division, and you made EUR 2 billion go to different types of government interest groups and important projects as a tax relief. And now we are in a situation where, in fact, the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact will be exceeded in 2018, even if account is taken of the flexibility of the Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u137	Mr President! Much has been said and mentioned along the way. When Mr Hoskonen's statements were brought up by Mr Pekkarinen, whom I now appreciate, I remember that some years ago he was also quite wise to say that the good principle is that the good people are also included in the recession. I also remember whether, last season, the centre line was this robinhood tax, that is, that people with low and medium incomes will be released easier, but those with good incomes will then be burdened with a little harder, if that is what you can say. Now, the problem is that when you make a lot of cuts to the most low-income ones, so they are involved in the recession — well, whatever it is today, adjustment rates — then at the same time, these tax cuts, reliefs, will be enough for the most wealthy. There are millions of them, there are millions of them for the most well-off, for the pharmacists, and we have followed this development with concern. That is why we have made these choices of our own, because we do not think that the robinhood idea is going to happen, but rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u138	Mr President! I would like to point out to Mrs Viitanen that during the last parliamentary term you reduced the tax on capital.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u141	Mr President! It is a matter of recognising the facts when we ask whether Finland is going to be all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u144	Mr President! The SDP option specifically supports small entrepreneurs, for example, by allowing them to receive a tax deduction when hiring the first employee. In addition, we are proposing that the VAT threshold should be raised. These are exactly what would help that small entrepreneurship. The problem is that this apothecary reduction is of particular benefit to the majority of entrepreneurs in the largest number of millions who belong to the two highest income categories. It is the structural difference in how we would support companies, between the SDP and the government. For the sake of certainty, it was in the last period that such solidarity tax solutions, tax elements, were made. A solidarity tax was introduced, capital taxes were increased, and labour market support and basic daily allowance were increased by EUR 100. As a result of such value choices, it became clear that income differentials narrowed during the last period, despite a very difficult economic period. On the contrary, the income gap is increasing with these solutions. I do not think this is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u145	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here on economic policy, bearing in mind, of course, that the perspectives are different, but democracy is, of course, part of democracy. It seems that the very difficult economic situation at the beginning of this parliamentary term has now finally turned for the better. Quite rightly, the tax reduction line at the beginning of the parliamentary term has been close to the right one, especially with regard to income tax. Statistics show that employment trends are favourable now and, according to recent statistics, unemployment has fallen by as much as 50,000 people a year. That's very much. Long - term unemployment, too, has finally fallen to less than 100,000 persons, I think it was about 95,000 — for the first time in a long time less than 100,000. However, the government still has a large amount of work to do, so that the rest of the unemployed can get a job somewhere. This is certainly not a direct task for the government, but the government's policy must ensure that companies are competitive and thus create jobs, especially for the private sector. We Finns in Finland would have directed more reductions in income tax on low- and middle-income employees and pensioners than the government. Unfortunately, these proposals fell here at first reading of this law. Mr President! I would like to comment briefly on the fact that Mr Vartiainen's comment in the interview with Helsingin Sanomat the other week was rather such that only about 40 000 of the current 270,000 unemployed would be able to find employment. This representative However, I find it quite astonishing that unemployment has already fallen by tens of thousands over the year and is likely to continue to fall. Finnish unemployed people are willing to work, and if, for example, there are shortcomings in their skills, they should be helped by means of targeted training, among other things. I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u146	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u147	Mr President! This bill contains two points: a reduction in the ceiling and changes in unemployment insurance contributions under the kiky agreement. We accept the reduction in the ceiling, but we do not accept the transfer of payments under the Kiki agreement from employers to workers. The Left Alliance is not in favour of this unfair Kiki agreement at this stage either. That is why I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u148	Mr President! I support Mr Pekonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u149	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u150	Mr President! The new name law is a step for the better. The law speeds up and clarifies the processing of name-related matters, such as the possibility of moving applications for names to electronic processing. In the future, the person may have four first names instead of three. Different combinations of two surnames are also possible in a new way. For example, the whole family can take the same combination of two surnames. The proposal will also improve the consideration of gender diversity, although it will continue to be the main rule in terms of names, but it will be easier to change the name. The first name established for the second sex may be accepted for the opposite sex, first of all when those first names have been entered in the Population Information System for at least five surviving persons. In such cases, there is no need to invoke another exception criterion or to present a further explanation, thus facilitating the possibility of introducing an established name for the other sex. The practice of applying the law also changes in such a way that there is another special reason for derogating from the sexual link of the first name, for example, when a person, based on his or her gender identity, wishes to have an established name for the other sex. The application of this provision is not linked to the gender strengthening process, but can also be applied in other cases related to gender identity. The determining factor in the application of the derogation criterion is only the applicant’s own experience of gender identity in a reliable way. This requires significantly less explanation of a person's gender identity. This is particularly important for transhumans. It should not be required that a person be in a sex change process, but that he may take the name that he feels is his and declare it to be his or her own identity. This change is important for human rights. Everyone has a right to their own name, which they feel is right. In future, it is essential that the law be applied in the way the Legal Affairs Committee has intended in its report and as is also referred to in the Government's explanatory statement, and the Ministry of Justice should therefore provide clear guidance on this to the Local Register Offices. The committee has stated in its report: ‘The committee considers that the proposed exemption criteria are appropriate and sufficient to provide an appropriate basis forexemption from the main Among other things, they enable a person’s first name to consist of an established name for both sexes or for one or both sexes, an unestablished name for either sex or a combination of them. For example, it is possible to give the above-mentioned combination of names to an intergender child if it is considered to be in the best interests of the child.’ The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights examined the best interests of the child in its report. A person aged 15 or over may decide his/her own name in full independence, and the name of a person aged 12 or over cannot be changed contrary to his/her written consent to the change. Nor can the name of a minor be changed contrary to the will of a child 12 years younger than his or her age if he or she is so developed that his or her will can be given consideration. The name is an important part of a person’s identity, and also a small child understands the meaning of the name.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u151	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-28-ps-125.u152	Mr President! This amendment of the law extends the scope of the exemption from tax on transfers of funds related to changes in the form of an enterprise to situations in which a trader, a professional or an agricultural and forestry operator transfers assets to a continuing limited liability company. In the meantime, this freedom of transfer of funds has only applied to entities, and natural persons have therefore been excluded from the scope of the regulation. This has therefore been the case even if it was a change in the tax-free form of activity approved for income tax purposes. This change, therefore, is very welcome and will therefore harmonise the procedure and facilitate the choice of appropriate forms of enterprise. This is a very good change that has been needed for a long time and it is extremely good that it is finally being completed.
