ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 20 June 2017. The conversation is with Satu Taavitsainen Katja The proposal, supported by trout, to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Defence, on PuVM 4/2017 vp, on the basis of the opinion on the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Defence, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. The debate on this subject will therefore take place until 4 p.m., i.e. for 2 hours. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 4 p.m., we shall move on to the next item on the agenda, that is, the fourth item. Let's get this conversation started. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Kanerva. — I would ask for other discussions to be moved quickly outside the Chamber, and we should focus here on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u3	Mr President! Finland is a stable and safe country, but of course on condition that we take care of it ourselves. We can't follow our own game from the stands, just by being observers. We need a responsible view of our changing security environment and a common vision, a common understanding of how to act, which is what we need to do. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u6	We shall now hear the speeches from Minister Niinistö, Minister Soin, then from Mr Mustajärvi, Mr Arhinmäki and then from the debate. Minister Niinistö, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u7	Mr President! The Committee on Defence has produced a very thorough report on the Government's defence report. Almost 100 experts have been consulted in the preparation of the Committee on Defence. Their opinions have also been adopted by the Committee on Finance, Foreign Affairs and Administration. In addition, the Parliamentary Monitoring Group has been involved throughout the process in the preparation of the report. It is good that Parliament has so thoroughly dealt with the first defence report since then. The main starting point of the report is that Finland's defence capability must meet the requirements of a changing security environment. The objective requires sufficient material performance, vigilance in identifying changes and, where necessary, ability to act quickly. Strategic performance projects, capacity building, legislative development and international cooperation are now implementing these objectives of the report. The Committee on Defence draws attention to a number of points in the report which I would like to comment on next. Firstly, the HX project, which replaces the ageing Hornet fighters, is an exceptionally important project in terms of both the performance of our defence and the budgetary power of Parliament. The Finnish Defence Administration regularly informs Parliament of the progress of the HX project at all times and when necessary. Secondly, the committee has drawn its attention to a process in which internal and external security threats are mixed together. New types of threats, the concept of overall security and the resilience of society to crisis will be taken into account, as proposed by the committee, when the Security Committee updates the security strategy for society in November. Thirdly, the committee proposes the establishment of a centre for the coordination of cybersecurity in the Prime Minister's Office. I would see the need to carry out a more in-depth assessment of the activities and development of the co-ordinators working in the overall security field. It should take into account changes in the security environment, legislative developments and new security actors in the regulatory field. Fourthly, the committee also proposes that any additional requirements of the Emergency Response Act be clarified. Concrete changes are mainly related to the definition of exceptional circumstances and the threshold for the introduction of the Emergency Act and the powers of the authorities. The definition of emergency conditions in the Emergency Act should take better account of the so-called hybrid threats. Social and regional reform should also bring reform needs. As Minister of Defence, I have taken the matter forward in our own administrative field, but the Ministry of Justice is responsible for preparing the preparedness law, from which we are waiting for action to be taken. Mr President! Legislative work on hybrid threats should also be strongly promoted through the revision of legislation on dual nationality from a security point of view. The Ministry of Defence and the Interior is ready to launch a legislative consultation in the near future. Improving the overall security of the state in the transfer of immovable property, i.e. in the mouth of the people in the case of foreign land trade, also requires the development of legislation. The security aspect should be taken more into account when it comes to endangering the essential functions of society and important security interests. At the initiative of the Ministry of Defence, the Government has set up a project to prepare proposals for the necessary legislative changes. The Prime Minister's Office should now speed up the start of the project. The committee is rightly concerned about the level of equipment of the Army forces in particular. The 2030s, in particular, are challenging in the long-term development of the army. It is to be hoped that then, too, we will have as much a parliament that understands the matter of defence as we have at the moment. Raising the military force to 280,000 soldiers also affects the need for refresher exercises. They have been increased with determination, but there is a need for more. However, there are limits to the current staff. One dimension must be the further development of voluntary defence. Voluntary training can improve the skills of the war-time forces in a cost-effective way. With regard to the previous point, the committee has drawn attention to a point which I myself have drawn attention to during my many visits to the Defence Forces' offices throughout the country. The ability of the Defence Forces’ personnel to cope is at the limit — due to the staff cuts carried out in the context of the Defence Forces Reform, the increased tasks and crisis management operations required by the change in the security environment. The Defence Forces closely monitor the development of well-being at work and take the necessary measures to maintain the personnel. One way to overcome the shortage of trainers is to hire contract soldiers with some additional resources. Finally, because of the lack of time, I do not have all the time to deal with this, but I hope that we will be able to return to it, the issue of military service, and we will try to develop the psychosocial support of the garrison. For example, the aim is to secure, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the so-called Time-Additional Action, which provides support measures to prevent the marginalisation of young men. It makes it possible to provide active support for young men in their invitations [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u8	Minister Soini, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u9	Madam President! It is important that Parliament has dealt extensively with the report and submitted a detailed report on it. Military activity and military tensions in the Baltic Sea region have increased. The change will continue for a long time, and the impact on Finland can be significant. Taking care of your own national defence capability is a key element in providing security. The report and the committee's report reveal the various questions relating to the Defence Forces, which increase security. At present, Finland is not facing an immediate military threat. However, provision must be made for military force against or threatened by Finland. As a member of the EU, Finland could not be an outsider if security was threatened in its neighbourhood or elsewhere in Europe. The report rightly stresses the need to increase our expertise on cybersecurity and hybrid threats. In this context, the importance of resilience is also emphasised. Work is carried out at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example on hybrid and information impact and on a wider scale. For example, an update of the security strategy for society is under way. I would like to emphasise the need to see crisis management more widely, even more widely than is seen in the report. External conflicts and threats are now reflected in our internal security in an exceptional way. Crisis management combines national interests and efforts to build a fairer world. Bilateral defence cooperation with Sweden is key to us. This will be supported by close cooperation on foreign and security policy. Close defence cooperation with the United States will continue, and further efforts will be made to strengthen it. Finland is determined to promote the development of a common EU security and defence policy and defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u12	Mr President! Finland's foreign and security policy and defence policy are clear: general military service, defence of the country as a whole and military non-alignment. These guidelines are strongly supported by Finns, including that military non-alignment. The pursuit of unity in big things is important, but a forced consensus is not a real democracy. We have tabled an objection to the report on defence. I would therefore like to make four objections acceptable. We expect that cooperation between Finland and Sweden must not lead to the abolition of military non-alignment. However, we support the development of industrial cooperation and the strengthening of the industrial base in relation to strategic performance projects. We question the number of multi-functional fighters ordered under the HX project and the total amount of procurement. We are opposed to the militarisation of the EU. Deepening security and defence policy is one of the most clear federal developments. Mr President! The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group considers it impossible to commit to the proposed overall concept of defence expenditure without further assessment of the additional resources presented. The GDP share of the Finnish defence budget, calculated by the NATO criteria, is now around 1.6%, and strategic performance projects raise the level to 2%. It is a requirement of NATO for its Member States. The use of the NATO standard is not just a calculation technique but a political message that Finland reaches the required level. We do not think it is good that Finland is involved in armaments, which further tightens the security situation in the Baltic Sea and Europe. The claim made to NATO countries for a significant increase in defence budgets is directly hurled in by the major arms trade countries and their companies. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group does not approve of the militarisation of the EU. There is no military force to fight against mass unemployment, internal segregation within the Union, economic crises and the problem of refugees. Building a military-industrial complex cannot be the glue that holds the EU together. More important than material is the will to defend the country and how the staff working in the organisation are treated. The constant change in organizations and uncertainty about the future weakens the ability of staff to cope. Back in the day, the Defence Forces’ food supply was transferred to the Lion Catering, which immediately led to a deterioration in working conditions and substantial wage reductions. A motion for a law amending the Finnish Defence Forces Act was adopted by the government parties in the recent parliament. As a result, civilian or military personnel already engaged in the Defence Forces may be forced against their will to engage in military action in the field of military action. Retrospective legislation is always reprehensible and, in particular, when it comes to the fundamental rights of the worker and the threat to the health and life of the worker. The ability of the staff is not improved by the employer's dictating and the introduction of new obligations by sanctions, which the employees had no idea about when they entered into a employment or service relationship. Mr President! In all international co-operation, Finland must safeguard national mobility and independent decision-making rights. The Left Alliance requires that international crisis management operations are always authorised by the UN Security Council or the OSCE. The assistance and solidarity clauses of the Treaty of Lisbon and the fulfilment of their obligations are always a bilateral negotiation process between the assisting country and the host country. The will of the majority of EU Member States or of the key Member States must not automatically become the position of the smaller Member States under pressure of harmonisation. In international training activities, priority should be given to national benefits. Special attention should also be paid to the nature of international exercises when it comes to a new or particularly important aspect of foreign and security policy. In international training operations, different provocations must be prevented, which may be the aim of some of the training partners to test the Finnish foreign and security policy line. Mr President! As a partner country, NATO provides Finland with the possibility of deeper cooperation. However, NATO standards, for example, are a practical way of engaging Finland more closely into NATO's side. The text of the report, which refers to the absence of practical obstacles to possible military alliances in the context of the development of defence cooperation, can also be understood as a way of making military training, standards and procurement increasingly closer to Finland's ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u13	Madam President! The Defence Forces are probably the best lobbying organisation in Finland, and we have probably all had a taste of it. But I'm telling you, it's not a good idea to uncritically buy all the needs the Defence Forces are trying to sell to us. It reminds me, for example, of combat helicopters, which were absolutely necessary to buy for Finland. This acquisition was not made and therefore there is no problem. Airbags — how necessary and how effective they are now. If, at the same time, we cut off education, social security, the livelihood of ordinary people, we will certainly ask many people the question of what is the country that is defended in such a way that weapons are put before ordinary people. It is therefore important that, at this stage, we do not commit ourselves to any amount in the HX project, but carefully assess the real need, both in terms of quantity and purchase prices. Madam President! We must work closely with Sweden — a neighbouring country, a militarily non-aligned country — but not with a military alliance with Sweden, but with cooperation that will benefit both of us, in which we may also have better financial resources for our defence forces. EU militarisation is federal development, if any. When certain parties here speak out against federal development, in the name of logic, they should oppose this militarisation of the EU in particular, the introduction of defence expenditure into the EU budget. If this is not federal development, then what is? That is why, Madam President, I support the four proposals made by Mr Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u14	Now it's possible to have a debut. I'm asking you to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up. Let us have this debate first in two minutes. I will let you know if and when we move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u15	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki took a strange point of view for me, contrasting social values in a way that I am not really able to relate to. In recent days, in recent weeks, when there has been talk of rising defence expenditure to 2% of GDP, I personally believe that this expenditure should be raised to 3%. I am partly using Mr Soin's wise ideas to support this, but I am also convinced of this. Overall security is based on the existence of a defence that is in good condition, which is credible, but there is also development cooperation, humanitarian aid, the foreign service and such activities as support for universal human values. I believe that this is a 3% target, and it also requires elements of defence. I will put these in a complete basket, and I hope that here we will be able to review our thinking on how to move world peace forward, how to avoid conflicts and how to reduce human suffering in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u16	Madam President! I agree with Mr Kanerva that we must have a more comprehensive view of how we defend Finland, how we defend peace in the world. This is done through development cooperation, conflict prevention, reconciliation, good neighbourly relations. In the global world, Finland is not out of any crisis, but all countries are somehow linked to them, but it is precisely because of this situation that it is important that Finland is a militarily non-aligned country and invests not so much in weapons but in this soft side. Mr President! At the same time, it must be said that raising defence spending cannot be an absolute value. The preservation of Finland's credible defence is an absolute value and the fact that we are a country with a will to defend ourselves is precisely the will to ensure that no one attacks Finland and no one thinks that Finland could be used to attack another country. That is why we need a critical assessment of, for example, fighter acquisitions, their scale in terms of quantity and the price they are, what orders are made. This critical debate should now take place. Now this report, as it stands, has included, in a way, an estimate of between 7 and 10 billion, plus the life-cycle costs, which may be double that. That is why we cannot commit ourselves to this objective. That is why it is important that we have indicated that this should be evaluated honestly, calmly and analytically when its place is in place, and not pre-set the amounts to be put into the fighter procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u17	Mr President! The chairman, Mr Kanerva, gave a very detailed account of the committee's report on how to keep Finnish defence up to date when entering the 2020s. The bottom line is that after the wars Finland has not succumbed to historylessness, thinking that nothing worse would threaten us. We always have to be up to speed. We have not driven our defence forces down in the past decades, keeping it up to date with these little funds that have always been available. This is the basis for updating our defences in the next decade. Mr Kanerva stressed a broad consensus, and it was very broad — the Left Alliance is now expressing its own ideas, but that is one slice of this whole. In many cases, the Left Alliance agreed and agrees with the other groups on certain lines of defence of Finland. Total safety must not be forgotten. It is a great thing that in November an update will be made to the overall security line, taking into account everything that is happening around the world and knocking at the gates of Finland, these terrorist threats and so on. This requires that we have this overall security approach up-to-date. Two minor comments on the report. Firstly, the report has strongly emphasised the will to defend the country and the factors affecting it, and for the first time in the history of reports and reports, the social integrity of society is directly linked to the will to defend the country. This is the first time that this is highlighted in this way. It's a big deal. The second point is that when we talk about international cooperation — and that is also the correct point here — the more useful it will be for us, the more up-to-date and credible our own defence. Then we will also benefit best from this international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u18	Madam President! As vice-chairman of the committee, I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kanerva and the other members of the committee for their good report. Cooperation within the committee has been good. At least there have been no differences up to the queue, and perhaps the differences are more in detail or behind political spectacles. The committee has set itself the objective of making the report a better document than the report, and that is certainly the objective that has been achieved. We have been able to cover the gaps that may have been left in the report. One might say that consensus and a strong will to defend the country are the most important weapons in this republic. At the same time as the political debate is now on these major acquisitions, I would like to remind you in this context of our foundation of general military duty, defence of the country as a whole and military non-alignment on the basis of the reserve created by universal military service. As the Minister for Defence mentioned, I personally think it is extremely important that we should be able to increase the level of refresher training that has fallen over the last period, which was already planned to be raised to this 18,000 today. If we could at least have a small plan on how we could increase the number of refresher exercises at the same time as the current one, ensuring that trainers too, we would be able to increase the number of regular staff in relation to what this uplifting of 50 000 wartimes requires. This relationship should now be brought right. We are raising the troops of the war by 50,000 — we should also increase the level of repetition exercises.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u19	Madam President! It is totally unacceptable that Mr Arhinmäki puts the ordinary citizen against the defence expenditure. It is clear that credible defence and defence are precisely for the purpose of making an ordinary citizen feel safe in this country. In particular, defence, internal and external security are the central and most important tasks of the State. We should thank the committee for its determined work on the defence report. After all, this is a strategic and concise report, which provides a good basis for Finland's defence planning and political reference development in a changing environment in the next few years. There is no reason to assume that our security environment will become more predictable than it has been in recent years, on the contrary, it is probably easiest to describe the change in our security environment with the words 'unforeseeable'. It is therefore very important that, in addition to our own defence capabilities, the report also focuses on closer international relations and cooperation. It is important, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, points out, that in this international cooperation we are also paying attention to factors and expenditure other than directly military expenditure. In this context, however, it is important to emphasise that, also with reference to Mr Arhinmäki's speech on this soft side, our eastern neighbour has not recently shown his soft side, so it is essential that we also invest in a credible deterrent, and this report provides an excellent framework for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u20	Mr President! I, too, appreciate the work of the Observatory and the fact that we are actually trying to see what big things we share, as well as the work of the Committee on Defence: a report of some kind, a good and excellent report from the Committee on Defence. [Laughter] I will return to the sentence that I heard in a review exercise when the officer in charge of the refresher exercise said that the best defence work is a well-managed social policy. I fully sign it, and I appreciate that characterization. But every day, in this house, we have to think about what the money is for. In this sense, it is strange that we should try to limit the debate, that these huge sums are somehow outside the discussion or questioning or criticism. You might want to think about all the money we have in that country. For example, Finland has already put EUR 800 million in operations in Afghanistan, without any permanent change being made in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u21	Mr President! I think it is important that the citizens do not have the taste of what Mr Mustajärvi said in his first speech, that we invest in defence and security at the request of others. We do it purely from our own needs. I think that both the defence report and the parliamentary response are marked by four issues at this time. The first is a concrete improvement in preparedness, which in itself sends out a rather serious signal that our safety environment analysis has changed. Another characteristic is the consistent but well thought-out progress on important procurement issues, which will require excessive cooperation during the parliamentary term. The third issue is the strong deepening of the concept of overall security, and the fourth is, of course, the increase in international cooperation. It was very good that the chairman of the committee raised this national integrity, to which Kääriäinen and Mustajärvi referred, but I believe that it is not only a matter of the will to defend the country but also of the decision-making capacity of our society. Yes, it can be said that in critical times, in a pressurized situation, there is certainly an attempt to disrupt decision-making capacity as much as possible, and from that point of view, national integrity is a matter of enormous importance. This same broad framework for overall security also involves economic self-interest. We have to keep our public finances in order so that we don't have to go around begging for our hat. We must take care of food and energy safety, in general, of factors where we will never be subjected to blackmail.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u22	Madam President! In my view, this report has rightly highlighted this concept of overall security, because it is clear that sufficient defence requires more than just adequate performance and preparedness. New threats have come alongside the old ones, highlighting both the integrity of society and the fact that a person feels that he wants to care for and defend this country. These hybrid and cyber threats have been well highlighted in the report. It has emphasised that they are also a matter for society as a whole, and the ability of individuals to respond, for example, to hybrid influences is also an important role. The report has also pointed out that the obligation to defend the country applies to everyone regardless of gender, and it is good that it has made a strong point both to the development of women's military service and to the need to provide all citizens with adequate capacity to act in crisis and emergency situations, regardless of gender. How this will be done will certainly remain to be seen. This is not the point where this debate was opened more broadly, but we know that it is more important than ever for all of us to have these capabilities. The international dimension is also important. If we look at global security, crisis management, for example, is one part of this. Cooperation both within the EU and bilateral cooperation with different countries is important. It brings us skills, but it also brings us more cooperation and readiness. Sweden is in a special position as a partner for us. It emerges both in the report and in the report, and I personally consider this to be a very important line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u23	Mr President! The report on defence contains large, large-scale entities, as we have heard here, in terms of defence and security. We have all registered that this credibility of Finland is based on general military duty. During this time, we have taken major and important decisions in committee: increasing preparedness, providing and receiving international assistance, and then we have also raised this capacity. Then one thing that is very important to take into account is this ability to cope with the staff. We know that during the last period, when this defence reform was carried out, there have been many staff cuts. Yes, this should be considered how this can be developed. It is also appropriate to have a debate on these major procurements — fleet 2020 and fighter acquisitions — but it is known that they will be completed in mid-2020. If we want to keep this kind of credible defense, then we have to be prepared for these purchases. In this report, we also stress that Parliament should be kept up-to-date, both in substance and in budgetary matters. Here are a few things. Then I will take a closer look at what I am saying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u24	Mr President! I too would like to thank the chairman of the committee and the ministers for their good guidance on this very important subject. I would also like to wonder, on my own behalf, at the way in which the Left puts these acquisitions against their necessity and, on the other hand, social security. This is a pointless and artificial confrontation. It's kind of like asking households to choose between fire insurance or a grocery store. It can't be like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u27	Madam President! Yes, I am surprised at the spirit of the right side of the argument that the euro that is put in this massive acquisition of destroyers, if any, beyond what would be a prerequisite for credible security policy procurement, would be some different euro. They are the euro that is being collected from taxpayers, entrepreneurs, employees, the unemployed, and they are the euro that is being put against the state budget, whether they are being put into the destroyers so and so much, whether they are being researched and taught, whether they are being put into social security, whether they are being put into business subsidies. There are no two economies, a military economy and a civilian economy. The same budget applies to everyone, and that is why I think it is our right to criticise this economic aspect as well. It is commonly said that if you want peace, prepare for war. That is what all the countries are doing from North Korea, they are saying that the security of the country needs to be guaranteed, they need to be prepared for attacks, and then some developing countries are putting far too much of their margin of manoeuvre into defence. This is happening. If you want peace, you must make a peaceful foreign policy and promote disarmament, not arms race. At least that's my personal position.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u28	Mr President! I hope that at times a person is so wise that these weapons are not needed at all, but I am afraid that we will have a long time to wait for that era. By then, we will have to take care of our own safety. It reminds me, Mr Uotila, of other sayings, such as the fact that there is an army in every country, either your own or someone else's.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u33	Mr President! The foreign and security policy must be seen as a comprehensive whole, accompanied by this credible self-defence and development cooperation and crisis resolution and crisis management package. As far as these procurements are concerned, I have understood that there is a broad consensus in Parliament that we should stick to a credible defence of our own, that is the starting point. I think it is important to consider what the future needs of the Army will be and how it will be linked to these procurements. This Army is an absolutely central part of maintaining Finland's credible self-defence, and from that point of view these new acquisitions must also be evaluated. The Social Democratic Party takes the view from its point of view that credible self-defence must be maintained; these future acquisitions must be addressed when they can be decided in time. That the starting point is that we are committed to that credible self-defence and to maintaining it in the necessary procurement. I also think it is important that this debate, which has now taken place here on these services of the welfare society, is about maintaining the welfare state in relation to this defence. They should not be put against each other. What is essential, however, is that people in Finland should also have the feeling that everyone is being cared for, and now the situation is that not all people have feelings like this — this is related to this current government policy, it is linked to this longer-term economic development. We need to be able to talk about these things side by side. That is why I have raised this opportunity for the debate to reflect on the big acquisitions of the Defence Forces and also on their financing in a new way, and that is why I believe that we should be prepared to consider all the financing options, including this defence tax, in the right way, as a fixed-term tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u34	Mr President! To the extent that I fully agree with the views of the Left Alliance that Finland must also be able to debat this, even oppose it, and bring its own views on the content, of course. But now, of course, Mr President, it must be borne in mind that, at best, Parliament cannot be the body that decides on the type of machinery or the number of machines or which systems are compatible in this respect. It must be based on professional knowledge that we must take part in the definition of its criteria, but beware of it, especially at this stage, that we should start saying that the machines must be acquired there and that they must be that mark or that the number of them must be a certain number. I am in favour of free argument, but let us not imagine that it is in the competence of Parliament to make decisions on this content. Parliament gives the money as it sees fit, it is clear, but let us not go deep into that debate ourselves, so that we begin to say what is going to happen to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u35	Madam President! You have to be soundly critical of all expenses. It is not possible for the Defence Forces to have a procurement wish that is not critically considered. In my earlier speech, I referred, for example, to battle helicopters. According to the Defence Forces, it was absolutely necessary to acquire them in Finland, but not to acquire them or to be in trouble. The question is that this report has given due consideration to this will to defend the country, and what is essential is that people are not excluded, people have education, jobs and livelihoods. That way, there is the will to defend a country that you feel is yours. And when Mr Lepomäki said here that we cannot put these things against each other: as long as these acquisitions are carried out within the frameworks and at the same time there is a call for cuts from one side of education and from the other, of course they are against the other. I find it strange the idea raised by Mr Lepomäki that budgetary issues should not be discussed in this Chamber and that politics should not be included in this Chamber. I would like to say emphatically now if anyone wants to create a straw like this, that we do not think that obsolete equipment should be renewed or replaced: we have never said that there should be no procurement. We have said that we must be critical of that amount and that price and assess it. And that, Mr Kanerva, is the Parliament, it is the government's job. It can't be defined by the Defence Forces alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u36	Madam President! This report has taken a very strong position on the future on only one point. It is the impetus that will require parliamentary preparation in the future. I think that is good and justified. We did consider a number of other things, but this was what we, as a committee as a whole, wanted to bring to this actual report, because this thought that we had three separate reports was justified, but there was little difference in the starting position, the situation picture and the style in which they were made. I hope that, in the future, if this model were to continue from three, these would have a somewhat similar level of work to be done on these issues, because they were now quite different in size and in different sizes. These are the real issues. Of course, Finland's defence is based on its own integrity, independence, military duty and non-alignment. What is best for Finnish society has already emerged here. We therefore need the resilience, the resilience, as it is often translated. We are required to have a will to defend the country, so that this country, where we want to live, all have the ability and the desire to defend. But it requires two things: It requires a strong society so that society works, so that we have the structures in order. And it requires the experience that Finns are not divided into two, those who do better and those who do worse, because this division does not evenly defend Finland from every place, so that it is everyone's will. With regard to these procurements, I agree with the previous ones that it is necessary to be able to assess — although it is written there that performance is kept — how that performance is kept. How many, for example, of Hornet
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u37	Mr President! This defence statement is an important, important policy, especially in these times when people are concerned about their national security as well as their own security. It is very important that this debate be continued next autumn in the context of the update of the overall strategy on security in society. What is also important is that the parliament or the government should take the line that general military service is a matter that is still being held on. It guarantees internationally recognised, high-quality military education and knowledge for our country. Active voluntary defence work is also maintained and further developed. It was very good that this committee's report also included a clear reference to the fact that the obligation to defend the country applies to everyone, regardless of gender, according to Article 127 of the Constitution. The committee therefore stresses that all citizens should be provided with adequate capacity to act in crisis and emergency situations. In the context of this debate outside the Defence Report, it has been proposed to provide this comprehensive capability, such as mandatory invitations to women. Well, this one day of invitation does not in any way contribute to the readiness of women to offer opportunities and market access to military training. Well, we do not currently have room in the brigades or in the units to train more women. These places should be increased if they are to do so. Neither do our wartime forces currently need more soldiers in their ranks.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u38	Madam President! A few points of view: First of all, safeguarding one’s own defence is not an arms race; it makes sense. On the other hand, it does not make sense to put education and credible defences against each other. Finland celebrates its 100-year independence, which we have had to fight for and pay a heavy price for. Even out of respect for previous generations, Finland's defence under all circumstances must be taken seriously and seen as a common cause. There must be a broad consensus on our country's defence capability. It is essential for the common interest and security. In addition, the pursuit of extensive international cooperation and interaction is in the interests of our country. I believe that this report has been carefully prepared and that these views of the committee are the basis on which it is good to continue this debate, and I hope that the whole Parliament, all the parliamentary groups, can be involved in this matter. If a house gets into a fight with itself, it rarely stays up. This is the host country agreement that was mentioned here. It is true that when you carefully read what it contains, it is already a step towards military cooperation in a crisis situation. I can see that quite clearly, and I would like the ministers sitting here to be able to open up a little how they can see this host country agreement and then the other agreements with the United States. I found this comparison of Finland with North Korea a little strange, which was mentioned here, that I think it is quite a distance between the two countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u39	Mr President! I too share the satisfaction with which this report has been dealt with, and why not, because I have attended both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence to take part in this debate. It is understandable that, in this debate, too, these issues of money and procurement receive great attention. That's what they deserve. This agreement is also based on our social democrats' recognition of a certain level increase, but it is equally clear — and I understand that this applies to all the other groups — that there is no commitment now to any euro or specific procurement plans, nor can we commit, and this is not an open mandate for anyone. But an important condition for this agreement is that we have also been able to deal more extensively with this report on the security policy environment and the principles of Finland's foreign and security policy, as we have already done in the discussion of the report on foreign and security policy. On the basis of this, I think it is extremely important that the report states how 'the clear aim of Finland's foreign and security policy is to prevent Finland from becoming a party to a military conflict. In a changing operating environment Finland aims to achieve this by maintaining the resilience of society to crisis and the credibility of defence. Finland is pursuing an active stability policy to prevent military threats." And further: "A credible defence and the opportunity to provide and receive assistance in crisis situations are the basis of our security, but Finland does not allow its territory to be used for hostile purposes against other countries." These are key principles which I would otherwise like to find more often in the speech of the Foreign and Defence Ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u40	Mr President! It is good to continue with the previous speech on page 28 of this committee's report: "The primary objective of maintaining Finland's military defence capability is to create a preventive threshold for the use and threat of military force. The Defence Forces must be able to respond to both traditional military threats and wider threats." Madam President! Overall safety has been well highlighted in this report, and I myself consider it important. The Finnish will to defend the country is based on general military duty, and it has already been established that it has fortunately been preserved in Finnish history and is widely appreciated in our neighbouring countries. In order to keep the will to defend the country high, it does require that we have the resources for both voluntary defence and equipment and exercises. In my opinion, participation in international exercises increases the will to defend the country, but in particular it also increases the professional skills of Finnish professional soldiers and is thus a well-founded form of action. We have raised the issue of these different procurements and the issue of them. I would like to remind you that between 2012 and 2017, the purchase of the Army has been made by 1.7 billion people, so this category of Army weapons has also been awarded. Of course it needs to be taken care of, but in the future, these fleet 2020 and HX acquisitions will be the ones that will probably discuss us here in the Chamber for many years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u41	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Defence is an improved edition of the Government report, and that is a good thing. The committee did a very thorough job, and we also went on missions in the United States during that work. Interestingly, less than ten years ago in the United States and the world, the public military service in Finland was laughed at as an open-air museum. However, after the crisis in Ukraine, the attitude changed completely, and now Finland’s general military service is also appreciated in the world. In the United States, it was abandoned in the '70s and now only 1% of the population participates in the armed forces. Limited participation has separated the army from the rest of society to its own bubble, and citizens do not know what the army is doing. The U.S. Army employs 11,000 people to recruit only. This is where the Marines, the Air Force and the Navy recruiters will be on top of it. So they spend millions of dollars on taxpayers’ money simply to attract young people to join military service. This is quite a waste in my view, and I think that the general military system in Finland is better than the wage army and is the cornerstone of our credible own defence. The fundamental pillar is also the will to defend the country and the associated reduction of social and economic inequalities, the importance of which has been highlighted in the report. Every Finn should feel that this country is good and worthy of defence. So everything has to do with everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u42	Let us take Mr Heinonen and Mr Kari, and then the ministers will make short speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u43	Madam President! Foreign Minister Soini talked about friends, and it is good that our situation is such that our friends can choose. We do not have neighbours, and that is why we must act decisively on these issues. It is good that we are now deepening cooperation with Sweden. The expansion of the EU in security policy is also an absolute advantage for such a non-military country, and also for us to be as involved in NATO partnership programmes as far as they can go. The representative, Minister Kanerva, went through our report. It has been done with good cooperation and it is easy to agree with that number of thanks. It is also thanks to Minister Niinistö for the determination and rapid response to the changed situation during this period, so that our material is up-to-date for all, both in the Army, the Navy and the Air Force, and also for the ability to function in addition to resources, i.e. the right to act, to act quickly. This is about the HX project, the Hornets. That is perhaps the basic line that Parliament is now defining that we want to see the outgoing performance fully replaced. It must now be decided in principle, and then there is another question as to how it will be replaced. But of course the fact is that, in the event of an air battle, when we want to defend the country as a whole, the number will be more or less the same as at the moment, or then we will have to make different choices if the flocks in use are smaller, that we are not responsible for defending the country as a whole. At least the coalition assumes that we want to defend Finland from the north to the south, and so I understand that the government of our country does.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u44	Madam President! Mr Heinose: so does the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u47	Minister Niinistö, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u48	Madam President! Thank you for a lively debate with the representatives. Indeed, the defence of the country is our common cause. Mr Mustajärvi and Mr Arhinmäki, and apparently the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance in general, wish to challenge these lines of defence. Of course, I can question it, but there is one point I would like to address here, namely the price of the successor to the Hornets. The notions of "price of supply" — between EUR 7 billion and EUR 10 billion — and "life-cycle costs" are mixed. The HX project includes destroyers, the necessary back-up systems, weapons, sensors, and can be implemented with this amount of EUR 7 to 10 billion. Life-cycle costs, in turn, are included in the normal budget of the Defence Forces, just as the life-cycle costs of Hornets, ships, cannons or other military equipment are today. So this is like buying a dwelling: there is a purchase price and then the cost of continuing maintenance, such as electricity, insurance, renovations and so on. In other words, both costs, purchase price and life-cycle costs certainly have their meaning in the HX project and will be taken into account in the project. As far as Mr Arhinmäki's assessment of the funding of the Defence Forces is concerned, I would just like to say here that there can be opinions, but it is up to the Defence Forces to carry out the role assigned to them by law. Military defence safeguards Finland's independence and existence in the current situation, where our security environment has undoubtedly changed. Finland, which is not part of the military alliance, has reason to have a credible defence, both the Earth, the Sea and the Air Force must be in good shape without forgetting the cyber dimension. I agree with the words 'the whole country must be defended'. Representative Kari drew attention to refresher exercises — an important speech. It is difficult to increase the number of refresher exercises very quickly with current resources, but this must be done gradually as the number of troops in the war is increased. At least through voluntary defence we can train more, and I do not mind additional funding for this purpose or refresher exercises in general. However, the current garrison network, the number of staff and the financial framework do not make it realistic to increase the number of refresher training days by more than 10% of the current level.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u49	Secretary Soini, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u50	Madam President! I'll start with this big picture: Foreign and security policy must be pursued and implemented in Finland in such a way that aid is exported and involved in conflict prevention, management of conflicts in the world by civilian and military crisis management, because everything that happens in the world will eventually happen to us. And this can be influenced, for example, by the training operation in Iraq, by the peace-keeping mission in Lebanon, and yes, even there in Afghanistan, although it has been expensive, women, children, many others have been able to help. Now the girls are going to school — do you think they'll make it during the Taliban? Madam President! Then from Finland and around Finland: Finland must have its own initiatives, like the President of the Republic's initiative on air safety, it is more topical than ever in the Baltic Sea. We've got to be patient. We've got to be reasonable about this. But we see now that what is happening in Ukraine, what is happening in our neighbourhood, is reflected in our seas, reflected in our borders. That is why we must be active in the UN, in the EU, in the OSCE, in the Council of Europe, in the Nordic Council, in everything, and that is the overall security. Then, in addition to armed defence, foreign and security policy, we have internal security: intelligence cooperation, counter-terrorism, anti-radicalisation. These are a big whole, and these people need to talk to each other. Finland is a non-military country but wisely keeps the possibilities open — only the interests of the country decide where to end up. At the moment, the situation is clear and good, but we should not close any doors in this world. It's important that we have a choice. It is also one part of showing abroad that Finland decides its own affairs. Finally, the big thing for us small countries is that there is rule-based, rule-based cooperation in the world. The worst part is that the big countries, the superpowers, fit things over the heads of the small countries. We must therefore participate in these international organisations so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u51	There is about half an hour left to discuss this issue. For the rest of the time, we can use it in the debate, but let us now move on to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u52	Madam President! Minister Niinistö's speech gave the impression that: The Defence Forces would somehow be completely neutral in assessing their needs for equipment, for example, without adding anything or exaggerating anything. My argument is that this is not true. Of course, the Defence Forces are trying to get as much as they can. I have raised here earlier the issue of the procurement of a combat helicopter, which was supposed to be absolutely necessary. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, I remember from my own time as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy how I was sitting at the Chief Staff and it was explained that it was absolutely necessary to get some money for certain missile procurements, that there was nowhere to be found, and that when we announced as a government that there was a need to be found, the money was finally found. In other words, the question and the essential point of the whole debate have been that we do not directly sign these proposed procurement costs,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u53	Madam President! The absolute value around which work must be done is security. The absolute value is not euros or equipment. Another absolute value is that decisions are held in their own hands in all situations, whether they concern procurement or decisions as to who to cooperate with or in which direction to join or whether to join forces. However, I would like to ask Minister Niinistö in this connection about the situation in the Army, which was judged satisfactory. On the other hand, with regard to artillery, significant purchases have been made and are being made — tanks, smart-seeking ammunition, anti-tank research — and even in Helsingin Sanom, the artillery inspector said that the Finnish artillery will become the strongest and best in Europe with these acquisitions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u54	Madam President! There have been changes in the Finnish security environment. Most of them are negative, but there are also positive developments, and this concerns above all the EU's common defence and security policy. That is not yesterday's issue; for the first time the EU's common defence and security policy has already been mentioned in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 97. But especially now, perhaps because of Brexit or other reasons, especially on the Francogermanic axis, there seems to be a strong move forward, and the Commission has also issued its own reflex papers. Finland should be involved in this. However, there are certain limitations to the EU's common security and defence policy. For example, there is no Council for ministers, there are only about 200 staff and most EU Member States are members of NATO, 22 countries, and of course no overlapping organisation will be created. But we can also expect benefits for Finland, such as the pool of defence equipment procurement, and in particular the strengthening of overall security, the strengthening of the EU's democracy policy and support for the development of the rule of law, and so on. But if the Minister has time to answer, I would ask you:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u55	Mr President! In the discussion on the referral to the report, I agreed with the thanks for the excellent report. Now I can join in thanking you for your commendable report. In the referral debate, like many representatives, I raised the issue of the role of cybersecurity in the limitedness report. The Committee on Defence has therefore paid particular attention to cybersecurity and considers it essential that cybersecurity be taken as a top priority in all ministries and their administrative sectors. Today's society is very vulnerable to these attacks. On the basis of the report it has received, the committee believes that improving cybersecurity in Finnish society requires a clearer definition of the responsible parties, and the committee believes that a clear coordination body capable of directing cybersecurity activities in the state administration could be created, for example, under the authority of the Prime Minister's Office. In their speeches, ministers have already partially responded to these cybersecurity threats and their response. However, I would have asked for an assessment of what the above-mentioned entry in the report on improving the coordination of cybersecurity activities might lead to.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u56	Madam President! Stability is probably the word that comes to mind when we consider how we can strengthen security. This will be done by strengthening stability, and it must be done at all levels: within Finland, by ensuring that everyone is involved, and also by ensuring that our decision-making capacity is effective and that there are also clear rules of play and division of labour, who does what, and also if normal conditions have to go towards crisis conditions. Finland must then contribute to stability in the Baltic Sea region in the neighbouring regions, and there is also a need to be involved in developing joint defence cooperation in Europe. When we go more widely internationally, just like the Foreign Minister. Soini has just said that we must be active in international organisations, both the UN and the OSCE, and be involved in crisis management, and development cooperation also plays a very important role in this global stability. Minister Soini did not say just now that how Finland intends to invest in this in the future, because now they are behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u57	Värderade Talman! Såväl försvarsredogörelsen som utskottets betankande är bra. Det är bra att vi nu har öjlighet att diskutera både den militära omgivningen och de militära resurser som behövs för att upprätthålla ett trovärdigt försvar. Det är ju så att de militära spänningarna har ökat i världen under den senaste tiden, också i Östersjöområdet, och Kravet på att reagera snabbt har blivet allt klarare och tröskeln till att ta till maktmedel verkar ha stänkts. Därför är det viktigt att vi har ett trovärdigt försvar. Jag tycker det är alldeles klart att uppdatering av försvarsmaterial, framför allt marinens och flygvapnets, men också landstridskrafternas, kommer att krava stora satsningar, men det är satsningar som måste göras för att upprätthålla försvarsförmågan.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u58	Madam President! The will to defend the country has been discussed for a long time in this debate, and at the stage of the report the committee also took a position on this, and here Mr Vanhanen also raised the issue of a complete society and decision-making capacity. In the same way, I'm getting a little closer to the will to defend the country. Yes, a whole society requires both these arguments and a lot of other arguments, but in order to give a picture of us also here that we are, through difficult issues, building a common vision, in the sense that I do not think it is justified in any way to contradict these economic views here in the way that the left-wing alliance has now brought up. Mr Rinne has also pointed out very well that these investments are being carried out side by side in the budget, and I understand that they are being assessed as a whole, but confrontation is not the social integrity that we all need in our debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u59	Honorable Speaker! A few reflections on the defence statement from the perspective of public finances. First of all, defence expenditure should be calculated according to international accounting rules in the future. This would be a very good change. Now that we see an increase of 50 million in capacity-building, 150 million in annual investment and 570 million in investment, that is really a good thing when we still have cost-effective procurement. But when it comes to these fleet and HX projects — they are big, huge projects — it has to be said that this report states that this report is only the basis for further preparation and that in 2019 we will have to carry out a further study of how these procurements are paid out. Finally, I would like to ask why, in relation to the additional budget, the Defence Forces' operating expenditure:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u60	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that this defence report has produced a very valuable report. I think it is very valuable that the fact that Finland is defended every square metre of it has been taken into account. In fact, all other ministries would be able to follow the pattern of taking such full equality into account in this way. Our credible defence is based on general military duty and is an extremely good choice from the Finnish people. Very good choice. Another important choice is that we maintain a credible defence, even by means of good equipment for the military, and that we have a sufficient number of conscripts and reserves to implement it. So we can do this work with credible equipment, and above all, the will to defend the country must be good. A nation that considers itself worthy of defense and these countries to be a good home for us can do its job as well as possible in this world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u61	Mr President! The defence industry is also involved in defence. In addition to your own need, supplies are also made for exports. Unfortunately, there are also countries in export countries that are involved in conflicts and do not respect human rights. Finland exports weapons to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, although they are involved in the Yemeni conflict and their presence in the conflict has not improved the situation in Yemen, perhaps vice versa. Finnish weapons can drift to Yemen and can be used against civilians. The European Parliament has supported the arms embargo in Saudi Arabia and many European countries have tightened their line on arms exports to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. I would like to ask the ministers: how do you estimate that arms exports will affect security situations and civilian conditions in the region in Yemen, and is the crisis in Yemen deep enough to allow the government to draw a conclusion on the suspension of arms export permits to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u62	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Defence for a good report, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs also had much to offer. The report summarises the direction of Finland's foreign and security policy. Finland pursues an active stability policy to prevent military threats. Finland’s defence is based on a national defence solution and a non-membership of the military alliance. Finland’s important support is membership of the European Union, developing Nordic cooperation and a well-functioning partnership with NATO. I would like to highlight one more aspect of the report, specifically the cooperation that is excellent in Finland in various areas. Customs, the police, the Defence Forces, the Border Guard are exemplaryly working together, and this is one of the prerequisites for us to have such a good resilience to crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u63	Madam President! As a member of the Committee on Finance and the Section for Administration and Security, I would like to reflect on this issue in this context, precisely through the question of the financing of these procurements. It is clear to me that, if and when we need security today, we will be making the choice as to what kind of purchases it requires and what amounts it will take, that consideration will be later, there will of course be no possibility or need to commit to them, but we will have to look carefully at them. But precisely because this would not threaten us, we must assume that these procurements must not threaten our education system, the health system, once and for all. We have to get this funding from somewhere. That is why I think it is important to increase the amount of money that has been in the debate here too, so that the possibility of this defence tax is identified as one of the funding possibilities. I am very pleased that the committee, in its own report, also points to the possibility that this will be dealt with, because I think it is quite right to think that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u64	Madam President! The Left and the SDP have now become these concerns about the increase in defence spending and these future acquisitions. It is clear that these must be discussed, and it is great that, for once, the left side also sees that we have a budget restriction and that we also have to put public spending against each other, and it is great that we are discussing it, and that is what we have done today. On the other hand, Mr Arhinmäki said earlier that weapons would take precedence over ordinary people. To that I have to say that in the opinion of our congregators, there is no such thing as an ordinary person. Finland is full of appreciative individuals for whom it is very important to offer a safe environment to live a life of its own. Personally, internal and external security are one of the most important tasks of the State, are very difficult to privatise or outsource, and that is hardly what the Left Alliance would be prepared to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u65	Madam President! Of course, Finland's security is based on its own defence and strong will, but also strongly on international action, and it needs to be reassessed in this changing international political situation. We have strong expertise in peace-keeping, but so far we have also had strong expertise in peace negotiations and the drawing of them. I am a little concerned about our development cooperation, the investments in it and the United Nations for this whole global ball and Finland's influence there. Of course, we have international exercises, and we always go through the listings together, at least for information purposes. There has been a lot of cooperation with the Nordic countries, especially Sweden, and there are bilateral agreements with different countries, such as Britain and Germany. The new is also this assistance and reception, the practical experience of which will then be seen later.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u66	Madam President! The number of refresher exercises must be maintained, and perhaps the need for them will increase even further in the future. Another important line is that the Committee on Defence has again underlined the need to provide funding for this voluntary defence work, and I myself, at least to the chairman of my party, Mr Orpo, have given direct feedback to the Finance Minister that this money needs to be secured directly so that voluntary defence gets what is due to it. In the Committee on Defence, this cyber coordination rose to a very large role and debate. If rail traffic is attacked by a fighter, the Defence Forces will answer it by the Air Force, but if it is attacked through computers, it is the responsibility of some other operator. I would like to ask Minister Niinistö how you would welcome this idea of strengthening coordination through, for example, the Prime Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u67	Madam Speaker! I would like to thank Mrs Kanerva and the Committee on Defence and also the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the very diverse work that has been done. I led the Committee on Defence over ten years ago when we made the report back then. I am very pleased that this report is based entirely on the basic principles and infrastructure that we already represented at the time. It is very positive that this has widened to the point of view of society here, within the framework of the will for defence, and I am pleased that the relationship with Russia, the United States, NATO has become clearer, as well as with the Nordic countries, particularly Sweden. Even then, there were opportunities for cooperation with Sweden, and this has been useful. Now, in a very diverse way, these key issues have already been raised in the speeches and others. Defence policy is about a lot of hard values, but I would also like to draw attention to the slightly softer values expressed by the Judge-in-Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u68	Madam President! Let me add: I entirely agree with Mr Kanerva that, of course, weapons technology and other expertise can be found in its field of expertise, but this must not remove the need for a wide-ranging debate around procurement. This battle helicopter pattern was such that a decision was made to acquire helicopters, helicopters, and helicopters. Minister Taina set up a parliamentary working group to monitor and monitor the implementation of its procurement. The acquisition was scheduled to be completed in 2006. During that process, I represented the Left Alliance in this parliamentary group and gave birth to a debate on the appropriateness and necessity of combat helicopters. This then spread to the public and to the political debate, and as a result, the fighting helicopters were abandoned, and no one has missed them. In other words, there are examples that the generals' requests have not always been correct and justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u69	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion about the capacity and readiness we have to deal with different kinds of emergency situations and crisis situations. It is true that our defence administration and the authorities, in cooperation with companies and organisations, are now well prepared to act, indeed very exceptional at international level, but according to the studies, citizens themselves do not see themselves as sufficiently capable of their skills and their resilience to crisis at the moment. I would have asked the Minister: what do you think of this opening, that instead of having comprehensive military training for the entire age group, even before the age of garrison, at the latest, at the second stage, for everyone, for the whole age group, for both girls and boys, training in various kinds of emergency facilities — for example, when the supply of electricity and water has been interrupted — how can you operate in such a situation? Currently such security courses are held in upper secondary schools, but this should be nationally possible. This would mean an increase in resources for defence organisations, and it is important, of course, that existing resources are already secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u70	Madam President! I think it is important, as I have already said before, that, in addition to these machines and equipment, weapons and equipment, the focus is on the human resource, our reservists, our staunch staff, knowledge and so on. I would have asked, if the Minister is allowed to speak again, how does the Minister see the timetable for raising this level of refresher training: what timetable could be used to move forward on this issue and to get such a broad parliamentary picture for the years to come? On the same occasion, I would like to remind you of the number of staff. During the last period of the Defence Power Reform, the number of personnel was reduced by around 2000. This will have a direct impact on how much we can train the reservists, because how many trainers we have. How can we also raise this staff? Hiring contract soldiers is a step in the right direction, but not quite enough. And I would like to ask the Minister's view on these development funds and the calculation of crisis management in the defence budget: do you agree with Mr Kanerva's view on this point as to whether these points should also be within the defence budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u71	Madam President! The duty of defence applies to everyone, as has often been said here, in various speeches. In particular, I would like to highlight this funding for voluntary defence. It is a great thing that the Committee on Defence takes a firm stand here that every year efforts are being made to cut funding for voluntary organisations and then, in this Chamber, it is being returned with political measures. This is now a strict line of action, and the committee welcomes the line taken in the expert consultation that in the future there will be no more such cutbacks in order to get rid of this unnecessary theatre performance. The second point I would like to draw attention to is this international cooperation. It is a very important form of cooperation, a form of training for the Finnish army and provides an opportunity to update operations and skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u72	Mr President! There has been a good and sometimes one-sided debate here. It is good because this report is good, it can be supported, it is even better than a report that clearly states that Finland's foreign and security policy aims to prevent Finland from becoming a party to a military conflict. It is in line with this report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on foreign and security policy. Since there has been a good debate here, I would not like to say what Mr Lepomäki has already said here when he pointed out that, for the first time here on the left, we are aware of the budgetary constraint, that we are aware of it all the time, but it is good to say that it is now recognised in the right that there is also expenditure there, and therefore, without having this debate, it is important that the various options be discussed as to how these possible future procurements will be financed. I would have asked what kind of preparation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u73	Before Minister Niinistö, still representatives Mikkonen, Mustajärvi and Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u74	Madam President! This report has raised the issue of the development of military service and has strongly highlighted the desire to develop voluntary military service for women in particular. This is a very good and important line. From the point of view of equality, it is clear that if our military service, which now applies only to men, were created today, there would certainly not be such a model. We know that now that Sweden is repatriating military service, it will apply to both men and women. I would have asked about this when the committee itself was not yet ready to extend invitations to the whole age group, including women, and I know that you, the Minister of Defence, have spoken about this themselves, so how do you see this: could it be possible in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u75	Mr President! If, for example, the budgetary plan for the coming years had a €3 billion cup of social investment or transport investment, then it is quite certain that the debate in this Chamber would be quite lively, but when it comes to arms procurement, the debate will be silenced. Personally, I am pleased that the talk of separate funding has been stopped, at least in the real sense, when there is no money other than tax revenue, debt money and common property. It would be a rather strange situation if, in this situation, where we already have a €3 billion start-up in terms of life-cycle costs and weapon systems, the final price could rise even double or triple, and the money should also be taken into account — the Parliament, which exercises budgetary power, would not be going to ask after this gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u76	Mr President! Yes, you ask questions, you talk, you probably answer questions, and you have to go on debating, there's no mention of that. We'll probably go back to it a trillion times. Mr President! I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense: When I happened to be in one of the seminars where the research institute was categorized into different groups — how in each country Parliament was linked to defence policy, Finland was at the top of the list, and I thought it was nice statistics, which was revealed in it. Is the Minister willing to contribute to the development of the EU defence dimension at EU level, to ensure that parliaments are also protected from the possibility of controlling its EU defence dimension in a manner similar to that which happened in NATO, for example, which the Minister himself is extremely well aware of personally? I think it is commendable that Finland should take into account the influence of parliaments and not assume it as a responsibility of the European Parliament so that the influence of national parliaments on the development of the EU's defence dimension is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u77	And at the end of the debate, at the end of this debate, Minister Niinistö, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u78	Madam President! Mr Kiuru started by asking about the situation in the Army, especially the artillery that we have been determined to develop and will develop during this parliamentary term, not least with the K9 Thunder, the K9Mookari Armoured Haul Pit acquisition,with 48 pieces from South Korea to Finland to invest. Hopefully we can also use an additional option for K9 acquisitions in the future. Generally speaking, it can be said that during this parliamentary term it will be the turn of the Army, because the major acquisitions of the Navy and the Air Force, strategic procurement, are ahead of us in the 2020s. Mr Tuppurainen asked about EU defence cooperation. That has been so largely focused on crisis management in general, but at least in Finland's wishes we will be able to develop national defence capabilities better in the future, together with our European partners, and there is hope, especially for cyber and hybrids. This EU defence cooperation will not, in principle, overlap with NATO's activities, but will be complementary. One concrete example of cooperation between the EU and NATO is the recent creation of a hybrid competence centre in Helsinki. We can return to Mr Vähämäki's question in the budgetary process. Referring to what Mr Blomqvist and Mr Pakkanen have said, it will be continued, deepened and the primary objective will remain the development of Finland's defence capability. The same applies to crisis management operations that focus on the most useful and security policy-relevant operations in Finland, in accordance with the Government Programme. Representative Sarkkinen asked about the impact of Finnish arms exports. He mentioned Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. No significant impact, not even with regard to the Yemeni war. Finland is responsible for exporting defence equipment and could actually take more. In general, as Minister of Defence, I am trying to promote responsible exports of Finland, say the small defence industry, because it is also in the interest of our military defence and security of supply. For example, we could take the example of Sweden, which has a strong defence industry. It is an important matter for a non-military country. Representatives Viljanen and Heinonen asked about this coordination of cyber security. As proposed by the Committee on Defence, the Prime Minister's Office. I believe that, in this situation, there is a need for a cross-sectoral and thorough assessment. This requires total security. Representative Kari continued to ask questions with refresher exercises. This increase in the number of refresher exercises is possible gradually. But in what order of magnitude we can go back to that, for example, in the Committee on Defence. I will not be able to intervene in the development budget at all because it does not run out of my administration. Representatives Mikkonen and Jarva asked about women's invitations. That is also largely a cost issue, but it requires a social debate. Do you think you'll be able to get up in the next parliamentary elections, for example? Personally, I would welcome the parties to define their positions on this issue as well. Mr Kanerva's proposal on how to link national parliaments to the development of the EU's defence dimension: I certainly welcome the fact that the influence of national parliaments is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u79	The debate is adjourned. The debate will continue at this session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u80	Now we will continue with the debate on item 3 that was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u81	Madam President! Parliament will continue its work on the defence report of the Committee on Defence. I welcome the concrete guidelines of the report on strengthening our defence and strengthening Western defence cooperation. In its report, the Committee on Defence stresses, among other things, the need to provide adequate resources for the Defence Forces and the balanced development of the three arms of defence and the importance of effective cooperation between the authorities in the preparation of hybrid threats. I was part of the report's parliamentary monitoring group and I share the opinion of the Committee on Defence that parliamentary monitoring covering all parliamentary parties will be organised in the preparation of future security reports. Madam President! The countries in our neighbourhood have responded to the deterioration of the security environment by improving their defence capabilities and by increasing their defence spending. For example, the Swedish Government has decided to return military service in part. Although Finland has wisely maintained its defence on the basis of universal military service, we must also invest more in defence. According to the report, military use of force against Finland or threat thereof cannot be ruled out. This means that in all situations, Finland's own defence capability must be taken care of. One of the most important guidelines in the report is therefore related to the Defence Forces' resources. In addition to the additional funds allocated and decided to improve defence capabilities and procurement, the replacement of the Air Force's Hornet equipment and the capabilities of the Navy vessels is ahead of us. The cost estimate for aviation and navy procurement in the 2020s is up to EUR 10 billion. This is a huge but absolutely necessary investment for national security. Mr President! In addition to taking care of our own defence, another key line in the report concerns the development of Western defence cooperation in Finland. According to the report, Russia is seeking to strengthen its superpower position and has expressed its objective of a security structure based on the division of interests. The Committee on Defence also stresses the importance of defence cooperation. According to the committee's report, defence cooperation strengthens Finland's international and security policy position. The EU is a security policy choice and community of values for Finland. The report states that Finland will contribute to the development of the Union's defence cooperation. Finland does not have security guarantees from the Defence Union, and it is therefore in Finland's interest that the Lisbon Treaty clause on mutual assistance increases the possibilities for developing defence cooperation between the Member States of the Union. According to the committee's report, keeping Britain within the framework of EU security and defence cooperation is important. According to the report, Finland should also be actively involved in defining areas of cooperation for the European Defence Fund in order to bring tangible benefits to Finland’s national defence. According to the report of the Committee on Defence, defence cooperation with Sweden and the development of the EU's defence dimension are key defence cooperation projects in which Finland should be actively involved during the reporting period. The report states that Finland is a non-military country that implements practical partnerships with NATO and maintains the possibility of applying for NATO membership. Finland must strive to keep this door open for its own benefit. Madam President! The Defence Report points to the future of Finnish defence in an increasingly difficult security situation. An important message is that the world has changed and will continue to change rapidly and that Finland will prepare for this by strengthening its own defence and by ensuring adequate security budgets. We can't afford to weaken performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u82	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At first, I would like to criticise this arrangement for the way in which such an important issue is dealt with in Parliament's plenary session. During the day there was time for that fast-paced debate and only a few speeches. Now the clock is nearing the end of today and there are only a few parliamentarians in the Chamber. I would like to ask for this matter to be transferred to the next plenary session, so that we can be present and have a debate on this at a somewhat different time, but I will not do so now. In my view, the model of three reports on security in a rapidly changing security situation is well-founded. We first had an internal security report, then a foreign and security policy report, and now for the first time this defence report, whose main inspiration or impetus was that we are facing such important reform needs, but also material procurement for the Defence Forces. Parliamentary follow-up in these areas has worked except for the Internal Security Report. I think it is important in the future that, if the negotiations on the Government Programme lead to such a structure, which I personally welcome, we should carry out these security reports with this three structures, they would be happy to have a joint parliamentary monitoring group that would follow the whole. This matter has been discussed in Parliament for a long time. This is almost a year and a half work, a hundred experts in the Committee on Defence, a huge number of meetings also in the opinions committees, and that is why I would have liked this matter to have been given a slightly better date in Parliament. The representative, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, gave a very broad presentation during the day of his presentation on this whole. It has been done with good cooperation. I also thanked Mr Niinistö in that debate, who has managed to respond quickly to this changed security situation at all levels. After all, our defence forces now have four tasks: military defence, official assistance, international assistance and the reception of aid, and then international crisis management. It is important for us to ensure that we have the resources in order, we need the material, and this work has now been done. I welcome the fact that, with the exception of the Left Alliance, we actually have a very united view in all the parties in this House that these resources must be pursued with determination — the fleet 2020, HX, or Hornet project, which now outlines in this report that we, as a Parliament, want to ensure that the performance of the Hornets that are leaving is fully replaced. Then decisions will be made later on, not to mention the sign of the machine. The ground forces are also the focus of important development. The K9 Thunders have come there — or the first — and that acquisition is progressing. But there are also significant fleet renewals ahead, including in the case of assault rifles. In addition to operational resources, operational capabilities and rights must also be at the right level and have also been updated in the time of Minister Niinistö. The number of refresher exercises has now been raised to the level where they are least needed, but there is a need for increase. We talked today about the appropriations for voluntary defence, and also about the will to defend the country, which I would like to raise in this debate too, that the Committee on Defence, unlike the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces, for example, raised the issue of whether it could have an impact on the calculated will to defend the country, that not everyone would feel worthy of defending it anymore. We were concerned about the integrity of a certain nation and we want it to be clarified. Cyber coordination is a key issue. We need to look for stronger coordination with the Prime Minister's Office, for example. In that debate, I pointed out, for example, that if our rail traffic, rails, attacks from abroad, for example, by fighter fighters, then the Finnish Defence Forces will send fighters to respond to this threat, but if that attack occurs by using information networks, by paralyzing the electricity grid or other means, then the responsibility rests with other factors. Mr President! Very briefly to the end of international cooperation: I welcome the fact that, in cooperation with Sweden, we are ready to take a big step forward. EU cooperation is important. For example, for a country such as ourselves, which is not part of a military alliance, it is important for us to move forward in these projects rather than as a follower, so that, for example, the security guarantees of the Treaty of Lisbon are interpreted as broadly as possible. In the NATO partnership, we have taken the most far-reaching degree of partnership, thank you for that. It's important to us. Of course, the dialogue must also be maintained with other countries, including Russia, for example, in order to preserve the stability of events in the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u83	Mr President! As outlined in the Government Programme, the Defence Report has been drawn up as a separate entity, which defines the defence policy guidelines for the maintenance, development and use of defence. The report states that Finland's military environment has changed. Military activity and military tensions in the Baltic Sea region have increased. Finland’s foreign and security policy, however, aims to prevent Finland from becoming a party to a military conflict. Finland’s defence is based on a national defence solution, i.e. a general military duty and a non-military alliance. As already mentioned during the day, wartime troops are being raised to 280,000 soldiers. More than EUR 50 million per year is proposed for the maintenance and development of preparedness. This sum is used to raise material readiness and to train troops, which affects both the Defence Forces staff and the military personnel serving in the standby unit. Important legislative changes include, for example, the Regional Control Act and also the legislation allowing for the provision and reception of international assistance. In the report we are concerned about the survival of the Defence Forces' professional soldiers and civilians. The same persons are responsible for training both conscripts and reservists without leaving sufficient time between training courses for rest and planning. Finland’s defence is in an exceptional situation in the 2020s, when the six naval vessels reach the destination of their life cycle and the Hornet fighter fleet. In the opinion of the Committee on Defence, therefore, it is clear that the implementation of strategic projects is essential for the development of the overall defence of the country. Defence cooperation is carried out with NATO and the EU and, above all, bilateral cooperation with Sweden has a special role to play. In addition to Sweden, the Committee on Defence considers the United States to be a key partner for the development of military capabilities in defence policy and for participation in international military crisis management. Finland participates in military crisis management with approximately 500 military contributions, including by the end of 2018 in Iraq in training and advisory tasks with 100 soldiers. Finland therefore participates in EU, NATO and UN missions and in peacekeeping training. Participation in international crisis management activities is an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy. Finland is well placed to respond to hybrid threats. One of the priorities mentioned in the Government Programme is the fight against hybrid influence. There are already established practices in Finland that may have to be re-created from the outset in many countries. Hybrid threats are not just military: examples of hybrid threats include online propaganda, cyber espionage, data sabotage, cyber attacks to critical infrastructure and information impact. There have also been hybrid threats in the public domain, such as the unrecognized soldiers used in the Crimean invasion, namely the Green Men and the guerrilla war in Isis. The resilience of Finnish society is created in cooperation, and preparedness involves close contact and preparation of public authorities, civil society and industry. It is important that hybrid threats can also be addressed at individual level. Mr President! Finally, military security of supply ensures the functioning of critical defence systems in the event of social disturbances. An important part of our defence capability is to ensure that material and services in good condition are delivered at the right time and place for possible military operations. As the Committee on Defence has emphasised, Finland must have the necessary industrial and technological expertise to maintain critical systems. Security of supply of energy, food and health production also plays an important role in maintaining the livelihood of the population and the functioning of the economy in possible crisis situations. Although the availability of energy is now good, any changes in the operating environment in the region should always be prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u84	Madam President! The report has been prepared with the support of the parliamentary group and the hope is that in the future, if and when it is assumed that these three separate reports will be prepared, i.e. foreign policy, internal policy and defence policy, they would all have parliamentary preparation, their level would be the same and they would all have the same picture of the situation. This was a small challenge, because the situation is always changing, and now during this process there was a Brexit vote in Britain, a change of president in the United States, which also changed the security policy situation quite a bit. On the other hand, defence cooperation on the part of the European Union also increased its strength during the course of this report alone. That is why a single impetus has been written here on the committee's side and it will strengthen the will for parliamentary preparation in the future. I think that the report is good in that it goes even deeper on a number of issues, such as cooperation in Sweden, hybrid and cyber, than the actual report, that is to say, we did a deeper look at these points. In this whole debate on security policy in Finnish society, a great deal of attention should be paid to the fact that we must have a broad consensus and a civil debate on this subject. The primary objective must be that Finland remains outside all these conflicts and that Finland's territories are not used for the hostile use or transit of other countries, targeting other countries hostilely. One test to keep the Finnish people involved is the will to defend the country, which is always tested annually by the National Defence Information Board, and it has now been alarming that the will to defend the country has decreased for all Finns. There have been some reasons for this division, that others are doing better in Finland than in the past and that others are doing much worse than in the past, apparently there is one explanation why not everyone feels that this country is worth defending from their own perspective anymore. This should not be the case; that is why this common nation of ours must be the same in everyone's experience. Another aspect of this is the resilience of the crisis, someone calls it resilience, which means that we must have a society strong enough to respond to various crises and conflicts, which is what is happening here. In this Finnish defence, the starting point is, of course, the defence of independence and territorial integrity, universal military service and military non-alignment. All of these read here too, especially non-aligned. Of course, we have a peaceful and active foreign policy, in which I would still like to see active involvement in the use of UN organisations, among other things, and our reputation in peace-keeping, but also in peace-making and negotiation. A credible defence will be strengthened in this coming years, both in terms of wartime forces and in terms of investment. We must also have the opportunity to take help in crisis situations. We must not allow our regions to be used by others and our strong partnerships, especially with Sweden, our practical cooperation with NATO and many other EU countries, are the means by which Finland's defence can certainly be strengthened. Now we have the promises of raising investment levels from 2021 onwards, 150 million, on the one hand, and improving preparedness, 55 million, as early as next year, on the other, and hopefully this level will be achieved. When we move on to larger procurements, i.e. Fleet 2020, which is already partly under way, but especially when we move on to HX projects, that is to say Hornets, it should be borne in mind that this report specifically states that there is no indication here of the number of aircraft to be purchased, nor of the amount of euros that will be used, nor of the means by which they will be financed. That is also why this idea of a defensive tax has been thrown out of place here. The entire nation is obliged to participate in or assist in the defence. There will probably be different versions of this for the future as to whether there should be more civic skills for schoolchildren in this area. Sometimes I have cast the idea myself that there should be a course for all, for example, a month or a few months, how to prepare for and support different crisis situations, but these will probably be taken forward in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u85	Madam President! The defence statement really comes at a time when it is necessary. The work on the defence statement has been very careful and the Committee on Defence must be commended for its careful and, above all, thorough work on the report. When you look at that list of experts that the Committee on Defence has heard, and just as the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, whom I very much appreciated, described in his own speech, the Committee on Defence must be fully thanked for the very good work that has been done. The situation around Finland has changed very quickly recently. Who would have thought five years ago, what situation we're in now? But we also need to adapt to this situation. Finland is a safe country and that is what we must keep, and all these things are in our own hands. This secure situation, a peaceful situation in this country must be earned every day. You can't take vacations and holidays on this one. Indeed, the preparation of the report has been done thoroughly and carefully, taking into account all the known threats that Finland has in the defence of its own country. We are members of the European Union and the European Union is an important security community for us. This will give us security guarantees, so that if we are hit by an emergency, the other Member States will help us and, of course, the other way round: if someone gets in trouble, we will certainly help you with our powers. The important message of this report is that: Finland continues to maintain these stone legs that are important to our defence: the entire country is defended on every square. Then we will have a general military service that will continue to be strong and effective. And then a credible defence will be created by having sufficient equipment to meet the needs of the Defence Forces so that the country can genuinely be defended on land, at sea and in the air. Of course, the will to defend the country will come on top of all of this. Even if we have these material things in good condition, however, if we do not have the will to defend this country, then quite a lot would be lacking. But, as we know, among our young people, for example, the will to defend the country is absolutely unwavering. In this respect, the Finns are extremely united, and this is indeed a very important issue for Finland. The situation around Finland has changed, as I said, and one of the greatest threats at the moment is these hybrid threats. Today we were dealing with the Regional Control Act, which brought up these unmarked soldiers, and that is one of the new threats that has arisen in the world in recent years. Finland has prepared itself for this too, taking these threats into account. What is important, however, is that all these areas are put in order, and it is extremely important for Finland's defence that we update this intelligence legislation. It is something that Finland does not like to compromise, not at all. I believe that Parliament will be very quick and effective in this coming autumn period. Hybrid threats have grown around us, and I think they have been very well assessed in this report. New situations call for a rapid response to every new threat. It shows that, for example, the army has provided additional funds to raise its own readiness, for example, in the past, it was a very long time for refresher exercises, but now, if necessary, it can be called very quickly so that the level of defence can be raised in an instant without long waiting times required by law. The acquisition of equipment also supports this objective. Military mobility has been improved, communications have been improved and all kinds of telecommunications equipment has been acquired in this country. It's very valuable. I remember when a debate on defence policy was about what is the best way to defend the country. There was then a comparison of the professional army with this system in Finland. A wise representative of the economy said well that does it matter whether a technical device is being used there, even if now, for example, in the use of a means of communication, a recruited Staff Sergeant who will certainly be able to do his job, or even a Nokian high - tech computer engineer, who is probably also the top expert in his field. In other words, this describes well how the Finnish system enables people to make the best use of their abilities. Mr President! Finally, the fact that security of supply is an important issue that we must keep in mind all the time. The army marches on their stomachs, as the old saying goes. And lastly, Mr President, Urho Kaleva Kekkonen said in his day — and that is the wisdom that matters to Finland: always keep those friends close and the enemies as far away as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u87	Mr President! The clear aim of Finland’s foreign and security policy is to prevent Finland from becoming a party to a military conflict. The operating environment has changed very rapidly in recent years and, at the same time, the borderline between internal and external security has become increasingly difficult. In this case, it is a matter of overall security, the management and enforcement of which requires cooperation between the various authorities and the examination of the relationship of competences. The resilience of the State to the crisis has not been adequately considered as a whole. This deficit must be taken into account and systematically assessed for the resilience of our society. The security report covers the examination of foreign and security policy until the middle of the next decade, that is, eight years away. In the current situation, eight years is a very long time. The committee has drawn attention to the fact that although Finland is not threatened at the moment, it is still necessary to develop its activities in such a way that threats can be answered more quickly. Examples of this include the more rapid recruitment of the reservists and the training of the conscripts for preparedness. Mr President! Although the economic situation has been challenging, the Defence Forces and other authorities have been able to carry out their duties. As stated in the report, we must ensure that, regardless of the financial situation, the authorities are given sufficient resources to ensure the safety of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u88	Madam President! As I said during the day, I was chairing this same report just over 10 years ago in the Chair of the Committee on Defence, and these key elements, which were then involved, are also a very important part of this. I am referring specifically to the country's independent defence and the defence of the military and the entire territory of the country. They are the key elements here. But even though these criteria are the same, this defence statement is more succulent. It is more considerate of new issues and, in that respect, very well prepared and almost 100 experts heard. You can easily be fond of it. And I would like to join, among other things, Mr Paatero in his very well-informed views on this content of the defence report. As far as its drafting is concerned, I would also like to refer to the committee's criticism that we are in some kind of confusion now in these reports, in their organisation. When the Internal Security Report was carried out, it did not involve parliamentary control. And quite rightly, in the view of the committee, the correct order is that there should first be foreign and security policy, then the other three, in that order, perhaps a defence report and then an internal security report and parliamentary control. It provides continuity, continuous monitoring and management. It is also essential that there are clear views and good views on our relations with Russia, the United States, NATO, the EU and the Nordic countries, especially Sweden. At that time, cooperation between Sweden began more than 10 years ago, mainly through the activities of the Coast Guard and through the Air Force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u89	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the Government's defence report and this report by the Committee on Defence, which we have completed in a spirit of good cooperation in committee. It is very important that, at national level, we adhere to the so-called basic blocks in our defence policy, i.e. we adhere to this general military duty, which Finland has been well known for in the past. We have also lived in a time when Finland has also been a little criticised for the fact that this now would be such a past world phenomenon and system. But once we have discovered that there has been a certain instability in the world and the climate of security policy has become tense, then suddenly Finland has been such a model of how well we have been able to organise our own independent and national defences, comprehensively training our military capabilities for our citizens. Even then, this active voluntary defence activity has been such an important stone base, which we want to continue to hold on to. It is also important to draw the attention of this committee to the fact that, in order to safeguard the voluntary defence of these resources as it stands and also to develop them, the government should now follow its own line and that in future the Ministry of Finance should not present this cut annually before the parliamentary budget is processed, but that these appropriations are secured for voluntary defence work. I would see that there is rather a need to increase these resources in the future. I justify this by stating clearly in the studies that Finns and women in particular do not now feel that their own skills are good enough to act in such crisis situations and exceptional circumstances, and that this capacity should therefore be improved. This issue will certainly come back to more detail in this overall strategy for the security of society, which will be updated in the autumn. I am sure that there will be a better position on this subject, and I would like to point out at this stage that it will not be forgotten that I would like the Committee on Defence to hold an open hearing on this subject. We have not yet had open hearings during this term of government. This would be a very good topic for a wider consultation and for a wider social debate on how we take care of these security skills of society also at the level of the citizen. Both at the level of the authorities and at the level of companies and organisations, this cooperation is at a good level, but at the level of the citizens we have some work to do here. I would like to open up a little of what we have also raised here at committee level in the debate: In this training of defence skills and military skills, it has often been pointed out that invitations should be extended to the whole age group and also to women. The idea in itself is a good start to the debate, but I also know from my own experience that invitations do not provide any capacity for any kind of activity, do not train in any way, but it is precisely a question of identifying what kind of military service you want and where you can be placed when you go into military service and whether you have the skills and the real desire to go there. It is not in itself desirable for us to attract a larger age group and women to the service, because we do not have the facilities to offer them at the moment. There is no such plan to increase the number of brigades or increase the number of troops in the war. So it is not intended to increase the number of soldiers at present. I do not see that this is only appropriate as an issue of equality, but that these skills should be genuinely increased for the whole age group even before the military service. This would be very logical and easy to organise at the educational stage. For example, at the latest at the second stage could be arranged such as emergency, crisis-preparing training where these skills would already be dealt with as part of school work naturally. This work is already being carried out in part, for example in some upper secondary schools such security courses are being organised by national defence organisations, and this activity could be expanded, and there is also a great deal of demand for this. These places are usually filled very quickly. It's important that it be available to everyone. I would see it even as if it were an obligation for our public sector, the state, to ensure that this education is provided to all citizens at a certain age, because, according to our constitution, every Finn has an obligation to defend the country if necessary. But at the moment we are not offering this capacity to everyone, and I would see that this is common.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u90	Madam President! According to the latest opinion poll by MTS, the will to defend the country has weakened, especially in the case of young citizens. Of course, one measurement should not yet draw too far-reaching conclusions. However, given the important importance of the will to defend the country, it is good and right that the Committee on Defence has also raised this issue with merit in its report. From the point of view of our credible defence, it is essential that Finland continues to be the country that every citizen wants to defend. For example, young people’s access to education and working life contributes to the perception that their own country is worth defending. The will to defend the country is maintained by, among other things, high-quality military and reserve training and voluntary national defence work. It is now essential for the future to identify all other possible ways of maintaining the will to defend the country and to pay serious attention to this issue, especially in the case of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u91	Madam President! The representative Juhantalo there earlier reflected on the order and structure of these reports and was on the same pace as we in the Committee on Defence. Today, this whole security package is very intertwined, and even some have pointed out the need for three separate reports. However, we have come to the conclusion that this has been a good structure because of the fact that they still have certain elements which are separate from each other, even though, on the one hand, external and internal security, on the other, are increasingly interlocking with each other today, and that joint monitoring group, the parliamentary monitoring group, would then be the sort of way in which this whole thing would then be tied together with the blue thread. The appropriations for voluntary defence work have been raised in the debate, and in the committee we have considered it necessary not to cut them in a theatrical way and to restore them in Parliament, but to keep them at the right level since the Ministry of Finance presented them. This is the President of the MTS, Mr Vikman, who spoke of this will to defend the country. Of course, the integrity of the nation, that everyone feels worthy of defending Finland, is important, but also that we have good, effective military training, and that our Defence Forces must be credible. In such a situation as perhaps now, although of course we do not have a direct threat of war when the world’s security policy situation is more tense, then, in a certain way, the possibility of that crisis may also come closer in thought and may come to the senses of whether I am finally ready. We must look for answers to these, and I hope that the MTS representative will: Under Vikman, he also wonders what the underlying factors are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u92	Mr President! The security of supply of technical equipment plays an important role in coping with the crisis in society. The country shall have the capacity to maintain the technical equipment itself. This will become more important as technology develops. More advanced systems also impose new requirements on maintenance. It is important that Finnish industry is involved in procurement. This will also ensure access to maintenance and spare parts in times of crisis. By acquiring the capacity to provide the necessary system life-cycle services in Finland, we increase the reliability of the equipment and improve domestic employment even during peacetime. As stated in the report of the Committee on Defence, the supply capacity acquired in the home country in connection with the acquisition of Hornet and Hawk has already reduced life-cycle costs by EUR 1.7 billion. In the relatively short term, our country is facing major defence reforms when both air and naval equipment are being renewed. It is clear that this new equipment will also be technically more demanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u93	Madam President! I would like to raise a few points in this defence report: First of all, Finland is well placed to respond to hybrid threats, and in this changing world it is an excellent thing. Secondly, we have a good resilience to the crisis, and that is certainly the basis of national mutual trust and spirit and, of course, the fact that all authorities work well together, crossing sector boundaries. Thirdly, it is a good thing that we have now addressed cyber security issues, and this is indeed a major change. We are really becoming dependent on digital services, information networks and systems, and so our systems are also very vulnerable. This is something to be invested in, and it has also been well taken into account in that report. This requires strong international and national cooperation, especially in the exercise and then in the exchange of information. I also welcome the cooperation with Sweden, the pursuit of something as far as possible. The Nordic value base is also a very good basis for this defence cooperation, and it is good and easy for us Finns too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u94	Mr President! Mr Heinonen considered the role of MTS in the debate on the will to defend the future and its will to defend the country. MTS will be happy to provide a forum for parliamentarians and experts to continue the reflection on the subject, and MTS will be happy to participate in it. Our credible defence requires a strong will to defend the country and, on the other hand, a strong will to defend the country requires a credible defence and its sufficient resources. These two go together. In the committee's report, the committee supports the development of voluntary military service for women, and I will continue with that in my speech. According to a report received by the committee, the number of women in voluntary military service has increased significantly in recent years. About 1,000 women are seeking employment this year and more than 8,000 women have been trained in the reserve. According to a report received by the committee, the Defence Forces do not see the need to organise invitations for women, because the male age group to be trained is sufficient to carry out the wartime tasks. However, the committee considers it important that: The Defence Forces are determined to support women's seeking voluntary military service and national defence work. National defence is a matter for the people. In addition, women’s volunteers are invariably highly motivated to apply for voluntary military service. The first step in extending invitations to women could be to send at least a letter of invitation to all women at national level. Regional experiments in the letter of invitation to women have produced very good results and increased women’s interest in voluntary military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u95	Mr President! I would like to continue with the previous speaker on the issue of women's voluntary military service, particularly as regards marketing. In this regional experiment, what was done to invite women to such invitations, according to information from the headquarters, in fact women have not sought voluntary military service since this marketing campaign. I do not in itself think it is bad that information is shared with women, but there is no correlation with seeking. That is what I wanted to say in the debate. With the voluntary military service itself, I feel that, in the past and today, women who are interested in the military service also receive sufficient information about it, for example through existing electronic means of communication, and I do not see a major problem here. It is precisely if you market a product that you do not have the opportunity to sell, that I see a great contradiction here that our military training serves precisely the purpose of society in the sense that we have a national credible defence and that people have a certain task assigned to them after the military service. At the moment, we have no place for increasing levels of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u96	Mr President! I urge Mr Jarva to take a look at the results of this test of invitation letters. It was carried out in Pirkanmaa and, according to my information, the experiment increased the number of women interested in military service. In fact, it is not even relevant whether there is an increase in the number of people interested or candidates, the essential thing is that, regardless of gender, there is a loss of timely information for the whole age group, and even women are at least informed of the possibility of voluntary military service, because now the service and timely access to it can be missed just because the timely information cannot be reached. In this respect, even if the invitation is not mandatory, a letter coming home would be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u97	Mr President! The key to sharing this information is to increase the information provided by educational institutions on how to apply for this education. In this context, I would also like to add this genuine training to these conditions of the crisis period, so that we do not simply share information about military training, which we do not need or have the possibility of increasing the number of trainings. In this context, at a time when almost everyone goes to secondary education, it would be natural to share this information in the context of the activities of educational institutions, also providing genuine benefits and educational know-how.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u98	Mr President! The idea of sharing information in educational institutions is certainly to be welcomed. However, it is an important message for society that national defence belongs to everyone, and a message that a woman has the ability to learn the skills needed in a modern army, just as a man and the differences are between individuals rather than between the sexes in principle. It is important for the Defence Forces and Finland’s defence capability that the best forces seek military service.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u99	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 7/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The debate on this subject will take place until 7 p.m. If necessary, the discussion will continue once other items in the order of business have been discussed. If the debate ends before 7.00 p.m., we shall move on to the next paragraph of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u100	Mr President! It is not an exaggeration to say that there are even the wings of history at hand — such an important reform is at stake. One can say that this is one of the most important educational policy reforms in decades. The aim of the reform is to respond to the change in working life and to reduce the regulation and bureaucracy of education and training providers. This will ensure that we have a skilled workforce in the future. The broad government proposal includes, among other things, the following measures: The barriers to education for young people and adults will be dismantled through the transition to uniform legislation. Different kinds of organisation permits will be transferred to one. Organisers may decide more freely on the allocation of training provision. The financial system will be reformed into a coherent whole. More emphasis is placed on performance and effectiveness. The studies will be expanded and better understanding of working life will be brought to them. The principle of personalisation is introduced in teaching and guidance. In addition, workplace learning will be increased. A new model of training contracts will be introduced. President! In the expert consultation, it was very clear how much reform is expected to take place in the field. The reform provides training providers with opportunities to develop their own activities and organise training. Education and labour needs will be better addressed. This makes education more appropriate and also more socially effective. Of course, when it comes to major reform, it also raises many questions. For its part, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs will try to answer those questions, in particular as regards: Firstly, the accessibility of education. There has been a lot of discussion about whether reform can provide adequate and regionally comprehensive training facilities. This has been resolved in the proposal by setting out a priority area of action for education and training providers, where it is obliged to take care of skills needs. But you have to be awake. In its statement, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore requires that the effects of reform be constantly assessed from the point of view of the accessibility of education. Secondly, the personalisation of studies. Personalisation and the student's personal curriculum are the most important issues in the whole reform. It is good that the Government decree provides quite precisely for future study plans in order to ensure equal treatment for students. The committee proposes to amend section 45, which provides for persons involved in drawing up the plan. We believe that, in the case of minors, it must be possible for guardians to participate, but this does not have to be a categorical requirement. Third, there is the sufficient amount of local education. The debate has rightly raised concerns about the adequacy of local education. However, this should not be regulated by law, because the needs of students are different. If successful, the reform ensures that students who need local education receive more of it. However, the Education Committee draws attention to the fact that a student's working week must be meaningful. The so-called "empty days" and "empty hours" must be removed in order to prepare for the work ahead. Among other things, on learning in the workplace, we say that the aim of reform is to achieve a more work-oriented education. This will be promoted by increasing workplace learning. The funding of apprenticeship training will be brought to the same level as education in the form of educational institutions. It is a huge reform of the size. In addition, a new model of education and training contracts will be introduced, which means non-employment learning. At the same time, working life is more closely involved in education through, for example, workplace evaluation. President! In addition to the above lines, the Committee on Education proposes a 29-level amendment. On the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, clarifications have been made on issues such as the organisation of dormitory activities, fees for students and student incompatibility, i.e. the Sora legislation. In addition to these, there are a number of other clarifications, a large proportion of which are of a technical nature. In addition, the Committee on Education and Rural Development considers it important that the effects of reform should be monitored particularly closely. On this basis, the report contains four statements. The aim is to ensure equal status for those studying with the first apprenticeship in different sectors of activity. On this basis, we ask the Government to submit a draft law on amendments to the Employment Contracts Act, which will ensure that this is without prejudice to the obligation to provide additional work. Secondly, on the monitoring of the impact of the financial reform, we strongly say that Parliament must be given an annual report on this, and in this context the adequacy of the basic contribution must also be assessed. Thirdly, the ministry must prepare a study on how the educational pathways of disabled students are being implemented as well as possible. We also call for greater monitoring of the effects of reform, which takes into account, among other things, the objectives set to increase access to education, the training moon and workplace learning. On the basis of this monitoring, the necessary capacity for change will be maintained. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes that the Government's proposal be approved by means of the amendments and additions described above. The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u101	Mr President! The Government's proposal for new legislation on vocational education and training is the most comprehensive reform in the history of vocational education and training. I agree with Mr Puumala's assessment in this regard. The Social Democrats broadly support the objectives of the reform. Working life orientation and a strong competence-based approach are the right directions. For example, increasing workplace learning and a more individual learning path can help young people who are poorly suited for school-based learning. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as we have heard before, also made a number of legislative proposals, but unfortunately many of the major flaws in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media have not been remedied. One of the most serious casting problems remained in the new financial system. The majority of experts suggested raising basic funding from 50% to 60. This would have provided education providers with a more stable contribution, which would have ensured adequate support and guidance for students with less learning capacity. There are also heavy clouds above the reform when the financial cuts were made in advance without a transition period quickly and massively. Now the reform is bringing a lot of additional tasks that are not being allocated the necessary additional funding. For example, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has calculated that EUR 84 million would be needed to implement the reform. I therefore believe that it is necessary to re-examine the adequacy of funding in the preparation of the next budget. Mr President! The acquisition of skills and the transfer of evidence to the workplace will significantly increase the need for guidance and evaluation resources for workplace instructors and other personnel. However, the reform does not allocate sufficient resources to support job training. My concern concerns not only job instructors but also teachers. The problem with the government's proposal is that this renewal of teaching would require a large amount of development and additional training resources, which are not practically possible in the day-to-day life of teaching. Another flaw in the draft law is that it does not contain provisions on the responsibility of the training provider for the continuous development of the skills of teachers and workplace instructors. There are now also a lot of training tasks in the workplace. I am a great deal, and we have probably all been thinking about what resources this demanding work is to be made with. In other words, a large part of the education package will be put in charge of working life. Mr President! From a social democratic point of view, the main problems mentioned here and now relate to equality in education, the quality of teaching and guidance, and the danger that good objectives towards better quality and skills will run into a lack of money. In other words, it is very difficult to carry out the reform in the midst of major financial cuts when, on the contrary, additional funding is needed. I could ask how the school's teachers and instructors have enough time for guidance at the workplace, and how the jobs are supposed to organise their own guidance without resources being allocated to it. The decline in the number of local education in vocational education and training has given rise to great concern, and we people in education and training have been very much involved in this matter in recent months, in years. Well, my concern was now over when the chairman of the committee said in his speech that the number or role of contact teaching hours was increasing, or what the verbatim wording was. That is an important issue now, and we in one committee have a lot to consider in what way it can be verified and confirmed. We also had a proposal from the opposition parties, based on a proposal from the OAJ and the Sakki Association, in which it would be more secure, but it was not now supported by a majority in the committee's vote. Also, in order to ensure equality and quality, it would have been important for us to add the idea that the organiser of education should appoint a responsible teacher for each part of the degree. In other words, this responsible teacher would have been the provider of quality education and ultimately the support and safety of the student if problems arose during the course of the studies. Mr President! There is also a serious deficiency in the fact that the reform has not been dealt with more extensively throughout the second stage. For example, the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities in its own opinion felt that legislation should have looked at and assessed more closely the whole second degree together, in the future working life, as good general education, language skills, interaction skills — I am happy to use the word 'professional education' — and from this window, increasing cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education would have been a step towards the professional competence of the future. Incentives should have been given to the educational institution level in order to give students more real opportunities to combine their studies. Well, in this regard too, we put forward a proposal to the government to add to this effectiveness funding the completion of secondary courses and its inclusion in this effectiveness funding. That would have been, and it is very important, and Parliament will then be able to take a position on it tomorrow when the paragraphs are put to the vote. Mr President! In the proposal, one major change in education will bring this new so-called training agreement. It is a question of learning in the workplace. We do not believe that it is right, acceptable that the entire degree should be completed by means of a training contract. I understand that the original idea was that, after six months for example, learning should be based on apprenticeships, and I believe that this is the direction that needs to be supported. Mr President! The opposition has a common objection to this government proposal. I would be happy to say to you that a little more good common will would have been able to achieve a unanimous outcome on this. The big problems now relate to this basic funding, especially this education agreement, secondary issues. There are 12 of these articles and there are 8 statements, of which perhaps the most important statement is Declaration 1, which really wants to provide additional resources for the implementation of this reform for next year, and we want to believe in this context that the magnitude of EUR 84 million proposed by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is the right one. Then, in Declaration 2, we stress that Parliament requires a rapid assessment of the effectiveness of reform from the point of view of equality and equality in education. Then, personally, I would like to make this statement 4 here: 'The Commission requires that the common substances be subject to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u102	At this point, the actual speeches, Mr Andersson and Mr Nylander, and then the Minister's speech, and then we go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u103	Mr President! This government's proposal for vocational training reform is indeed an ambitious project and it is very welcome that attention and resources be paid to the development of vocational education and training. Vocational education and training is a popular and important form of education among young people in Finland, which for too long was treated only as a quick way to work. Vocational education and training should be developed taking into account the different needs of both young and adult students. It is therefore not just a way to work, but, in the case of young people, vocational education and training must not only give everyone an equal opportunity to grow into good, balanced and civilised people and members of society, as is well stated in this draft law. For adults, vocational education and training must provide a flexible way of updating their own skills and qualifications in the profession at any stage of life and career. At the same time, the existing strengths of the Finnish education system must be ensured. Vocational education and training must provide both formal and effective post-graduate qualifications for all students so that, if they wish, they can continue their studies at higher education level. As stated in the previous speech, vocational training must also meet the changed demands of working life. There is no longer just one specific profession to be trained, but general education and the general knowledge base, the ability to embrace new and re-training and the ability to perform different tasks in their own field are increasingly important. Globalisation and digitalisation in the labour and industrial fabric are already a reality in the workplace. In manufacturing industries, workers need to know English, and both health centres and paper mills need to know how to use different software in a manner that is used to. The main problem with the government's whole reform of vocational education and training in the left-wing union aspect is the uncertainty as to how sounding objectives in themselves will be achieved in the reality in which, as a result of major financial cuts in vocational education and training institutions, we are now living. Personalisation of studies is a good example: When well implemented, it can provide the opportunity for students to receive the kind of education they feel they need. Thus, the personal competence development plan can include the personal needs of everyone in contact education, workplace learning and, for example, special support. In the world of scarce resources, however, personalisation can in the worst case scenario mean a deterioration in the quality of teaching. This would mean too little contact teaching and teaching as online courses, distance learning or on-the-job learning, because there is no economic opportunity to offer students any alternative. For this reason, we would have liked more precise quantitative regulation to be included in the law in order to ensure adequate local education, guidance and support. The government now seems confident that with reform, this current development towards a deterioration in the quality of education will, as it were, be corrected on its own, but there is no guarantee of that. That is why monitoring and evaluating the implementation of this reform is really essential. Mr President! Another problem with the reform is this proposed financing model. However, despite the fact that the preparation of the reform has been exceptionally extensive and inclusive, according to both the minister and the rapporteurs, the government has decided to present a financing model which in practice has not been supported by any of the contributors in dealing with this bill. This is truly amazing given the importance of the financing model and funding for all vocational training and the organiser field. The main problem, therefore, is that basic funding is too low, only 50%. One commentator, among other things, stated that when fixed costs, i.e. rents and wages, represent around two thirds of total costs, this proposed financing model creates a permanent state of uncertainty and makes training and personnel planning difficult and also challenging for training providers to anticipate. A great many contributors expressed their fear that the excessive share of performance funding will lead to a development in which vocational institutions are primarily seeking to reach well-performing and rapidly progressing students. As stated in the opposition's protest, this financing model will certainly increase the effectiveness of education, but the reverse is an increase in the risk of selectivity. Mr President! One of the objectives of reform is also to increase learning in the workplace. It is now being proposed as a means of an education agreement, and this new concept has given rise to a lot of confusion in the field. This is, therefore, a question of working learning as it is today. The number and duration of periods of in-work learning will be made more flexible, but no new qualitative aspects of this training agreement will in practice be included. There is also the risk of insufficient attention being paid to guidance and the quality of learning in the workplace. The opposition suggested limiting the maximum duration of the training contract to six months, for example, in order not to create situations in which the whole training is actually carried out through work-based learning, without at some point forming an employment-based apprenticeship. Above all, the problem with a contract of education is that it does not involve any qualitative changes in relation to current job learning. It is therefore also unlikely that the number of places of work to study will suddenly increase as a result of this change. One option could have been a more in-depth reform, which would also have agreed on the use of working time for workplace instructors, financial compensation and the resources to be allocated to the training of workplace instructors. In this case, it would also have been justified to allow training organisers to pay training allowances to the workplace to ensure that the student is guided. Another option would have been the wider introduction of the 2+1 model piloted in educational institutions. I also regret the fact that the reform put forward unanimously by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities to the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy regarding the protection of staff representatives' rights of access to information about those studying in the workplace through the training agreement was not progressed and was not taken into account in the report of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for example, in the form of a statement. Mr President! In connection with the parliamentary examination of the bill, there was also a clear need to find out how well young people with disabilities currently enjoy equal access to education at second level. The hearings expressed hopes for the development of VALMA and TELMA education, for example, by setting the student's vocational education and training target for TELMA training, and by providing a better way forward to work and to study for the student's needs and prerequisites. It was also hoped that, in line with the principles of inclusion, the skills of specialised vocational institutions in the teaching of students in particular need of support would be better used by all vocational institutions in order to achieve inclusion and equality in practice at educational level. I am pleased that the committee's report drew attention to this issue by way of a statement and I hope that the Minister will also be active in dealing with this issue. Finally, Mr President, the Left Alliance is therefore concerned that the major cuts that have been made in the past threaten to water down the good objectives of the reform and undermine the right of students to quality contact teaching and teamwork for learning. Our parliamentary group has proposed cancelling these cuts, and it is also essential that sufficient resources are made available to implement the reform. In addition to this, it would have been absolutely essential for this to be achieved by:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u104	Värderade Talman! Vi behandlar en en enorm reform, en av de viktigaste utbildningspolitiska reformerna under den bull perioden. Det finns mycket bra i den arv reformen i printip, men det finns risker i och med att nedskärningarna är massiva, och mycket av hur väl den arv reformen kommenter att utfalla handlar givetvis om hur man genomför reformen i våra yrkesskolor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u105	Mr President! Dear Parliament! Finland needs a skilled workforce and we are proud of our professionals. Young and adult students need strong general knowledge and skills alongside their skills, which will then also carry life forward in the fast transformation of the world and renew that skills in working life and in later life paths. Thank you for your cooperation in this reform of vocational education and training. I'm glad we're already at this point. As has been said in previous speakers' excellent speeches, reform is the biggest overall reform of education since the late 1990s. It has been done in excellent cooperation with numerous professionals, field operators, experts. More than a thousand vocational training experts from both the field and the various stakeholders have participated in the preparatory work in various workshops. This work has been valuable and has led to the result that we are now discussing, that is to say, it has been done together in the spirit of the centenary reform. In the reform of vocational education and training, the whole of vocational education and training is being renewed to the present and the future. Border fences between young people and adults will be removed in order to make better use of resources and skills. Knowledge paths are individualized so that everyone can find a more suitable way to learn. Knowledge-based skills will be given as the main starting point for vocational education and training, so that all activities aim at increasing and developing the skills of students. There is a need to reform vocational education and training because the needs of working life are changing faster than ever, or alternatively it can be said that the change will probably never be as slow as it is now. Many professions disappear, but at the same time new ones are constantly emerging. It is no longer enough for students to be carefully trained in one profession, but our professionals must have the widest possible knowledge base and the ability to learn new things in the course of their careers. The current system does not fully allow or encourage flexible and individual paths to build study paths for future working life. We all know, too, that there is an accumulation of poverty and that some young people are becoming marginalised at an early stage. All young people need to find a place to study immediately after comprehensive school, and the Finnish month of education must be adhered to. Fortunately, it is now almost fully realised and we are still working together on it. On the other hand, the challenge has moved to the next stage, which is that of dropping out of education and training is also a problem in vocational education and training, especially in vocational education and training. Our common task, using this reform and the new tools it brings, is to reduce the number of interruptions. The reform brings tools and financial incentives to this challenge. What, then, is being reformed? The committee has done a good job of going through and also making more specific changes to the legislation. But in the big picture, the regulations on professional law are compiled in this reform into a single law. The Act on Vocational Education and Training and the Act on Vocational Adult Education are repealed. Part of labour market training is transferred to the Ministry of Education and Culture and into the legislation of vocational education and training. Vocational education and training moves towards a single evidence-based and independent way of acquiring skills to complete a degree. The system of evidence-based qualifications under the existing legislation on vocational adult education and training and the method of basic vocational education and training will be abolished. This reform clarifies the system of qualifications. In the future, we will have fewer and better qualifications that meet the needs of the working and business world. The possibilities for selection within qualifications are increasing, different individual paths and interesting new skills combinations are emerging. The eligibility for further study is strictly maintained. It is a basic element of vocational education and training that is our international strength. Vocational education and training will continue to provide further education in order to make it possible to move to higher education studies and must also be effective. Continuous application becomes the main route for applying to education. It is also one way of preventing exclusion and suspension, the possibility of changing the sector in the middle if it turns out that the sector itself has not been found immediately. This will enable flexible and rapid access to education. As I said, the education guarantee is secured: every person who completes comprehensive school will have a place of education. In addition, we will continue to have a joint application which will ensure that the entire age group will continue to be brought into education and training, as well as to move to the second stage. In the future, there will be one evidence-based way to complete a degree. With the reform, individual study paths will be built for everyone. Reform brings more diverse learning environments and more workplace-led learning. This increase in workplace learning aims, among other things, to improve motivation for learning, to increase the opportunity for practical learning in the natural environment, i.e. working life, and to enable students to get a foot in the door to work. It provides employers with a recruitment channel, access to skilled labour, and in general the idea of close cooperation between education providers and working life helps us to strengthen the employment of students and offers the possibility that the education system will certainly train professionals for the needs of working life. With the reform, we will have one permit for the organisation of qualifications and training. Currently, a renewal of the organisation permits is under way. The financial system that encourages results and effectiveness is perhaps one of the biggest reform areas. The financial system will therefore be made more supportive and will include elements that can also prevent exclusion. In addition, the efficiency financing element provides an incentive for the funding system to pay attention to the employment of students. In other words, the organisers of the education are rewarded for the fact that students, after receiving the training, are employed in working life. In addition, labour market training will be part of new vocational training. We need this element now that the economy is growing and a skilled workforce is needed in Finland, as well as flexible, fast training paths to develop their own professional skills. This reform will make it possible to export education more strongly, and there is a great deal of demand for that Finnish vocational education and training world wide. The speeches drew attention to many of the details which the committee has carefully considered, and one of the most important is teaching. In other words, this reform of vocational education and training will also change and reform the role of the teacher, and teachers will play a crucial role so that the reform of vocational education and training can be implemented and its objectives can be achieved. That is why the government is also, and the Ministry, prepared for the training of teachers and the development of their skills in order to achieve the objectives of reform. In this context, there are two larger entities under way as part of the work of the Teacher Education Forum, in which vocational education and training is also strongly involved. Similarly, in its mid-term review, the government decided to finance the implementation of this reform. We know that the economic situation has been tough and challenging in vocational education and training, and that is why we believe that, in particular, the implementation phase must be invested in, both through teacher training and then in order to get this reform well under way when it is hopefully adopted by Parliament. Mr Gustafsson drew attention to the fact that high schools are not forgotten in reforms. Absolutely not. In fact, the government has also launched a reform of the upper secondary school in its mid-term session, and the aim is that during this term of government we should be able to carry the reform through to the second stage of the reform as a whole. So this vocational education reform is the first part, and now high school comes next on the table. I would also like to make it known to Parliament that I have met representatives of disability organisations today and that we have discussed it, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u106	All right, now is the opportunity to ask for a 1-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u107	Mr. Speaker! There is a classic setting here when you think about this reform: Is the cup half full, half empty, or does the cup go down? Do you believe in this reform or do you not believe it? Do we believe in young people? Do we believe in teachers? This is a huge challenge for everyone, it is obvious, and I am not saying that there are right or wrong answers to whether it is believed, but we have left the government parties with the idea that we believe in young people, we believe in the Finnish education system, we believe in teachers, we believe that we can do the top of the world, we can do the top of the world, because it is also quite unique on a global scale when we move on to a knowledge-based model that is supported by funding, which supports and responds to the transformation of working life. In that sense, we are making a unique reform, and I believe and hope that the years will show that our faith was not in vain but had a strong margin.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u108	Mr President! In the Minister's speech, I drew attention to the fact that you said that this continuous search is the main route. I would be careful now to highlight this for a number of reasons. Continuous search means that the school comes weekly, monthly, daily new student youth and these require the reception staff to be introduced and so on, and if this now goes on like this through as the committee proposes, then the resources are not much more coming. And when this is such a big deal, then we should be sure that it is emphasised that young people are seeking mainly in the traditional way when schools end, and not in such a way that we are now highlighting a continuous search. Then you mentioned that high school is becoming an overall reform. Well, that was actually the answer to the fact that these should have been done together, or at least in closer cooperation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u109	Mr President! I am sure everyone will agree that this reform is needed. The opposition, too, in its own protest on many points, notes that the situation in vocational training has been weak for a long time and, although money has been added to it on some points, it has not increased the number of local education, on the contrary. And here, among other things, it is stated that the drastic cuts in vocational education and training decided upon in the 2013 spending limits debate will make the situation even worse, so that reference is made to previous cuts. I personally believe that this is not a reason to withdraw this reform, that we have had to make these cuts, but, quite the opposite, that is a reason to do this reform. This reform has been carried out, as we have heard, in an exceptionally good work on the field, and has also been amended in many respects both during the referral and then during the committee consultation. I believe that we are now ready to accept this in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u110	Mr President! The Committee on Education and Training listened widely to the experts, and indeed the fact that none of the experts supported this funding model because it was felt that this basic funding was too small and that there was, as it were, a baked-in mechanism which in the future will increase inequality between educational institutions, between the fields of study and between students because this encourages students to become students of the kind of well-performing students who graduate quickly. There is a great deal of concern about what will happen to students who are less able in the future. In this context, I would have taken the opportunity to ask the Minister when the previous speech so highly praised the way in which the government has heard in a good spirit and so on: how is it possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u111	President! Yesterday in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy was a big day when this report was finalised. The matter long awaited by the training field is coming to the finish line. This is an example of good lawmaking, which, unfortunately, today is far from being taken for granted. The consultation round has been extensive and the Committee on Culture also consulted widely with experts. We, too, have had doubts about the preparation of this basic funding at ministerial level, and this criticism was also expressed by the committee, but this statement is binding enough, and whether such a term can be used like 'hard', in view of the fact that this 50% basic funding is only being transferred to this 50% base.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u112	Mr President! Mr Multala drew important attention to this issue when he told of this long trend in the decline in local education, and it is quite true that it has also been a trend in times when resources have been added to vocational education and training. But this is precisely the reason why the opposition would have liked to see some stronger instruments to ensure that the level of local education is adequate for students who need it. Now the content and definition of this personal study development plan remains at the level of the regulations, and there is still no precise information on their content. But I would also like to hear the Minister's answers to the point raised by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, namely that this basic funding is too low. By the way, when this preparation appears to have sought as broad a consensus as possible and taking into account the views of experts and interested parties, how can it be that it is precisely in the financial model that a solution is reached?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u113	Mr President! This really is an historic reform. The class of greatness may not quite come out of how much of this has been discussed in public. This is a really big deal. Vocational education is an important part of our society. Handprints and their skills are visible everywhere, and working life cooperation, the regional impact is also considerable. Vocational training is also a safety net that nobody should fall through. In this respect, the Social Democrats' election programme, in which 270 million people would have been cut from vocational training, which is tens of millions more than is now being cut, must be taken into account, and yet, in two years' time, it is hoped that the cuts in our order of magnitude would not have taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u114	Mr President! Reform's objectives are to be welcomed, but it will be very difficult to implement them at the same time as large savings. I just spoke to a professional teacher who I knew, and she told me that a teacher had previously been assigned one hour per week for guidance in the workplace, which was enough for initial training, mid-term and final evaluation, as well as for guidance and teacher guidance. As a result of these savings of EUR 190 million, the hours of guidance on work learning have now halved. The hours are barely enough for the initial discussion and the final evaluation. On the other hand, job instructors do not have training in the steering role, let alone time to direct young beginners in the performance of their duties. In many educational institutions, guidance on workplace learning is carried out by means of a telephone or e-mail. However, the evaluation of the student is the responsibility of the educational institution. I would like to ask the Minister: How do you believe that increasing the number of people learning at work will be successful with such scarce resources? Are we going to get into a ditch now?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u115	Värderade Talman! Som jag konstateride så finns det mycket bra och värt att stöda i den ox reformen, men riskerna kommerat att realiseras nu när man börjar genomföra den ox reformen, och de riskerna med genomförandet i samband med de massiva nedskärningar som rikatas mot yrkestbildningen blir ganska stora. Min fråga lyder: Hur kommer Ministeriet och Utbildningsstyrelsen att stöda det ox genomförandet? For Det sku, reserve wasteviktigt att veta.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u116	Mr President! The reform of vocational education and training has been expected and, according to a wide range of experts and consultations, it is necessary. There are pressure to raise basic funding, it has to be granted. The reform of vocational education and training also raises questions in practical implementation. The reform emphasises the importance of the student's personal learning path. Each student’s knowledge and experience will be identified and a personal curriculum will be tailored to him or her and the necessary evaluation will be organised. The emphasis is on doing practical things. All of this requires a lot of carefully planned guidance. It is essential to provide sufficient support for students to successfully complete their studies. However, resources are limited, and only practice will show whether young people can be provided with sufficient support to complete new-style studies. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the possibilities for allocating additional resources to student support and student guidance have been considered,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u117	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for making dozens of changes to this government proposal which takes account of the criticism of this reform in the field. However, I would like to point out that there is one important area where work has not been completed, particularly as regards the regional organisation of vocational training. The committee would like to draw attention to the fact that the expert hearing proposed an amendment to Article 30 of the VAT Act to add a private provider of vocational training alongside universities and universities of applied sciences, and the Committee on Education then notes that the amendment to Article 30 of the VAT Act is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance. But it is good to say that, ladies and gentlemen, this is such a big deal that it should have been ensured that the committee, unanimously, has also secured the status of these institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u118	Mr President! In a more familiar way, as is also said in the field, this is now becoming a model for genuinely responding to the change in working life and to making working life and education more responsive. Young people and graduates of vocational education and training have had a real problem in not having sufficient skills to cope with working life. Employers have also received a lot of feedback on this, and in practice many have had to be re-educated in the workplace. It is important that more practical learning takes place in the workplace. This is also what responds to the concern about the reduction in local lessons. Resources can be directed in a more efficient way. As some students focus more on studying at the workplace, more contact teaching can be offered at educational institutions. It is also important that, once the network of educational institutions and organisers has already intensified in many regions, young people now get closer to those jobs, to learn about those jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u119	Mr President! Congressman Puumala called for faith in this reform. Quite a lot of the government's major reforms want us from the opposition only to have the right attitude and to have faith in things, and things will be cleared up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u120	Mr President! The accessibility of vocational education and training is a concern far from Eastern and Northern Finland. In sparsely populated areas, the decline in the younger age groups continues and there is less demand for education in the neighbouring region, which then forces the providers of education to reduce the number of units, even to stop training, i.e. we are in such a cycle. So there may not be a school anywhere near here. But as a result of this reform, as education is increasingly organised in workplaces and digital learning environments, education and learning are not tied to that physical school building or school office. This learning in the workplace may now make it possible for students to be trained even near the home at the place where they like to work, and just as the minister said just now, at the same time there is a foot between the door and the job that comes to it. In other words, this may be an opportunity for those jobs that are far away from the educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u121	Mr President! There are really good elements in reforming vocational training. Getting closer to working life and learning at work is a good goal. But it is worth asking whether our working life is ready for this reform, because, for example, during the hearing of the Committee on Labour, the majority of the students were concerned that some of the students could not find the places to study at work. Especially when it comes to more vulnerable groups and special pupils, it is difficult to find these channels of learning at work, and also when you are in smaller localities, there are quite few jobs where you can reach the learning period for yourself, when you are in a rather different position around Finland. In this same reform, labour market policy training will, as it were, become part of standard education, and in order to keep pace with the speed, flexibility and regional disparities, I hope that the Minister will really look at this implementation at the beginning. The big risk is that this is going to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u122	Mr President! Representative Eloranta took a very good example of what should be better prepared for when we go on to make such a great reform. The effectiveness of learning in employment, i.e. learning in that work, is the responsibility of the organiser of the training. If we look at long distances and at our highly developed SME sector where jobs are created, it is only because this responsible body is able to enable it to learn at work in those fragmented regions that there is a great deal of time between the different jobs involved. I would say that in sparsely populated areas or in less populated regions, the time spent on teaching trips is certainly 70 %, which makes it very small enough to allow these pupils to learn at work there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u123	Mr President! There is always a certain degree of uncertainty and difficulty with regard to such major reforms as we are now experiencing, and this reform is obviously also a major challenge for leadership in terms of the success of the reform. However, it is now necessary to correct the misconception which has been cultivated here that all the rapporteurs have agreed that the basic funding is insufficient. Yes, there were those who felt that this was good, and there were those who did not say anything about it. Of course, we must admit that there were also a majority of those who felt that the share of basic funding should be increased. But the aim of this funding is, of course, to guide education towards areas where employment conditions are good and, on the other hand, to reward and encourage schools, educational institutions to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u124	Mr President! If you try a little to catch up on this financial system, to create a little debattise, not to talk past each other: this funding system is based on the fact that the basic funding is half and then there is also funding that encourages completion of the degree, completion of the part of the degree and then access to work and further studies. I think they are quite good targets. In that way, I do little to challenge those who say that this is wrong: you would, in any case, in your own protest, accept 40% other than basic funding, and in that way you obviously do not disagree with this basic idea, but you estimate that if it were increased by 10%, it would change significantly. I'm afraid the big picture wouldn't change much. I would also remind you that each year, in accordance with the committee's statement, this issue will be examined. In the following years, the share of basic funding shall be:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u125	Looks like there's still a need for a debut. But we're going to take a minister here, three minutes, and then we're going to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u126	Mr President! If I am to sum up the debate, it seems that we are very much in agreement about the need for reform in this Chamber and also about the big picture of the basics of reform, the unified system, the knowledge-based approach and the individual paths of students. Vocational education and training needs this reform, and the field of vocational education and training, the providers of education, are also very committed to this big picture. I also know that reform in many directions across Finland is already very much awaited. Of course, there are further details on which the various rapporteurs have disagreed, and I can see that there are different opinions in this Chamber on some of the details of the reform. The chairman of the committee raised the issue of this financial system. In fact, the big picture is that in the future half of the funding will become so-called basic funding, but in addition to that, elements have been baked into the financial system to prevent, for example, the drop-out and exclusion of education. The performance funding element is there because it specifically rewards and encourages the providers of education to take care of the students and that the studies will be completed. In other words, the organiser of the education receives funding for qualifications and parts of the degree. And then it has a 15 per cent effectiveness financing element, which means that the providers of education receive funding for the fact that students are employed or transferred to further studies, i.e. that they are of high quality and achieve the objectives set for them. That is our big goal, together to ensure that young people and adults also receive the kind of education that can cope with the future of working life and respond to the needs of working life, and this effectiveness funding brings an element to this. Many elements have been introduced into this whole reform to draw attention to the fact that students are well cared for, that they receive guidance, that they receive high-quality education. A great deal has also been invested in quality systems and quality in this reform phase. There are elements here that are much better able to ensure quality than in the past. The decrease in local education is a concern that has become a lot of feedback. Teachers are concerned about it, students are concerned and parents are concerned. That is what I would like to draw attention to in future: that savings should be sought, not primarily from teaching or teachers, but from structures. This reform will, among other things, bring about the elimination of overlaps and the possibility of looking for that effect in preference and then investing those resources in teaching. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u127	Then we'll take at least one more debatable round.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u128	Mr President! I would have come back to this basic funding from that point of view — I think Mr Andersson also referred to it — that, when two thirds of the costs are fixed, the wages go to the majority, and the basic funding is 50%, and there is such a state of uncertainty in the institution, and anyone who understands education, its development, understands that it is not the best incentive for the development of teaching work and so on. From this point of view, this basic funding should have been at least the 60. Many suggested that it should be 70, but it was thought that the 60 now would be such that it would nevertheless raise the level of safety. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u129	All right, let's hold on to this minute so that as many people as possible can talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u130	President! Indeed, it must be acknowledged that the danger exists in this model of basic funding, that it leads to a qualification. We cannot deny that, but I believe that this statement is strong, and we must keep a close eye on this issue and at the same time assess the adequacy of the basic contribution, as that statement says. What is also important in our report is that we should not talk about postgraduate qualifications at an ideal level, but that a person who is a graduate of vocational education really has the right postgraduate ability, that he really can also carry out further studies. Here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u131	Mr President! To answer Mrs Puumala: The problem from the point of view of the opposition is not that the funding of performance and effectiveness is part of this,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u132	Chairman! Yes, this really is a big concern and a big question about this particular financing model. Yes, the majority of the commentators felt that this was a very fatal problem in this law, that the level of basic funding is so low that it makes the design of teaching difficult to predict and uncertain and indeed also creates this kind of inequality constantly creating a structure here. Compared to, for example, the training of such non-recurring cuts here as it is hit by this kind of permanent differential structure, a permanent uncertainty-generating financing model. This is very problematic and I therefore wondered why the Minister, in his own presentation, did not present this model at all, if you think this is so good. However, I am sure that you are familiar with the strong criticisms of this financial model that have emerged during the consultation. I also wonder what Mr Puumala's reaction will be. But you've been, haven't you?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u133	Mr President! I am sure many people know that I sympathise with the idea that the basic contribution could have been even higher. As I explained, each year that will then be considered as being the subject of a statement. There is plenty of time to react, starting with very moderate 95% basic funding. But what I questioned a little about your argument was that you are, after all, prepared to accept 40% of non-basic funding. That's a huge change in size. That's what you're ready for, but that threshold, it goes right there. What's it based on, that it's right there?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u136	All right, and now we are expanding the debate so that those Members who have not received the floor so far will also be able to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u137	Mr President! This is a reform that really looks good on paper. But there are things that worry me. One of them is equality. If the locality, in large Ostrobothnia or Lapland, does not have a vocational institution, there are probably no jobs there either, but the pupils go to another locality. How, Minister, are you thinking of taking care of the housing of these students in another place? Who's gonna pay for it? Where do they live? How do they get there? It should be borne in mind that those who decide on their primary school are 16 years old, and they are primarily affected by this reform. I have not seen the answer to this question anywhere. My second concern is that there is a risk of this distorting the labour market. When we go a few years ahead, there will be plenty of those final quarter students who already master its work well. They're gonna be teachers for the next few years, aren't they? Is there a risk of no longer having to hire workers after that?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u138	Mr President! There has now been a lot of discussion about this financial system. I would still have moved that attention to this particular funding for effectiveness. It is precisely the elements of this pass and post-graduate employment. Also, I believe, the role of this placement in further studies is present there. I personally see that this has good effects. Here are the fears of whether this will lead to a degree. Rather, I think that, unfortunately, now that we have had training programmes of this kind in the field of vocational education and training, which are quite popular but are not employable, I think it is very important that this funding system also guides those training providers to target training in areas where there is good employment rather than in areas where there is good employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u139	Mr President! There is hardly anyone in this Chamber who disagrees that this reform is not necessary. Unfortunately, however, there have been serious shortcomings in this bill. And while taking into account the huge savings in vocational education and training, there is no need to worry about the quality of education either. One of the major questions is whether there will be adequate further learning opportunities for all; whether there will be enough study places for young adults without vocational training, who will have a huge number; whether this funding system will guide educational institutions into the manufacturing of qualifications at the expense of the quality of education; and how teachers and staff will be able to carry this reform forward with these scarce resources. I really hope for the best, but I myself am a professional teacher and I have had a lot of discussions on this issue with former colleagues, and I have to say that there are a lot of things I really worry about.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u140	Mr President! What is the basis for the opposition's belief in the 60% basic funding? Well, it is based solely and purely on the countless professionals, the docents of all the world that we still tend to believe in. For example, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the Teachers' Trade Union, Akava and so on — all of them believe that a basic 60% contribution is needed. As a professional teacher, too, I believe in it and my faith is sufficient to ensure that active, conscientious, active students and students will continue to find their place and be well prepared for working life, but my concern is for those young people at risk of exclusion who will receive less local education and also less funding. In fact, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has put this in the strictest terms: it fears even the creation of elite schools, especially in areas where there are many providers of education, for example in Uusimaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u141	Mr President! Indeed, the committee and the minister have been at the forefront of a major reform which, unfortunately, has been overshadowed and overshadowed by other reforms, more well-known reforms. However, this necessary reform will provide opportunities for, among other things, a reduction in the administrative burden if adult and youth education can be combined. This verification of general qualifications for further education is certainly also an important attraction, as is this personalization, for the whole of vocational education and training. However, the question arises: is it possible to secure training places in all areas in a regional and comprehensive way? I myself am concerned, among other things, about the natural resources sector and other expensive fields of education. I would also like to ask the Minister: when the change in working life is so well-known, and that is what was discussed here yesterday for a long time,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u142	Mr President! This exercise on the development of vocational education and training was somehow off track at the point where 190 million were taken out of this activity in advance before any kind of development activity, in which case at least we have had to lay off teachers who could have done the development work, and on the other hand we have reduced these lessons from the pupils so that my own godfather has been studying himself for weeks at the age of 16. One particular question that concerns me, in addition to this funding, is how can it be thought that there is an obligation to take part in this exercise, not only in terms of its training but also in terms of the assessment of those qualifications. If you think about the organisation of education and training, there are not enough jobs in many sectors close to them, their skills may not be sufficient for all parts of the study, and thirdly: what compensation and what number of employees would they be able to respond to this, because that would require quite a lot of additional resources — for example, the sudden entry of a single restaurant line into the labour market in a small municipality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u143	Mr President! The educational situation of young people in need of special support varies a great deal across Finland, and, as we know, the unfortunate fact is that these young people are 16 years old and need special support and have to move away from home to obtain a vocational qualification, and unfortunately there are very few of these alternatives to vocational qualifications for them. Now this proposal will bring them no correction whatsoever. During the last term of the government, a study was carried out in the Ministry specifically for these young people, and unfortunately this work was lost in the last few metres. Now here the committee has drawn attention to it and it is starting to prepare new kinds of studies again, and the Minister has just said this, and I would like to ask the Minister. Several studies have been carried out during the last period — I myself have been involved in many of them and presenting them to different parts of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u144	Mr President! The organisation of vocational education and training in a more flexible way and taking greater account of each’s needs has not brought about widespread opposition here. All the more so, cross-referral positions have been presented on the funding system and its level. There is hardly any agreement on the adequacy of the level of funding between the government parties and the opposition, especially since there seems to be no consensus as to whether the proposed system fulfils the objectives set for it, namely whether it safeguards the organisation of education and, in particular, whether it encourages the organisers to take effective action. However, it is worth noting that the proposed change in the percentages of funding elements will take place over a long transitional period, which will give the organisers of training time to react and possibly renew their activities. It is also essential that, in accordance with the statement, the Ministry of Education and Culture will monitor the functioning of the financing model and assess the adequacy of basic funding during that transitional period and report annually to the Committee on Education and Culture in accordance with the opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u145	Mr President! There has been a great deal of concern here about the eligibility for further education, and I myself am concerned about it, especially about the protection of general education materials. In this reform, underlining the focus on working life and reducing local education and moving learning more and more to workplaces, it is very important to ensure that those graduating into the profession are able to continue their studies and have the real capacity to enter and succeed in higher education. Workplace instructors play a key role in this, and they need to be strongly trained and guided in the performance of this task. Teachers also need to work hard to support and guide students. The key role here is also in general subjects, language, mathematical, communication studies, i.e. how concretely will it be ensured that the general education of young people also takes place in vocational education and training after this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u146	Mr President! The representative of Puumala is now dramatizing this basic funding quite a bit. We asked in committee how the experts had come to this point, that they were presenting 60%. They replied that this increases the predictability to the extent that they, as experts, ended up presenting this to us, and why should we not believe their practical expertise? But, Mr President, another issue that is of great concern: if the student has completed most of the degree in the workplace, then how in practice to secure further study qualifications will be very strict in terms of quality requirements for learning in the workplace. How is this matter directed and monitored?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u148	Mr President! There may have been some misunderstandings in this debate about what is happening in those regions, particularly in sparsely populated areas, where the network of educational institutions has already become more acute — for example, in Kainuusa, we have practically only local education in one locality — but then there is a significant shortage of experts, a shortage of labour. At the moment, we are not getting enough people from vocational schools to graduate, and there are areas where there should clearly be more experts. There is a bit of a misconception here that jobs are not available. What has also been difficult and the problem with vocational education and training is that it has been very important to stop, which has told us about motivation and the way in which education is organised that it needs to be changed. In this statement on basic funding, it is indeed important that the committee raised it and proposed that Parliament be subject to annual monitoring by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u149	Mr President! Indeed, a major change to the past is that learning takes place more and more in the workplace as a result of reform, and it should not be forgotten that in initial vocational training, students usually start at the age of 15 to 16, with a total lack of experience in the area of work and working in the community. At the workplace, however, the student is expected to be motivated and interested in taking up the job enthusiastically. This often requires a teacher to support and encourage the student to cooperate with the staff at the workplace and possibly with other students. If the student does not adapt to the practice of the place of study in the workplace, it may be the interruption of the period and its transition to another date or even the interruption of studies. I would ask the Minister for Education again: how do you believe that more work-based learning will be successful with these weakened resources? The teacher will no longer have enough guidance time, as I said in the previous speeches, that it has already halved from one hour to half an hour a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u150	Mr President! I understand very well that this financial debate is taking place here, namely that the financing model is not very simple. The second reason is that there have been no such financing models and calculations available for this big change, which would have been seen by the providers of education and training as to what might happen to them in the future. But there is an element built here that impact funding can then be used to influence. So I see that it is an honour for the organiser of education and, for the sake of funding, it is important that the education is of high quality and that the students receive the necessary knowledge and skills or real skills to be able to find employment and also to go to further studies, which means that money comes through it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u151	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about this. There have been questions about the month of education, about the ability to continue learning, which is a very good term. Indeed, during the hearings, it became clear that the challenge of vocational education and training often lies in particular with students' mathematical and scientific skills and knowledge. I personally would like to highlight not only this aspect of vocational education and training, but also this aspect of general education and the strengthening of skills and knowledge, which now remains at least at the same level or even slightly strengthened in this reform, but also the basic school, which is a very important part of the reform. We need to be better able to ensure that students who come from comprehensive school and move to vocational education have the necessary knowledge and skills to proceed to further studies even after vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u152	Allow me to add the following answers: Mr Andersson, Mr Gustafsson, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Puumala. Then the Minister's reply and then the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u153	Mr President! To reply to Mrs Puumala: the majority of the contributors did indeed propose a 60% basic contribution. At least one very rational argument that was put forward relates specifically to the proportion of these fixed costs, namely that it would increase predictability if the basic contribution were closer to what the wage and other fixed costs represent of all the resources used. As far as further learning is concerned, I myself would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order to ensure further learning ability, the scope of these general education courses and the safeguarding of local education in this context is crucial. I think there is concern, among other things, as to whether the increase in learning in the workplace will then take place at the expense of some students, as it were, of these general education studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u154	Mr President! In honour of the President, I read the following in a written statement by the President of the Sastamala Joint Municipal Authority in Lahti: "The reform lacks a comprehensive impact assessment. It is impossible to assess future funding on the basis of a draft law. Funding must ensure an adequate share of basic funding so that the organiser of education can anticipate the future also from a financial point of view. In terms of the implementation of the training guarantee, the increase in basic funding to 60% is seen as of paramount importance, despite the funding model that emphasises employment and the transition to further studies." So the head of the Sastamala Joint Municipal Authority, and he is quite right to raise this month of education to this point, because the better basic funding will enable these young people who can be trained there to take care of and support those whose learning conditions are not so good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u155	Mr President! This law on vocational education and training is the largest such reform of education policy in Finland for twenty years, and if I myself were a member of the government party, I would not be much proud of the fact that, in the context of this regulation, there has been no concern for the rather unanimous view of experts as to how this bill should be corrected. I am also very concerned about the fact that there is no provision for the implementation of this law, as it were, of the funds proposed by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, for example. For example, the additional training of teachers, or the guidance of students in the workplace, is completely empty in the sense that there is no budget for them, but the Minister did not mention these in his own presentation, which I find very worrying. But I would indeed ask the Minister how you will respond to this excellent question by Mr Nylander, how to ensure that this postgraduate qualification in practice is ensured if, in principle, it is possible to complete vocational training through chained training agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u156	Once again, Mr Puumala, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u157	Mr. Speaker! We really cannot make a fat fight over this basic funding. My intention was precisely the opposite, to tell you that we are surprisingly close,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u160	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u161	Mr President! That is right, there was no fat argument, and I believe that the field of vocational training is very pleased about it. The important thing is that the reform goes forward. The fact that our debattled debate on whether basic funding represents 50% or 60% of the funding model at least tells me that the big picture of reform is shared and that we are very much in agreement on the basic lines. The financial model itself became very diverse in its extensive and inclusive preparation and then in the consultation, and there were different views on percentages. And what we came up with is a financing model that rewards quality and good work. That is the way it should be financed. In other words, there are elements that ensure continuity in the form of basic funding: there is an element that encourages the prevention of exclusion and the reduction of suspensions and the completion of education, and then the element that ensures the transition to work, the transition to further studies, ensures quality through this effectiveness funding. In addition, there is a long transition period in the financing model, which will allow training providers to adapt to the new funding model in peace and to reverse their course if necessary in order to ensure that the funding continues to be secured. And the fact that the funding model is rewarding — and I repeat it — quality and good work is exactly the goal we want to achieve. Every major reform that is done always involves uncertainty, and there are always questions to which there is also a need to return. That is why it is extremely important, just as Parliament requires, that we closely monitor the implementation of the reform and make changes to it if necessary. It is an obvious part and will be invested very strongly in the ministry. Similarly, the government is prepared to support the successful implementation of the reform by investing in teacher training, which is at the very heart of it. We need to involve our teachers in this reform and they deserve further training. Similarly, the government has invested EUR 15 million twice, i.e. next year and the following year, in support of reform implementation. It can be used specifically to inform and train teachers and then to involve them in working life, to digitise projects that support the success of the process of personalisation, because it is at the heart of this reform, and so on. This is an important part, and I am very pleased that these additional resources have been provided. Thank you for the fact that Mr Multala has raised here what is happening before the transition to vocational training. In other words, it is very important for us to look at the whole educational path, the whole system: that early childhood education and pre-school education, basic education provide a broad range of general education and knowledge, skills and skills, which also carry on vocational studies and ensure that there will be vocational training in the future, everyone would come with sufficient basic skills and skills and that the whole training path would be in order. Of course, this also applies to the transition from vocational education to further education, and its possibility must be both possible and effective. So the student must genuinely have that opportunity to go to further studies. Basic vocational qualifications will continue to have common qualifications, i.e. so-called general elements, whose scope will even be slightly increased from now on. This is very important because the PIAAC study, which evaluates the competence of adults, has shown that many adults have shortcomings in ict skills, language skills, mathematical skills and mother tongue, even in reading and writing skills. This is something we must definitely invest in at the same time as adults participate in vocational education and training. Thank you again. Time is running out, but I thank Parliament for the debate, I thank Parliament for its cooperation and I wish everyone a very good Midsummer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u163	Mr President! As has been said here, this is a necessary reform, but unfortunately there are a number of shortcomings here. In this speech, I will focus mainly on the issues raised in the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. Firstly, financial system coefficients can lead to undesirable effects. There has been a lot of talk here about this financial system. Now 50 per cent is basic funding and the remaining 50 per cent comes from completion of qualifications and their components, employment, further studies after training and feedback received. This performance-oriented approach can guide training providers to manufacturing qualifications and performances at the expense of quality. The educational institution may also be tempted to modify the selection criteria in such a way as to favour students who are best placed to pass education quickly and successfully. I am particularly concerned about young adults without vocational training, with whom we have a huge number. Where is the motivation for the educational institution to choose them as students if young people who have just finished comprehensive school are on better study readiness? In addition, the emphasis on employment favours educational institutions located in low unemployment areas and can thus strengthen the regional concentration of education. In order to remedy these shortcomings, the share of basic funding should be raised. It is particularly important to ensure that special support is provided to students who need access to their studies, either by raising basic funding or by other financial incentives. Students in need of special support and special needs often also need more local education and personal guidance. Administrative integration of vocational education and training for young people and adults must also take into account the different needs for support and guidance for young people and adults. In addition to the social task and the training of professional workers, vocational education and training is also an educational task for young people. The aim of the training is also to provide students with the necessary skills to develop and further study. Reducing resources has meant a reduction in teachers and lessons in many educational institutions and could pose a serious threat to the achievement of the above objectives. In the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, we expressed particular concern about labour market training and its budget. In the future, the Ministry of Education and Culture will decide the number of student years. Hopefully, sufficient money will be made available for this, because labour market training will ensure the availability of skilled labour, ease the problem of matching and prevent further unemployment. Until now, labour market training has been a flexible way of dealing with these issues in the regions. The risk now is that this flexibility will disappear with the reform. It would be important to ensure that vocational training continues to remain an integral part of the labour market policy mix. For this reason, the employment and economic administration must have a legal opportunity to influence and participate in the process of issuing permits for organising state-funded labour market training, financing decisions and the substantive and qualitative orientation of the training to be carried out in the regions. Flexibility in the regulation of the number of student years during the financial year is also necessary in order to guide training, for example, to regions affected by structural change in a flexible way. Finally, Mr President, a word on training in the workplace: This reform will increase the focus on working life and on learning in the workplace: training will be organised in the context of practical tasks as apprenticeships and training on the basis of a training contract. The training contract replaces existing work-based learning. The provision does not define learning and apprenticeships in the training agreement, which may lead to students performing the same or similar tasks in the workplace through a training contract and an apprenticeship. This puts students in a different position because they are not paid. Moreover, there is no compensation to the employer for training based on a training contract other than for students eligible for special support, but for apprenticeships, compensation is paid to the employer if the cost of studying at the workplace is incurred by the employer. According to reports received in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, compensation for costs affects employers' ability to offer training places. In view of the above reasons, it would be important to clarify the differences between the apprenticeship and the training contract and to reassess how meaningful such a distinction is. The effectiveness of the education allowance for the provision of study places must also be carefully monitored and consideration given to the wider introduction of the education allowance. Workplace guidance plays an important role in student learning and commitment to the field. That is why the role of workplace instructors is important and they need to be adequately trained in this process of change. In addition, teachers must have sufficient time and resources to work alongside students in the workplace to support, guide and teach students. Remote control is not sufficient, guidance cannot be performed via the Internet or by the phone. The big question is, how can teachers work with students in the workplace and at the same time guide and teach them after the huge savings in vocational education and training?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u164	Mr President! Good Minister and good colleagues! The reform of vocational education and training is one of the key projects of our country's government and a good indication that we must be prepared to reform and update our society quite extensively. Vocational education and training must definitely be reformed. In fact, it would certainly have been the right time for this reform before, but one can say that it is better late than never. The reform of vocational education and training is necessary, inter alia, because of the changes and changes in working life. We still need new skills and new skills. In fact, even in this Chamber, when we have listened to debates over the years, when they are mirrored, for example, from the time of their own parliamentary career, there have also been discussions about professions that did not exist 10 to 15 years ago. This reflects the fact that we are constantly coming up with new important tasks and we need to find professionals for these tasks in the future. In this presentation, as a teacher, I welcome the emphasis on each student as an individual, i.e. a personal learning path, a knowledge-based approach and, above all, a customer-oriented approach to each student as an individual. Practical action will be strengthened, it is important, it will also increase learning in the workplace, and as has been well mentioned in this debate, this will also require a great deal of effort from these companies. In fact, in previous discussions around vocational education and training from time to time, it has been somewhat surprising that the same people, depending on the debate, raise or criticise the fact that local education has been reduced, and at the same time consider it important to strengthen work learning. I personally do not see them as mutually exclusive, but I see them primarily as mutually supportive, so that we need to have a strong, good local education that contributes to the learning in the workplace so that we cannot outsource the teaching task to the workplace, but so that companies can use their skills in everyday life and strengthen the skills they have acquired at the school. In other words, local education or workplace learning are not mutually exclusive or contradictory, but are specifically complementary when it works in the best possible way. The Minister of Education has just spoken about strengthening the skills of teachers, and that is one very important issue with him. In time, I myself was allowed to be vice-president of the board of one vocational school for a longer time, and I already remember the concern that, in terms of teachers, they lost contact with the everyday life which, in fact, the work in a particular field was in everyday life — for example, the big changes that took place in the water and sewerage and renovation sectors — and thus the teaching has been diversified and also increased by the fact that teachers attend working life cycles. This reform will also reform the funding, operating processes, the qualifications system and the organisational structure of education and training, all of which are important elements in this as a whole. There was also the idea of a training contract. I also welcome it very much in addition to the apprenticeship agreement, precisely because we have to respond to different situations, so that we can offer different young people, different factors also the opportunity to learn through doing things. Of course, the bigger change in this training agreement is that it is not a form of employment contract study, and this will, of course, open up more opportunities for all young people not to be caught up in this situation, at least. It is therefore important to look for good ways, flexible means, different learners and different fields. Mr President! Finally, the starting points. It is important to ensure that we have a sufficient number of places to start, including where we start up in sectors where employment is taking place. In other words, the requirement or criterion cannot simply be what the young people want to do. Of course, it is one important thing, but we decision-makers and so-called adults also need to see that we do not train young people in areas where they do not have a genuine job opportunity. Another important thing is to make sure that students and students meet. We still have areas where there are not enough places for everyone to start and, on the other hand, there are areas where we do not have places to start. Finding a balance here is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u165	Mr President! 100,000 young people under 30 years of age and 200,000 adults have no secondary education. According to an OECD study, more than one fifth of Finnish men aged 20 to 24 are unemployed or not in education. As a whole, 15 per cent of the final age group of comprehensive school does not graduate from upper secondary school or vocational education in Finland. Only young people at primary level have a very weak outlook. Their employment rate remains only 40% low. The labour market simply no longer has much to do today without at least secondary education. There is a clear and direct link between education and future employment opportunities for young people. Mr President! Creative destruction means structural change, where old structures break down and new replacements are created with new technologies and new operating models, while productivity increases. Jobs are disappearing, but the losses are beginning to turn into new jobs in new areas. This is reflected today in the change in the structure of working life as a result of globalisation, digitalisation and robotisation. Over 36 per cent of jobs will be threatened by technological progress over the next two decades. Jobs die, but new ones are born to replace them. A person may have to be trained in more than one profession during his life and change fields several times. Lifetime education has become a necessity. Mr President! Does the reform of vocational education and training respond to these challenges of today and the future, to the fact that every young person and adult in Finland is going to have at least a secondary degree, and to the fact that, with the ever-changing working life, lifelong education and training has become a prerequisite for us to be able to cope with tough international competition? The objectives of vocational education and training reform are ambitious and it is easy to agree with them. We need a reform. It is to be welcomed that all vocational qualifications are knowledge-based and that qualifications are carried out in a uniform manner. Similarly, a good goal is to personalise the studies for each learner, taking into account and identifying previous skills, while planning the acquisition of missing skills and the necessary support measures. It is also good that the focus of the financial system is shifted to focus on performance and the effectiveness of education rather than on time spent in education. I believe that this will encourage the organiser of education to take care of the students in such a way that they actually receive the necessary support to complete the degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u168	Mr President! Of course we all hope that the speech we have just heard will not be the future of vocational education and training, and that is why we need this reform so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u173	Mr President! This reform of secondary vocational education and training, which is under discussion, is the biggest reform of education policy for 20 years and affects an estimated 300,000 students. Approximately half of comprehensive school leavers continue vocational education and training and, in addition, an estimated 150,000 adults are studying in vocational adult education. The reform will increasingly shift vocational education and training to workplaces. According to the law, it is even possible to complete the entire curriculum at various workplaces by means of so-called training contracts, which can therefore be chained. This jeopardises the student’s ability to learn and receive quality education when the entire degree can be completed without even receiving a pedagogically qualified teacher’s education at a vocational school. At this point, I would like to question the fact that this is a way of reducing drop-outs in vocational education and training, as the Minister said he believes. This reform includes a financing model, according to which educational institutions will be increasingly rewarded for so-called performances in the future. This encourages educational institutions to pick raisins, i.e. to favour students who are self-sustaining in student selections, while students with a lower average who are most in need of a place to study are increasingly disadvantaged. Concerns are also strong about students who need special support in the future. As indicated in the previous debate, in the expert consultation of the Committee on Education and Culture, the experts also found this financing model difficult because it is difficult to predict and uncertain and makes the planning of education more difficult for the providers of education. The latest Pisa study shows that learning differences between pupils and educational institutions are growing further. The impact of the background on education is increasing. Tackling educational inequalities should be the most important issue of education policy, to which every reform of education, particularly such a major one, should respond in this time period. However, the government is reforming vocational education and training in exactly the opposite direction. The legislator concerned about equality in education should do everything in his power to stop the discrimination in education. On the contrary, the government is now reforming vocational education and training in a way that, according to experts, will further increase regional inequalities and inequalities between students and educational institutions. The reform of vocational education and training, as proposed by the government, is therefore a major threat to the realisation of cultural fundamental rights. The objective of the reform to develop education in a student-oriented direction is in itself very much to be welcomed, but the government's cuts in education and the above-mentioned funding model make it impossible to implement it. A successful reform would require significant additional investment in vocational education and training, not cuts. The hearings revealed that, for example, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has calculated that the implementation of this reform would require an additional EUR 84 million, which is therefore not coming. In 2017, the Government will cut a total of EUR 190 million from vocational education and training, and the drastic savings are already visible in the field of vocational education and training. Educational institutions have closed down, local education has collapsed and thousands of teachers have been laid off. Government policy has weakened learning outcomes, increased the number of drop-outs and made education more difficult to achieve. Regional inequality has increased. In some areas, the scarcity of local education already endangers occupational safety. It is a frightening idea that 40% of giant surgeries are still not being carried out. Those studying for a profession have no guarantee that they will receive the local education and guidance they need at the workplace or at an educational institution. There is no budget for the development of workplace training and no training for workplace instructors. It is not difficult to predict that even at the workplace the best will be able to cope and at work learning places to get independent, well-performing students. Overall, it seems strongly that the government has completely abandoned the education month for young people. There are hardly any jobs for all young people, as there is already a shortage of jobs in many sectors and cities. Sticking to the training guarantee would require that every young person is guaranteed a place of study, sufficient lessons and quality guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u174	Madam President! I think there has been a good and thorough debate here on this reform of education. I followed it carefully in my office and said that the actual professionals who dedicated themselves to the industry have come here to empty their workshops in a very diverse way, and the minister also sat here for a long time to listen. The fact is that the level of Finnish education is already falling, so it falls every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u177	President! Thank you, Mr Laukkanen, for your very good speech. This concern expressed by the representative about the two-story population is justified, even though it has been aggravated, because now the problem is what we are voting on tomorrow, that there is no ceiling for this training agreement. In theory, a young person can study with a degree agreement at the workplace. Attention has been paid to this. And consider how it carries out the teaching and study of these common subjects, which are this professional education: mathematics, science, Finnish language, mother tongue and so on. So, in this sense, this is more than a place for careful follow-up so that this does not happen. It should be the case that the education contract is a few months, then the apprenticeship is introduced, and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u178	Mr President! In fact, the training contract is a few months long at a time, because this matter has been solved by the parts of the degree, which means that the training contract is always awarded to the part of the degree based on that personal competence development programme. That way, every student gets a pretty tailor-made package in it. I would not be very concerned about that, but of course it must be monitored, as Mr Gustafsson said. However, in the end, this whole of work-based learning must be quite moderate, so I do not think that everyone is going to rush into work right now, because there is no sudden rise in the number of jobs created by magic, but it is perhaps more of a tool for the organiser of education to consider whether a training agreement would be a good option for this particular young person or a good alternative to apprenticeship training. In that way I believe that those quantities will increase, but they will probably be quite moderate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u179	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u180	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, there was a very long and thorough discussion about the transformation of work and how Finnish work and working life are changing. In fact, at the end of the day, it could be said that only change will be permanent. Of course, the work will remain, but it will change and change its shape, and on that basis, I think it is logical that today we are discussing the reform of vocational training, which is now in the final stages of legislation. I would like to start by commenting on this debate, which has taken place here in connection with these drop-outs of education. That is a very serious problem. In certain educational institutions it has so far been a bigger problem than in others. The differences between educational institutions are quite large in some places. Of course, many things have an impact on this, and now, of course, because of these budget cuts, it is clear that the resources in the whole field will be weakened, but we must remember that not everything is always about the resources at the level of everyday life: management, organisation, how the whole organisation, the whole institution, the teaching staff, the rest of the staff are committed to supporting these young people in particular, to taking them through training, how it is organised with other authorities, whether it has taken advantage of, for example, this excellent Ohjaamo type of activity in my opinion. All I want to say here is that, in addition to resources, many other things can also be a factor behind these interruptions. It is extremely important to ensure comprehensive and diverse regional education and, of course, I personally consider it important that young people continue to have the opportunity to train as closely as possible to their region of origin. For years now, vocational training has been taking place in regional centres, and this has resulted, among other things, in what Mr Jarva said earlier, that there is even a shortage of skilled workers in certain regions, rural areas generally regarded as unemployment regions. I therefore believe that the training agreement can be a source of relief because it allows certain parts of the degree to be completed in working life, as mentioned above, and therefore also for young people to establish their working life links, and even in their own region, if a suitable place of work can be found there. Indeed, this increase in job learning is a long-term objective of the centre, and it is good that it is now being implemented. It requires, however, that companies be involved when the practical implementation of this reform starts to take place. Even though that law is laid down here in Parliament and the Ministry then leaves the necessary guidelines for its implementation in that field, there in the field it is, after all, a day-to-day implementation that will take place, and it will require companies in the area where vocational training is produced to join in. In connection with the preparation of this reform, there has been interaction with industry and business associations, and I think that there has been a very positive attitude towards this reform. Now that ball is really at the end of business. The ability to take students to complete these parts of the degree in both the education contract and apprenticeship training would be expected to be found. This reform emphasises the importance of taking better account of the student's personal competence and these individual study paths. This individualization is, in my opinion, one of the best pieces of this reform, the most delicious pieces of this reform. It will make education more flexible, and the time taken to complete studies may also become shorter and shorter, and I believe that this will be the case, especially for adult students and other students who are updating their skills. This individualisation also leads to the attention of these young people at risk of exclusion, as long as they are adapted at local level to achieve the best possible results. I also attach importance to cooperation between the whole of secondary education and, of course, between secondary and higher education. I therefore believe that cooperation between these two should be increased and lowered, and I do not see that at least this reform would put administrative or technical obstacles in it. It is therefore important for students to be able to make more flexible use of the studies offered by different education providers. This is an extremely important issue in sparsely populated areas where maintaining overlapping resources does not make sense. For example, cooperation between upper secondary school education and vocational education is quite reasonable and should be pursued more locally.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u183	Mr President! Finnish education must be continuously developed to meet the needs of a rapidly changing working life. It is a good thing that the government is determined to push ahead with the fundamental reform of vocational education and training as a key project. The legal reform is of a large scale and its impact on the future of Finland is indeed significant. As a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I have been able to follow closely the preparation of the reform of vocational education and training and have heard the opinions of a large number of experts in this regard. There has been a great deal of groundwork for reform, which is necessary in order for vocational training to be able to provide young people and parents with good opportunities for living and working lives in the future. The reform aims at updating the training programmes, improving the compatibility of working life and education, reducing overlaps, saving time and money for administration, and removing unnecessary barriers to training. The core of the reform of vocational education and training is to make education as a whole more responsive to the skills needs of the future. One of the key elements of the reform is the integrated personalisation process, which identifies and recognises the student's previous competence, plans to acquire new skills, demonstrate and evaluate competence and the necessary support measures. In addition, practical work will be emphasised in the demonstration of competence. Training providers will also be given more freedom of hand with regard to the targeting of education provision and learning environments. In addition to apprenticeship training, there will be training based on a training contract, which will replace the current form of work-based learning. Many expert opinions raised a number of concerns regarding the practical impact of the reform. One of the central concerns was the success of the students. The Committee on Education also stresses the importance of the role of teachers and tutors for the success of the reform. Similarly, the committee considers that listening to students is essential in areas such as motivation and learning environments. I believe it is important to look at the reform with an open mind, but to be aware of the challenges of a wide-ranging change and to ensure an in-depth assessment and monitoring of the impact of the reforms. It must also be understood that the best results will not be achieved overnight, but that time will have to be set aside for the change to take place. Of course, good preparation will contribute to this. Mr President! I think it is a very good thing to emphasise the importance of practical action. What a person knows determines competence rather than the extent to which knowledge has been achieved. Much of the professions can be learned best through practical work. The lack of formal qualifications, even if the practical skills of the person are sufficient and the motivation is in order, may sometimes be exhausted by employment. In such a case, it seems a waste of time to put a master on the school bench for a long time to learn again what he knows. There is a need to invest in and develop cooperation with companies in finding traineeships. In the context of the reform, there has been a great deal of distortion of the training allowance. I personally would see it as a good solution for certain sectors, such as the forestry and civil engineering sectors, but I also understand the practical problems. Despite more detailed problems, the reform is very welcome and I believe it will bring a good drag and the right way to do it in the field of vocational education and training. In conclusion, however, I cannot fail to mention the pressure on the increase in basic funding. This issue was raised in a number of expert opinions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u184	Madam President! The Government's proposal to reform vocational education and training in Finland is extremely topical. What was taught in vocational schools ten years ago, whether youth or adult education, the world has changed tremendously to this day. Today we are talking about robotics and we are preparing for artificial intelligence to enter the market. It comes fast, whether we like it or not. In any case, it will and will revolutionise the productive life, everyday life and education, and it will be happy to do so, so that education and training will first come in order to get experts in these new professions. In today's world, professions are lost every day and new ones are born. What happened ten years ago may not have much use for today. In any case, this new government proposal is extremely good and combines vocational education and training for both young people and adults. This combination is extremely important because today's learning in Finland is lifelong. One who graduates today knows by the time he is working that during his career he will many times receive further education. This legislative reform responds very well to this issue. I attach great importance to the fact that the Committee on Education has done a very good job here and has heard many experts, has had long discussions and has put this report in the form that I think it is at least good. Education must be updated and the tools and possibilities and legal provisions necessary for this must be created in such a way that a new period of time begins when this law comes into force, it serves precisely better-quality graduates for working life. When these two separate laws have been combined, the benefits will also be achieved by creating the event of life-time learning quite naturally. It is no longer surprising that there are young people who are starting studies there, or those who have been in the same line for 10 to 20 years. That is an extremely good thing. Until now, these have been kept separate, and I have heard negative comments about whether I had to go to college at an old age. This new bill harmonises this work and in a way makes studying for all these age groups quite equal. I think it is a very big thing. Vocational qualifications become competence-based, and both these training agreements and apprenticeships serve this competence-based approach. Finland has a good tradition of apprenticeship training and good results have been achieved through it. At the beginning of this year, I had the honour of visiting two different vocational institutes to learn how to teach. The second was a forestry school in the artery. Forest machinery drivers are trained there — both motorists, multi-purpose drivers and professionals specialising in the transport of timber — and then there were training for truckers and ground-building training. And what was noteworthy about this education was that they are well ahead of their own time in that school because they have taken vocational learning, working learning, to the utmost. It's really admirable. It may be said that the spirit of this law had been seized in that school, although at that moment the only thing that knew about this law was that it was coming. A visit to the artery taught me that young people were really eager to learn in a genuine working environment: for example, multipurpose machinery drivers and forest machine drivers were on Metsähallitus’s land at the stamps to thin the forest or to cut down on the renewal while truckers were driving wood there. So there was a genuine activity already under way, in line with the spirit of this new law. I don't know if they've anticipated that this kind of law is coming. In the future, vocational education and training will take place in the spirit of the new law through the personalisation process, in which case the starting points of each student will be carefully taken into account. On this particular trip to the school early in the year, I noticed the interesting phenomenon that, of course, there are students from different backgrounds on the move. There were extremely successful, very highly motivated students there, but there were some young people who were at risk of exclusion, who have nevertheless been brought into vocational training, and they had been tailored to their own curriculum, according to which they were moving forward. I thought it was really great, and the teachers really said that when you get the job done and the student gets excited about teaching and, above all, about the work when you go to the practical workplaces, you get the best result. This gave me strong faith that even though young people have difficulties, they can always be overcome. That is why I salute this reform of the law with great joy. It is extremely important that there should now be more handicrafts in Finland. We have, as we have seen in recent days, export statistics on good growth, gross domestic product is growing, approaching up to 3%, which is a very fine performance. But there are many areas where there are currently no professionals, and now that the education laws are being reformed, there is probably something good we can do. Finally, Mr President, I hope that, now that this law is put into practice and then put to work in the field, there will be so much reform at the same time that, for example, much of what has been said, the educational programmes which have also emerged in this debate, which have too many classes, will be lost. This problem too must be recognised and intensified so that the money invested is spent efficiently and at the same time good professionals are created.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u185	Congressman Kiviranta. — After Mr Kiviranta's speech, the debate will then be suspended and we will return to it later in this sitting.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u186	Mr President! The government's project to reform secondary education has progressed well and, as the Committee on Education and Rural Development notes in its report, the preparation of legislation has been wide-ranging. As a result of this change, education will be carried out in the same way, whether it is at the youth level or as an adult student. The way in which studies will be carried out in the future will naturally result in savings in the simplification of the system while at the same time harmonising the level of education. The implementation of such studies will also facilitate the development of education and training to meet the requirements of working life. It is important for the student that the previously acquired competence is recognised and recognised regardless of the way it is acquired. This will increase the flexibility in the conduct of studies and speed up studies, as skills acquired in working life, for example, will be taken into account in the personalisation of studies. At the same time, this will help to increase equality between pupils of different backgrounds and enable them to be trained in a new profession if necessary. Finnish education is well-known in the world. There are already a number of projects in various educational institutions where Finnish education is exported abroad. The law governing the operation will make training exports widely available and will also make them a wider export product. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that participation in training exports does not undermine the conditions for organising other training according to the training authorisation. Mr President! In an expert consultation with the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it was proposed to amend Article 30 of the VAT Act to add a private provider of vocational training alongside universities and universities of applied sciences. The Education Committee notes that the amendment to Section 30 of the VAT Act is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The change under preparation is very good because vocational training uses a wide range of tools and equipment, the purchase price of which may be a threshold for an educational institution to organise training. VAT compensation provides private vocational institutions with better opportunities to acquire the necessary teaching tools and to make them equal to other educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u187	This part of the debate is suspended and will continue at this part-session once the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u188	We shall now proceed to the 4th reading of this item, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u189	Mr President! Without addressing what was discussed in the previous debate, I agree that the best forces must always be mobilised. The Government's proposal for a law on vocational education and certain related laws before us is important, important and historically very challenging. Perhaps I will start with more of the problems I see in this proposal, which are close to practice, and I hope that they can be taken into account in different ways in the future. We in the working community should not have inequalities in similar tasks between people with the same level of learning and competence. And, at the moment, when learning and apprenticeships are not defined in the legislation, it may lead to a situation in which learners at a similar level of competence work similarly, a situation becomes such an unequal situation that one does it without pay and the other does it without pay. I believe that in future there will certainly be instruments to determine whether an education contract is, however, an apprenticeship-like training contract, which then becomes the subject of a so-called contract of employment. It is important to note that we have different sectors and that they are in a slightly different position. In other areas, in particular where the cost of capital of equipment is high, there will be considerable challenges in implementing apprenticeships in the workplace, but in particular education and training contracts. In this country, 1100 students study on the forest machine side every year. At the same time, we have 1,300 employers in this country, 60% of whom only have one forestry machine, so it is quite impossible to see how one can be trained at the workplace of an entrepreneur without society offering any compensation. It would therefore be important to see that schools and companies could jointly make machine, equipment purchases, and when it is the lack of productivity that will undoubtedly come in these areas of learning in the workplace and learning in the workplace, it could be possible to make it possible for companies to take that student under the training agreement, but rather, of course, in the workplace, to take that student to the workplace. This was pointed out by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities and saw this as an important point, but the Committee on Education did not mention it in its own report, while taking into account the view of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on the concern that it is precisely here on the machine and especially on the forestry machine side that these training places are not available, and in its own opinion it proposed that, if necessary, the training allowance should also be introduced in the context of the training agreement, for example on a discretionary basis. The only thing the Committee on Education and Training recorded there was that if there were special learning difficulties. But the issue here is that, here on the machine, in the capital-intensive business sector, this support is needed by companies already at the point where it is generally possible to learn at the workplace. We have the opportunity to organise it, and various projects are currently under way in which this type of joint venture model will be presented, which will enable companies to commit themselves to taking apprentices into the company and thereby commit the employer to enable them to learn at work in practice. Representative Myllykoski has a dream that is being carried out somewhere in Finland, that we can buy a laurel on behalf of the school and the company commits that 8 hours a day will be given guidance at the workplace and the rest of 16 hours will be available to the company on that device. This will enable us to promote concrete learning in the workplace under normal conditions and, at the same time, to develop a working culture for both these learners and others. The specific problem I see here is that it is the organiser of education that is responsible for the learning of the pupils on the education agreement, and the resource that will be hard for these cuts in sparsely populated and less populated areas is that the organiser of education has no chance of coping with the work required: the organiser of education has a duty to ensure that the learning at work actually takes place. This is made particularly difficult by the lack of resources to ensure that workplace instructors have sufficient pedagogical skills to enable them to learn at work, especially in the case of students in need of special support. In this respect, it is not enough for a person to be able to teach how to use the lathes. This will involve pupils who need special support, and it should also be possible to do so here. With these limited resources, this really cannot be possible, and this should be the focus. Mr President! Finally, the possibility of further training must be guaranteed, but it should also be noted that a representative of Parliament with such learning difficulties personally wishes to say in this connection that I wanted to get a job in the profession and I do not want this opportunity to become such an arrangement that this person, who is capable of doing the work required by the profession, is proactive and excellent in its own work, job training will be extended free of charge at the workplace because he does not yet have further study opportunities. In my opinion, we should allow grace to pass on the right to the point that if a girl or a boy, a kinesthetic learner who does not like a theory, has learned a profession in his work, then he should be given the opportunity if his professional capacity has been able to show that it is quickly made an apprenticeship model, and not because of this condition of further training, that he can be used free of charge at the workplace. I want our young people to no longer be faced with the situation that only those who already have a diploma or a student certificate in their pocket can get into apprenticeship training in larger institutions. That is how we have closed 20 years for those young people who, for some reason, are not able to learn theoretical training and who are not interested in it, but who are very good learners in the workplace and who are therefore placed in the profession. At this point I hope that this issue will also be taken into account so that our young people, who are not theoretically such top students, will not be raised, but will be allowed access to the profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u190	President! Representative Myllykoski, as an expert in the technology industry and metal work, made a very interesting and expert speech. I agree with the view that those young people who clearly want that vocational qualification — this is what must be pursued. Then, alongside it, there is this opportunity for further studies, and that too must be safeguarded. I think this is possible now. There are also representatives of the government parties who are in a way able to defend the virtues of this reform, which are that these vocational qualifications can be completed individually in this way and in this way. It secures professionalism for many of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u191	Mr President! This reform of vocational education and training is precisely addressing this challenge, which has been mentioned above. In other words, one way is, for example, this strong model of personalisation, which is being created and imported into vocational education and training right now. In other words, the students are at the centre of the project and we are thinking about a reasonable progression and a knowledge-based approach, so that they can respond exactly to the challenges of working life. And specifically identified study paths there are intended to be promoted within the framework of this law. Then we'll also lower the route there to the various study sessions. In other words, this reform is the answer to this very question.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u192	Mr President! Here I would also like to continue this debate on the effects of this reform and also on this pay-out and whether students are now having free work. In other words, in the past the problem of vocational education and training has been that it has not provided enough opportunities for precisely those students who would have liked to learn their vocational qualifications in practice in working life. This is going to be easier now. The apprenticeship model remains very much in employment, a good model. But this training agreement, which comes alongside it, is also important in the sense that it specifically lowers the threshold for the employer to take up learning. It is also limited to the part of the degree, i.e. it is not possible to continue using a student as a free labour force at the workplace. These agreements will not be concluded with such an employer, neither will the students or the providers of education do so if such exploitation occurs. And no employer, an entrepreneur, wants a reputation like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u193	One last comment, Mrs Myllykoski, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u194	Mr President! Thank you. I have already taken the floor not to prolong this, at least from my side. Yes, the question is that I wanted to bring those things, concrete fears, what I have in connection with this. In my opinion, these principles, how to proceed, are very good here, and it is very good that part-time qualifications can be completed, so to speak, especially in apprenticeship training, when at the moment that particular module of the apprenticeship has not had a qualification status. And if this now makes it possible, as I have wanted to understand, then this is a particularly good step forward, moving from one profession to another, to respond to rapid industrial restructuring. We must give special thanks for this in this preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u195	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u196	Mr President! As has already been said many times today, the reform of vocational education and training is the biggest reform of the scale for two decades. This is a very expected and necessary reform. It responds more flexibly to the changing training needs of working life, as professions disappear and new ones come. Education must be able to respond more quickly to the skills needs of the future. Adults apply for education through continuous application flexibly throughout the year, but the national joint application process will remain in the spring, mainly for those who leave their comprehensive school and who do not have a vocational qualification. This reform offers a lot of opportunities for both students and education providers. In the future, the student could acquire skills in a flexible way that suits himself best and as much as he or she needs, referring to the recent discussion. The skills he lacks, he could acquire. This sums up studies and therefore shortens training periods, especially for adult college students, I believe. In this afternoon's discussions, reference has been made to the ability of students entering vocational education to study further. Indeed, those who have completed basic education have very different skills, especially in equipment, mathematics and mother tongue, Finnish. The majority of pupils entering vocational education have studied the curriculum in accordance with the objectives of general education. However, their skills vary from five to ten in the number of the certificate. In addition, a growing number of schoolchildren who have had personal goals in accordance with the decision on special education, which usually do not reach the objectives of general education, receive a certificate of graduation each year. Their skills are assessed in accordance with their own goals, and they have a so - called star review in the testimony. In the three-step support of basic education, the objectives of the intensified support student may also have been set by weight, which may mean that the skills are very weak even if the certificate has an accepted grade. Students' well-various skills are reflected in vocational education and training as a wide range of needs for support. The individual study path makes student guidance and support even more important. In the future, all students will have their own personal competence development plan, which explains and recognises the skills and skills deficiencies previously acquired by the student, including the skills gaps that have been left behind in basic education. Competence acquired in voluntary activities and hobbies, for example, can also be better taken into account. The development plan will consider what kind of skills the student needs and how to acquire skills in different learning environments. At the same time, the necessary support measures are planned for successful studies. The plan is prepared by a teacher or director together with the student. Parents of students under 18 years of age must have the opportunity to participate in the plan. The qualifications will be more extensive in the future. The student has more choice to specialise in within the degree, and this postgraduate ability will continue to be maintained. The aim must be to ensure that education does not only provide formal post-graduate qualifications, but also that it is genuinely capable of further learning. Training at the workplace is organised as an apprenticeship contract based on a fixed-term contract of employment or as a training contract without a contract of employment which replaces existing job learning. It is possible to combine these two agreements flexibly. In future, skills will be shown in all vocational qualifications by showing them, as a general rule, in the workplace or in workplace-like learning environments in practical positions. Mr President! This afternoon there was also a great deal of talk about the financing of vocational education and training. In the future, there will be a single financial system that will encourage the reduction of early school leaving, the increase in learning in the workplace, the reduction of training periods and the targeting of training in sectors with labour needs. This method of calculating funding is not really simple, and it involves a wide range of concerns on the part of the providers of education. At least this concern is not dispelled by the lack of model calculations. However, a long transition period will make the situation easier: final funding will not be available until 2022. I myself am concerned about the accessibility of vocational education and training. In sparsely populated areas, the decline in the younger age groups continues and therefore the demand for education is decreasing. As a result, training providers have had to and will probably have to change the school network in the future, and as a result, a professional school may no longer be found close to home. But this reform will also bring new opportunities for this, as education will increasingly take place in workplaces and perhaps in digital learning environments, where education is not linked to the physical location of the institution or office. Learning at the workplace may open up opportunities for education close to the home, when the student is already walking between the door of the workplace during his or her studies. At the same time, the company offers access to a skilled employee through a training contract or apprenticeship contract. This reform will lighten the standards. All vocational education and training will be regulated by a single permit. The freedom of education organisers to organise education is increasing and this will reduce the duplication of administration and the development of different plans, which will free up the working hours of principals and teachers from the administration to education in educational institutions. The processes of acquiring and demonstrating knowledge will also be clarified. This is indeed a major change in vocational education and training. It is therefore very important that the reform is closely monitored and, if necessary, measures are taken without delay to clarify or amend the legislative package under consideration. Finally, the feedback received from training providers on this report within 24 hours has been very constructive and positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u197	Mr President! This is a really great, big reform, and I am really relieved and pleased that we are at this stage. 550 pages of legal text, over 100 experts. Here, too, I would like to thank the opposition for their excellent sparring and good cooperation in the Committee on Culture. This reform of vocational education and training is more important than many people understand, because it is part of the safety net of society — that no one falls through it and everyone stays with it. In addition, this will have a huge regional impact, a huge impact on what is all around us, on working life and the future of the regions and of Finland as a whole. There really is a need for this reform, for example, if you think that the statistics 2013-2014 varied between 2.3% and 19.6%. So there is a great variation between the various educational institutions, and then there is a rather drastic dropout rate in general. This is the case with a personalisation model, in which the individual study paths will certainly increase the motivation of the students, and in which you can see the skills-based education that is just right for the students, and from there you can tailor the education completely. The students are at the heart of this. Educational institutions will also be able to tailor the whole and much easier to target the educational provision. In this changing working environment, this flexibility and agility is really the key to keeping us on the way to the world. It will then respond to today's working life. Here, education exports are also addressed as a part, regulated and opportunities are created for vocational studies to be tailored to foreign students as well or for foreign students to be carried out here in Finland. There has been a lot of discussion here today on apprenticeship training and the training agreement. The principle and objective of these two different models is to make these two models more flexible, to create a variety of different ways and learning environments for students and to respond to their different needs and also to motivate students to learn in such good, inspiring and practical environments. After all, the basis of the education contract is that even in those workplaces that cannot in this way employ jobs to offer, there is then an opportunity to train these students. We have talked a lot about funding here today, and, admittedly, there was concern in the expert opinions, particularly with regard to the regional availability and access to these disadvantaged students, that they would then be able to keep up with this funding. On the other hand, this 50% basic funding model has also been praised for being effective and heading in the right direction, which is precisely where it is rewarded for being able to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u202	Mr President! The reform of secondary vocational education and training has a very high impact, as has been said several times today in various speeches. We need to develop secondary education, but we should have done it together with high school. Several experts have pointed out that the reform should have targeted the entire upper secondary vocational education and training and the entire age group. Thus, in youth education, upper secondary school and vocational education would have created a seamless continuation of education on the dual model. Now there is a risk that this will not happen. Now the government has focused only on reforming secondary vocational education and training, first through massive economic cuts, and then calls for a number of reforms which require more funding than cuts. As a result, even the good objectives of the proposal will be made more difficult and partially unfulfilled. Training providers do not really have the opportunity to carry out the reform in the desired way because of the increased tasks and costs. The most unfortunate thing about this is that students, young people and adults are the most affected by the government proposal, as well as staff in educational institutions who have been reduced and laid off in different parts of Finland. In other words, the right of students to high-quality contact teaching, the right of teachers to teach and the needs of working life are completely forgotten. As a result of government cuts, about 2,000 teachers are being cut from educational institutions, which means that there will be fewer teachers and tutors in educational institutions to whom a young person or an adult can turn in different ways. Where sufficient resources and local lessons have been provided, it has also been possible to prevent learning difficulties and drop-out. It seems that the government believes and assumes that all young people aged 16 to 18 in vocational training are self-directed and well-managed. The truth is, however, that many young people still need support and security in secondary education. Responsibility for the education and future of young people will be transferred to young people and workplaces. This situation is further exacerbated by the fact that the government’s funding model discriminates between students. The funding model does not encourage the institution to take more students who need to be supported in learning. According to the survey, up to 82 per cent of the education providers considered that the new funding model does not provide sufficient incentives to take students who are more challenging or need more support. A little less than half of them are going to tighten up their selection criteria. As a result, there is a risk that some young people will be excluded from education or drop out with insufficient hours and lack of support. The risk of exclusion for these young people is high. The government should have stepped up its efforts to secure a secondary study place for every young person. Unfortunately, this will not happen. For this reason, I still strongly believe that the right to education or compulsory education — how it is to be said — should be increased to 18 years so that every young person can obtain a secondary degree. This right of young people forces society to organise a place of study, workshop or other similar education for each young person. The young person must not be left alone without a place of attachment. Mr President! Unfortunately, the government has also not listened to the working life and educational institutions about the conditions and needs of learning in the workplace. The reform should have brought more jobs into the planning phase. This has not been the case. The government has transferred a large part of learning and training to workplaces. The economic impact of the increase in the number of people learning at work is considerably greater than that of the government. Workplaces lack the necessary training and guidance resources. Jobs are learning environments. Workplace instructors do not replace teachers. In order to ensure the necessary learning for the student, this requires targeted and good cooperation between the workplace and the educational institution. Adequate resources and expertise and pedagogical skills must be secured for the workplace instructor. Their guidance and training and evaluation skills must be ensured. Unfortunately, this is not happening everywhere. The majority of students in vocational education and training go to small and medium-sized enterprises to study at work. These workplaces often lack sufficient resources or opportunities to take responsibility for the educational role that young people require in learning. Companies have also indicated that they do not have the willingness to take responsibility for learning at work because of its complexity and use of time. SMEs do not have the resources to detach an employee or director to teach a student. Largest companies have better opportunities and better resources. This is an unequal test for students in different fields. Mr President! Just a few more things to worry about. I am very concerned that, given the focus of vocational training on workplaces, there is a risk that the protection of general education materials has not been adequately ensured. There is a risk that postgraduate learning will no longer succeed in accordance with the dual model and that young people will no longer be able to continue their studies at the university through the vocational education and training channel. Much more attention should have been paid to this issue. This is a major structural and educational change at present. This is regrettable because, at best, the fairway through the Vocational College brings to the university of applied sciences very good professional experts and experts required to meet the needs of working life. The second issue is the impact of funding on the security of labour market professionals. There has been a lot of talk here today about basic funding, but I am addressing one issue that has been a concern in our region of South Karelia, in South-East Finland. Basic funding will also guide the organisation of training programmes. Providers of training may have to consider whether it is worthwhile to organise expensive training, such as process technology, machinery and production technology and the forest sector. The present financial system does not support or encourage the organisation of these training programmes. This can also make it more difficult for professional professionals to become involved in these areas in the future. However, the good news is that the basic degree for young people and adults will be combined. It is also positive that all of them are guaranteed free, free-of-charge school meals, services for psychologists and school curators, as well as joint qualifications. In South Karelia, the Association of Municipalities for Education and Training, youth and adult basic skills are already managed together in many areas. The presence of adults among young people supports young people in a good way in their studies, in their life management, and also strengthens their working life capacity. However, the major problem is that funding has not taken account of this whole and, for example, the free provision of adult meals and the additional need for psychological and curatorial services. This also creates additional problems for the financing base of our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u203	At this point, when we have so few speakers, let's go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u204	Mr President! The long-awaited amis reform of vocational education and training is finally progressing. Today we are dealing with this reform now in the great Chamber, and throughout the spring we in the Committee on Education have produced this extensive report and heard a lot of experts. Tomorrow we will start voting on this issue, but it can be said that we are largely in agreement with the broad lines and the objectives of this Parliament. Workplace learning will be increased, and wider qualifications will also lead to a better match between working life and education. Bureaucracy will be dismantled and heavy structures reduced as the barriers to education and training for young people and adults are removed. Training providers are encouraged to increase the duration of training in those qualifications where this is possible. The most important thing is that each student is tailored to his/her own personal study path. This will allow each student to see whether he or she can best complete the studies he or she needs at the workplace or at the local school. As a growing number of students complete their qualifications in the workplace, local education resources can be allocated to those in need. In implementing this reform, there have been many opinions as to whether sufficient resources are now available for this, then in the field and in educational establishments and also in the workplace. Well, 15 plus 15 million will now be earmarked for this reform next year and the following year. Together with the committee, we wanted to emphasise that this support for this reform should be directed specifically towards the implementation of this personalisation, the implementation of which should be directed at how its models can be made work nationally, so that this personalisation really progresses. In order to create a Finnish model for workplace learning, it is also important that resources can also be allocated to it. Of course, it is also good and very important to increase the skills of teachers, but it is also very important for students who need special support that they do not get caught up in this reform, but that they are able to support those who need more of that local and contact teaching. Then, too, this extra EUR 80 million, as outlined in the Government's mid-term review, is intended to support the creation of these learning environments in particular in the region, so that employers and educational institutions together can better organise these learning environments, expensive investment in equipment. The model for implementing this practice will become even more specific in the future, but it is important that additional investment is also made in these investments. After all, the committee also made four statements, and I would like to highlight this 2nd statement in particular, in which we propose that 'the Commission requires that during the transitional period of the financial reform, the Ministry of Education and Culture monitor the impact of the new financing system for vocational education and training on the organisation of vocational education and training, and submit an annual report to the Committee on Education for information at the beginning of the autumn session. In this context, the adequacy of the basic contribution will also be assessed". This basic contribution has been concerned that this is sufficiently predictable. If this is really the case that this basic contribution is not sufficient, then this must be very critically assessed. And if it seems that it will not be enough, then each year we will have the opportunity, through the Ministry of Education and then through Parliament, to intervene. That is also what we have required in the Committee on Culture. What is also particularly important is that Parliament also requires the Ministry of Education and Culture to support and monitor and assess the implementation of the reform of vocational education and training, including the impact on the regional and linguistic accessibility of education, the reduction of the drop-out of studies and the implementation of the training month. It is particularly important to monitor the increase in the number of apprenticeships and apprenticeships by industry in line with the objectives of the reform. Much has been said about this debate, particularly by small businesses, on this training allowance, that it is very difficult for small businesses with very expensive equipment in use but still few staff. In these companies, deep concern has been expressed as to how students can be admitted there to learn, even though there is a severe shortage of labour in the sector. Good examples of this are forest machinery companies and construction companies where this situation is at hand. We expect that if, for example, the use of this training agreement and workplace learning are not progressing sufficiently in these sectors, then we will have to look at the ways in which this can be better achieved. We must not be in a situation where there will be clear inequalities between sectors in these areas and where there will be insufficient training for these experts. Mr President! With these additions and withdrawals, I welcome this reform and wish it every success in the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u205	Mr President! A moment ago, I asked for an answer to an important detail when Mr Kiljunen drew attention to one of the problems or problems of the government proposal in relation to second-degree cooperation, that is to say, cooperation between upper secondary schools and vocational education and training, the idea of which is such a modern approach to professional education and education. For the second time, I would like to quote a written statement from the Sastamala Joint Municipal Authority: "The Group considers it important that in the future a strong provider of education has a wide range of vocational education and training, in addition to the provision of upper secondary school and liberal education. This will ensure a high level of human capital for upper secondary education staff and allow for a flexible combination of different fields of competence and the provision of resources for the operational and quality management system." To put it bluntly, in the case of cooperation between this upper secondary school and vocational education, the Coalition Party has been the brake on this. I know that there are a lot of individuals and similar people who see this matter in this way as the Sastamala Joint Municipal Authority, but unfortunately the assembly seems to have a majority for whom such a high school purity is important and which somehow alienates this collaboration. I really regret that, because this development of cooperation has stood still for a very long time since the educational experiments in the late 1990s that were carried out, and the results were excellent. For example, young people who have a double degree, a basic vocational qualification and a matriculation examination, a working life and a business life take as a fan out of hand. This is a problem which, at this point, seems impossible, even though tomorrow there will be a motion to vote on the fact that we would like to add an element to the funding of effectiveness, one point which would encourage the organisers of education and training to work together, and that would also give them an economic incentive. Oh, dear. Well, I see this still takes a lot of work. Mr President! In many respects, in this commendable debate that has taken place this evening, there is a bit of such an attitude against believers who have a healthy suspicion [Laughter] Mr President! I do not want to go into a more detailed summary of the debate that has taken place, but it was for a long time that this level of basic funding was dominated by the opposition and, a little bit now, between the lines, many representatives of the government parties would be quite prepared to raise its level of basic funding from 50 % to 60 %, which would give the management of educational institutions, teachers greater peace, greater seriousness to develop that teaching activity, plans, pedagogy and so on. The discussion concluded that educational institutions' finances such as basic operating expenses, personnel costs and so on, eat two thirds, so that yes this 50 percent of the time scarce presentation is. There's no way out of it. We in the opposition have also taken seriously the calculation of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which is also included in the government's proposal, that the price tag for these additional expenses, new tasks, according to the calculation of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, is approximately EUR 84 million. We have not now bothered Parliament's information service in the opposition that it has now done new calculations, as if it were the right size. In this context, this government’s arrival is really such a sparse line. Then, Mr President, I would like to say specifically about this training agreement, which is now being introduced as a new format for this vocational training. In the beginning, I was very much alienated, not only conceptually but also in terms of content, but I, even in this consultation of experts, have begun to accept that there may be some sense in it, because it is in practice this introduction of work learning into this vocational training. But what is essential now is that, for example, I myself would have liked to be more active in developing apprenticeships — in real terms — quantitatively, qualitatively and so on. Now this training agreement brings this kind of new format, which is to some extent a jump into the unknown. It must now be said out loud in this context. It all depends on how we succeed in drawing up a personal curriculum and attaching it to it in working learning. What is important now is that I do not consider it reasonable and possible for a young person to complete a vocational qualification as a training contract. It does not, however, achieve enough of these professional, educational and learning skills. This is now a very interesting matter to follow up on how this general professionalism can be implemented in the implementation of this training agreement. That remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u206	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson's speech made this point: I think that this possibility of reconciling upper secondary and vocational education and training through personalised vocational education and training is improving right now. When a student is given a personal education plan, I think that he or she will be more easily able to adapt, for example, from upper secondary school to his/her own training programme. I myself have in mind this — how I would say — an image of tourism studies, for example, where there is a need for diverse language skills, that a student of vocational education and training could take e-learning courses, for example, which would give him a very rich, diverse language skills, and then read them to him to fit his/her own training programme. In other words, I would suggest that cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education will bring much richer and more diverse skills to vocational education and training. For example, the tourism sector is one where much more diverse language and cultural know-how is needed than what is currently available.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u207	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Parviainen, for the floor. That's right, but of course you can find this now in the technology industry, export installers, Kone Oyj and the chemical industry and all kinds of places. That is the way it is, and that is why this issue is so important, and that is why tomorrow it will be proposed that this law, when it includes this effectiveness funding, will add one point — "the completion of courses in secondary schools" — in order to make this kind of incentive bonus and element. Probably the smartest educational institutions do just this way as Mrs Parviainen put forward and so on, but we all understand that this kind of structural investment in this context would now be the added value of what this professional reform legislation requires. In other words, when this effectiveness funding includes this employment and the transition to further studies in Section 1, a new course would be added to it, "to complete courses for second-degree educational institutions". Then the student feedback and the work life feedback. This is how this thing really goes forward. Great, I believe that Mrs Parviainen will vote in favour of this motion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u208	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. On the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 5/2017 vp, the position on the report will now be decided. Following a presentation by the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The length of the speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u209	Madam President! We do not live here in Finland in any sealed state, but we are affected by outside events, unfortunately sometimes in a very unpleasant way. One example of this was that the Church of Temple Square — about 100 metres away from this — became a terrorist threat report and then followed by certain measures. This action by Isil continues to pose a significant threat to international peace and security. Although Isil's position has deteriorated over the past year and, for example, in Iraq, it is estimated that around 7% of the country's territory is still in the hands of the organisation, there is still a considerable amount of money to be made available to bring down its activities. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore considers it justified to continue Finland's participation in the international coalition against Isil by providing training for the security sector in Iraq on this OR mission and its framework. Continued participation is important, as in the short term, the key prerequisite for the stabilisation of Iraq is to improve the security situation in the country, and The defeat of Isil. In the longer term, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it likely that the decline in Isil's position will continue and that the focus of its activities will be increasingly shifted to the implementation of terrorist attacks in the widest possible area, including Europe, and we must also have our own action plans here in Finland. After all, recent events have shown that we also have the capacity to face these new challenges. Mr President! Finland is therefore expected to continue to participate in this ORI operation with approximately 100 soldiers from 1.9. until the end of 18. The aim is to develop an approach to education and training, which also includes advice from safety authorities. In the future, Finland's educational activities will also be extended to non-peshmerga groups. With regard to this extension, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it important to limit the provision of training to paramilitary groups, which may include so-called Shiaamilitia groups. Furthermore, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that the ORI mission remains a high-risk operation due to circumstances. Especially now that the nature of Finnish participation in the operation is becoming more mobile and the scope of the operation is expanding, a new level of risk may be imposed on the Finnish troops and may increase, as Isil still has areas in the north of Iraq and outside of them the organisation is able to carry out terrorist attacks. Although the threat level in the areas controlled by the Kurdistan regional government has remained relatively low, the threat level in the rest of Northern Iraq has increased and in Mosul it is extremely high. With the focus on the activities of mobile training groups, training groups can be exposed to suicide attacks, roadside bombs and mines and the use of direct and indirect fire. It is important that the Defence Forces continuously assess the adequacy of self-protection under the conditions of the mission area and report their findings to relevant parties. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the fact that the training provided by the Finnish crisis management team in the framework of the AIR operation has already been successful and the Finnish training method has received good feedback from the people being trained. So far, Ira Kurdistan Peshmerga troops have been trained in cooperation with Norway, Holland and Great Britain. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also stresses that action in demanding multinational operations and environments also benefits domestic defence. Among other things, it provides an opportunity to test equipment and practices in a way that would not be possible at home. In addition, according to expert judgement, Finnish military training expertise can be used exceptionally effectively in this operation. The committee stresses that, in order to ensure the long-term development and sustainable stabilisation of Iraq, the national reconciliation process and the conditions for reconstruction must be central. Without a functioning democracy and economy, good governance and respect for human rights, there will be no reason for Isil's support. Finland must be involved in various integrated measures in Iraqi society on a very wide scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u210	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Salolainen, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, went through this quite extensively from the point of view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We in the Committee on Defence also discussed this in depth, as we did the previous time when it was decided to participate in a similar training operation. This decision now under discussion decides to continue this training mission in Iraq, the OIR, with the strength of some 100 soldiers in Iraq until the end of 2018. This is part of the fight against terrorism, which has been very successful, and this has been reflected widely in the committee's consultations. Daeshi, Isil, Isis, is now in possession of less than 7% of Iraq's territory, but, as the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs pointed out earlier, this driving of terrorists into the corner has caused, and will certainly cause, an increase in the threat of terrorism in all Western countries. In other words, terrorists driven into a corner will then become more and more vulnerable to attacks in places where there is scope for it. Of course there is also concern about the humanitarian crisis in the Mosul region. In this area there are significant, as many as 11 million people in need of humanitarian aid overall. It is, of course, important then to be able to stabilise beyond that situation so that it can live more safely in the future. Threat assessments have been raised both in Finland and in Europe in many other countries, and we must hope that these measures will also be pursued with determination. There are still certain things that, in my opinion, require tightening up in Finland, such as the return of these foreign fighters to Finland. I personally do not understand that we are allowing them to come back here and actually live a completely free life. And as my own personal opinion: I also do not understand that, for example, Kela compensation is still being paid to these foreign fighters who are involved in the activities of the terrorist organisation Daesh. There should be a way to deal with this type of situation. Other European countries have intervened in these areas. It is, in part, even a measure comparable to the financing of terrorism when they receive these grants despite their association with such a terrorist organisation. This ORI operation does not therefore have a real UN mandate, but it therefore relies on the UN Security Council resolution and the Iraqi Government's consent and request, as well as this use of force by our soldiers and its own security there. There are currently 68 members in this international coalition, including all EU countries and also the Nordic countries. The Committee on Defence has also discussed the risk assessment more extensively. This is a high-risk operation. And when the focus of training activities has moved forward and will be more focused on the activities of these progressive or mobile training groups, the possibility and exposure, for example, to suicide attacks, roadside bombs, mines and the use of direct and indirect fire will be emphasised. That's why you have to keep an eye on your self-preservation all the time. Mr President! Finally, on these benefits of the operation for national defence: On the other hand, it seems a little unpleasant to even think about such a question because, of course, the main task here is to stabilise the situation in this area, but the committee's report shows that this has had a positive impact on our country's own defence, as has also been the case with training and advisory operations. And when our system is based on the military, we have also had perhaps more to offer than wages for this type of project. Experts also pointed out in the Committee on Defence that action in demanding multinational environments will therefore also benefit domestic defence. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u211	Minister Soini, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u212	Madam President! I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report and the Committee on Defence for its opinion, which have presented valuable views on the educational activities of the Finnish security sector in Iraq. We will, of course, respond, among other things, to the request that Parliament be kept informed of the progress of participation in the training mission and the related issues, such as the geographical location of education. So why is it important that Finland participates in the Iraqi training mission? As stated in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is important for Finland to participate in international action against Isil, because its activities pose a threat not only to international peace and security but also directly to Europe and Finland. We have received further regrettable reminders of this across Europe. The impact of people and networks connected to Isil is still the most significant factor in Finland's terrorist threat image. In addition to national measures to combat it, Finland has a duty to participate in the fight against Isil by means of joint efforts. Non-participation is not an option. As with crisis management, this cooperation to develop the security sector in Iraq can improve people's lives in the country of destination and at the same time strengthen security in Finland. This combines our national interest with the desire to build a fairer and more stable world. Mr President! How, then, have we managed to promote action against Isil in Iraq? The Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses that Finland's efforts to stabilise Iraq must be as comprehensive as possible. The coalition against Isil is an excellent example of multiple cooperation at international level. Cooperation shall cover military activities, stabilisation activities, foreign fighters and communication and financing issues. From the outset, Finland has participated in the fight against Isil through cooperation between different administrative branches. We have focused on areas where we have special expertise and resources. The military has trained the security sector in Iraq. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have worked closely together on foreign fighters. The most recent example of cooperation in the administrative field of the Ministry of the Interior is the desire to contribute to the development of police training in Iraq. Concrete preparations for police training began the second week in Baghdad with Italy leading the coalition police component. Madam President! Support from Finland There is an commendable diversity in the fight against Isil. We are also providing development and humanitarian aid. This includes support for the stabilisation of areas exempted from Isil and the clearance of mines. We have received much positive feedback on the training we provide and on our support more generally. Finland has also strongly supported the idea of the EU contributing to the reform of the security sector in Iraq. It is very important that this should be done, because otherwise there is a risk that even if Isil is defeated, but there will be no structures, no corrupt government, no corrupt police, we will soon slip into that terrible situation again. That is why it is extremely important to be involved in this. Mr President! The coalition against Isil is unprecedented and has recently increased to 70 members. The operation of the coalition is also exceptionally comprehensive. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u213	Madam President! It is very valuable that the Minister is here to participate in this debate. I would like to ask him now that it is likely that Isil will have a situation, that it has been cornered, and that it will start pouring people into Europe and probably into Finland: do we now have the capacity to introduce measures in Finland to keep this under control? It is true that the protection police, for example, already have to follow 350 people who may be suspected of taking bad action here in the country. This is a new situation when there may be more of these, and will there have to be more stringent measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u214	Do you want to answer right away?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u215	Madam President! This is an extremely important issue. For there is fear: When Isil is likely to fall in both Mosul and Raqqa, where do these persons go? It is highly assumed that they will go to their countries of origin — those who have left here — and they will then be a clear security risk to us as well. There must be radical ways of doing this, for example if you have been involved in such activities, whether you are entitled to return. Where's the line? It does not necessarily go as far as whether or not you have committed a war crime, but it should already be there if you go deliberately to participate in terrorist activities, and this, as if in the future, will trigger the perpetrator that there is no coming back. But we do not yet have any legislation on this, and that is why this is something that needs to be considered. I hope we will avoid a terrorist attack in Finland, but, as the events of the last few days show,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u216	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Soini for raising this issue so firmly. We have taken a number of measures — financing and training a terrorist organisation — but, as the Minister pointed out, this kind of membership of a terrorist organisation, that is to say, going there, is not a crime at the moment. It is extraordinary — we have about 20 of these guys who have returned to Finland from these 80 foreign fighters, whom I prefer to call terrorists — that they can continue to walk free here and, above all, we are wondering how to help them and so away. But I would also ask the Minister: when an EU country imposes an entry ban, why can such persons come to another EU country? Should they not now seek that unity in Europe? When one country restricts or prevents and they have information that this person is a security threat, it seems strange that such persons may have travelled to Finland, for example, when another EU country has been excluded from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u217	Madam President! This is an issue that I cannot fully answer because I do not know what the laws of different countries are and how the law views this. But when we talk about a common Europe — especially when we are in the Schengen area, so that we do not have border controls — then what Mr Heinonen is saying sounds quite reasonable. Then, of course, if there are border controls and so on, then we will have the opportunity, as it were, to check who is moving and how is moving and to prevent entry, but what will prevent you in that situation if there is free movement? Of course, our society must remain free and avoid excesses, but neither can we leave the gaps that terrorists and the people who want to destroy our way of life can take advantage of.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u218	Mr President! I would like to ask you, Minister, when we now know that, when we have a return decision on people, it very often comes to a decision right away that there is nothing to do with the Schengen area for two years, do you know, or do you have any way of doing so, that if we really are dealing with these returnees here, which we might call terrorists, we would have someone like this Schengen cooperation, because it is in a way a bit similar to what we do when forced returns come?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u219	Madam President! This is just the sort of thing that I think we need to clarify at EU level now, because we now have different practices between different EU countries and, in my opinion, between Schengen regions. Yes, I think the situation should be that if a person deliberately enlists in an organization such as Daesh, Isis, it must have its consequences. At the moment, if they have committed war crimes there, they will be convicted. We also have a fairly recent case in Finland where the charge was brought, there was no evidence, there was strong doubt. Of course, in a state of justice, we have to act on what a court decision is, but terrible things are happening there, and it is quite difficult to get proof of them here when they have taken place thousands of kilometres from us. But this is worth considering what Mr Tolppanen was saying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u220	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u221	Madam President! The difficulty and tension of the international situation sometimes make you feel rather small and powerless. However, something needs to be done to help the millions of Syrians and others who persevere in the war and conflict area or to prevent Isil from taking over yet more areas. This training support for the Iraqi Kurdistan security forces is one concrete way in which we can be at the forefront of the work to defeat Isil, and what is more appropriate for Finland than to participate in training and advice in Iraq. We also have experience of training support and advice in many other crisis management operations. The operation has also provided an opportunity to develop cooperation with other Nordic countries in the region, such as Norway, Denmark and Sweden. I am in favour of continuing cooperation in education and thank the government for its good preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u222	Madam President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has produced a report, but when this was in the Committee on Defence with an opinion, a few words from that point of view: We have experience of this cooperation in education and training in Iraq, for this is the third time that we are continuing, now on 1 September, with the presence and educational participation of about 100 people there. It is a big investment from Finland, an estimate of approximately EUR 31 million this year. It is important, however, that these training missions are involved, especially when it comes to UN mandated work. It is also great to see that there are 68 countries in this fight against Isil, All the Nordic countries except Iceland. This is partly linked to this French request for assistance which was submitted to Finland after the terrorist act that took place in France at the time. It is worth noting that military aid and training aid are not enough, but at the same time should be able to develop society, build a normal life in that region, and that would require funding. It would require development cooperation funding and it would require humanitarian aid. Well, it is unfortunate that, during this government, all of these have been cut off, with the support of which such a normal building of society could then continue, could be better achieved now that it seems that Isil can be driven out of the area. Security training is therefore an education which is not given to these paramilitary forces, but genuinely training those forces established in society who will then have the opportunity in the future to secure control of legal power, regional security and the possibility of restoring stability in that region — while, of course, still driving Isil out of it. It always requires a rigorous assessment of these participation decisions, which is what it is from Finland's point of view. These examples have already been mentioned here that we have interests in the testing of equipment and in our own training opportunities in other types of conditions, etc. But then, on the other hand, the disadvantages must also be assessed. Of course, we have this issue of terrorism, which has also been referred to today, and yes, Finland must be on guard at all times. When Finland participates in the eradication of these terrorist organisations, it can then move to Finland. Similarly, these people who are involved in this training operation, as in this case, are at considerable risk in terms of safety. We have experience and knowledge of how Finns have been hit by accidents, whether they have been just traffic accidents or caused by roadside bombs or just being shot at, or — perhaps now the Finns have not yet been subjected to chemical weapons. These are the risks, and that is why it has been great in the Committee on Defence to see that everyone wants to secure, through insurance, the safety of these soldiers who are going there if anything happens in these cases. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u223	Mr President! In the field of education, I think we have exceptionally strong and diverse international evidence in these operations. We remember Afghanistan, we remember how, under the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Timo Soin, Mali was dealt with in this same spirit at the time, and it was also possible to be in Somalia in training — I am not quite sure, somehow I am — and once again here we are motivated, of course, by a rather universal basic effort to get Iraq on its feet and to put an end to oxygen as quickly as possible from those actors in the world who have no humanity at all. That is why, of course, this is extremely interesting and important, because Finland shares this international responsibility and wants to make a contribution to ensuring positive development. These require a long-term approach, and in this respect I cannot fail to mention the fact that perhaps there are quite a few experiences and lessons to be learned in Afghanistan, one of which may be that the West, after all, withdrew too quickly from Afghanistan. Although the situation seemed to be desperate, it was concluded, for reasons of domestic politics in different countries, that, as it were, it was necessary to deliver on its promises and withdraw from Afghanistan in a way that did not necessarily tell a success story, but perhaps a more long-term presence would have led to a more solid social development at that time. Well, what remains to be seen is the story of Iraq, because no story is fully copyable or experience can be recaptured, but there will always be a long-term demand for these operations, and it is therefore perfectly understandable that this operation, which is being presented by the government now, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has presented an excellent report and which the Committee on Defence supports with its own comprehensive opinion, is indeed being implemented. This should be supported in various forms, using the widest possible range of means for Iraq. But I did not actually come here to review these almost obvious facts, but, with a little uncertainty, I myself say very openly that I am in the process of expressing my firm opinion on a matter which I would like to raise here and now. A few years ago, a year, two backwards, Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, read about this type of operation that stopped me, at least. He now, if anyone has an idea of what these international demanding operations, both mandated by the UN and others, mean. Kofi Annan felt that these mandates and their commitment should be as firm and tough as possible, because of course the other side can also see that if you withdraw quickly and if pressure from the other side is put on real and difficult and dangerous, the UN forces should not run away. He believes that, in the light of the world’s general human development, there should be much stronger anchoring to these tasks and not just to assume that, when difficulties arise, we should put a crutch under our arms and slip into the paws. That is why I myself, with a higher level of danger, have often been meditating on the fact that we have never had this debate in Finland, nowhere, at least not within the walls of this house, but that it should be tolerated in the light of Kofi Annan's life experiences, taking into account the fundamental questions of world peace, sometimes stop to think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u224	Madam President! When Finland participates in training tasks to train fighters Against Isil, it inevitably reminds me how much the threat level in Finland will rise as a result of this. Some years ago, there were around 20 to 30 persons under protection police surveillance who were considered to be a significant threat. In 2015, I was at an event where it was said that we now have about 70 people in 24/7 follow-up. In early 2016, there were already 200 of them, and today there are 350 people in 24/7 follow-up. I would like to ask the question that, knowing that these people are coming here now, and seeing where they are and how they can be followed, what is the idea of why they are being allowed here when they know that they have left for a certain purpose. Why are they letting them in here? What is this idea here? Many citizens have sent mail and asked about this, which is the role of Finland. Now that we want to strengthen this international work — and we understand, of course, that Finland wants to be involved in such activities — how great is this risk? There are now many long-term parliamentarians here who have been involved in these tasks, and it would be interesting to hear some ideas about this, including from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u225	Mr President! It is important that Finland continues to assume its responsibilities in this Iraq operation and has continued to do so since autumn, and also through this, to play its part in supporting France after the terrorist attacks in Paris, so that France is able to release its own troops to the tasks it wants. What is particularly important is that Finland invests in this particular competence in education, and precisely that local authorities there are able to improve their own military training capacities, and this responsibility and competence in education are increasingly and more transferred to the local level. Of course, it is also important for Finland to take care of its own troops, that the self-protection is in order and that the equipment level is also in place. In this opinion of the Committee on Defence, we also pointed out that if, for example, the vehicle fleet did not provide sufficient protection, the Defence Forces would immediately react to it in such a way that the level of protection would then be sufficiently high and that these materials and, for example, the vehicle fleet would be updated to the level that it would be able to provide sufficient protection for the Finnish soldier, that, however, it would be possible to provide all the security that Finland can and must provide. I would have asked the Minister about this when, however, Finland is actively involved in the fight against terrorism, and it is also appropriate to ask on behalf of the public when there are these terrorist threats and this level of threat has risen: how are we really prepared for this? It can be thought that, for example, there has not been a risk of such attacks on national targets so,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u226	Madam President! It is a good thing that Finland continues to promote security In Iraq, by participating in this cooperation in education and training. At the same time, Finland's arms exports to the Middle East have multiplied in recent years. In many countries war is waged or equipped for it, so, as we all know, there is plenty of markets there. It has been reported from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' arms control unit that exports to the countries of the Middle East are always considered on a case-by-case basis because, as we know, this is a conflict-sensitive area. However, these Finnish trading partners do not only use weapons for defence. Once the weapons have been delivered, they are always under the control of the end user and Finland can at most ensure that they are used in an agreed manner. But when the weapons are delivered, there will be no more control. I ask Foreign Minister Soin: how do you control export decisions, what is the war situation in the target country, and how do you control that weapons do not fall into the wrong hands?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u227	Mr President! The representative, Mr Laukkanen, raised the issue here of these approximately 350 persons who were subject to the surveillance of the protection police. Of course, there are likely to be other people involved in them in a significant way than those who have participated in the battles. These foreign fighters, the returned terrorists, are about 20, and it is of course possible that there are people in this 350 who have been found to be at risk in other ways, as has been pointed out by these various reports of film, theatre, university terrorism. One important way is, of course, what has been said here that we should, of course, be able to prevent these people from returning to Finland if they leave here. But, of course, the other is that we should be able to obtain information more quickly by our own authorities. We now rely too much on other countries, for example on intelligence. In fact, I would like to ask you now that there is a representative from Salolainen here, who is involved in this preparatory group for intelligence legislation, what is the timetable for bringing this into everyday life? It feels like the clock is ticking, and I am not going to tell you what might be at the end of it, but I would like to hear — and I think this is of wider interest to the Finns that this important part of the fight against terrorist attacks will be put right — at what time is this going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u228	The reply, Mr Salolainen, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u229	Mr President! After all, we have such a parliamentary body to prepare this intelligence legislation, which will result in a military intelligence law and a civil intelligence law. We had the last meeting today on this very issue and, among other things, on this issue of timetables. It seems that, by the end of this year — now that opinions have been requested and received these very days — the intention is to have drafts of legislation here in Parliament and then the actual reading would take place next year. A very important goal would be to get these laws through next year here in Parliament because every day is important here. Who will be responsible if we delay in vain? I understand that this needs to be carefully prepared. Who will be responsible if we delay this matter unnecessarily and if there is a terrorist act that could have been prevented by these laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u230	Minister Soini, three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u231	Madam President! I thank Parliament and the Chamber for a good debate. It is important that there is national consensus and consensus here. A few comments on the speeches made by the representatives: The fight against terrorism is very diverse: there are networks, recruitment, anti-radicalisation, financial intervention. Then there is this constant follow-up. With current resources, and not really with any resources, it is possible to constantly monitor 350 people, it is absolutely impossible, but risk profiling is of course needed, and we know these people. Then there is the level of threat that the protection police now decided to raise — that is to say, the protection police — and there is a reason for it. We have an increased level of threat. But we must also remember, when these threats and others are reacted to — including intelligence legislation and others — that this is a very precise line between civil rights, civil liberties, human rights and then the security of society, and this must be balanced, because we do not, of course, want our way of life and our democracy to be subjected to this kind of terror. Then, we are not an isolated island. More than 10 EU citizens were killed in the terrorist attacks in London and Manchester. In other words, the attack, which will take place anywhere in Europe, will be on all Europeans, including us. And this is why it's important... Finns are not safe in Brussels or London or Manchester, even though we are involved in this. That is why our human responsibility is involved. Then, at the end of the day, a comment on the question of Mr Östman's arms exports: it is just as he said that we should look closely at it on a case-by-case basis. This is quite difficult, by the way. So clearly, of course, when there is war and stuff like this, you don't take it. But let us take Yemen, for example: some of the troops that are assisting there are, as it were, in the forces of the legitimate Yemeni government, in the same way as Al-Assad is the legal ruler of Syria, the ruling power, and then Russia, as it were, will help them. This is very complicated and morally escalating. Then one thing in this bad world is whether we can control this better through our own defence industry or whether the Italians or some of our defence equipment industries sell to those who buy it. But this representative Mr Östman's attention is important, and that is something we must constantly pay attention to, on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u232	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 6/2017 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u233	Mr President! This is a temporary experiment and related legislation. This is about the fact that, according to the experiment, future municipalities should be responsible for providing public employment and business services. This law provides a more precise definition of how this can happen and is aimed specifically at the long-term unemployed. The law is to be welcomed, and the committee was also pleased that such an experiment would take place, but the committee considered the time when the results should come to be very short in terms of achieving the objectives set for the experiment. We actually had a municipal experiment in the last parliamentary term, which was quite extensive and which we know has produced good results. The aim of this experiment is, as it were, to prepare for the provincial administration by means of municipal and provincial experiments, and the problem is that, at the same time, decisions have already been taken to go into the regional model. So, in a way, this experiment does not produce the result that it may have gone for. We all know that the present whole of employment services is fragmented, or rather employment services are not fragmented, but they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Employment and Employment and Employment Offices and so on, but many unemployed people need more social services, health services, rehabilitation services and the like, in addition to employment services, and this whole is scattered from the customer's point of view. The money is in different coffers, the responsibilities lie with different authorities, and therefore it may not always be possible to have intact service chains. This increase in the responsibility of municipalities aims to ensure that service chains are more intact and complete. In fact, this also involves the renewal and sharing of customer information systems. This has been one of the obstacles to the fact that information has not always passed, and the committee therefore welcomes the fact that the experiment creates the possibility of using the customer information systems of the labour and economic administration together and of experimenting with this shared use of information systems. The law also includes the so-called experiment in working life. On this point, the committee decided to table two amendments, one more technical and the other more substantive. We are all better acquainted with perhaps rehabilitating work activities aimed at those unemployed who are not helped by these more traditional employment services, i.e. employment services on the back of the TE administration — labour policy measures and so on, whether it be wage subsidies for work, labour market training, work trials or the like. In other words, the customer base is a long way from working life and the labour market. Now, in this experiment, it has been thought that an issue such as rehabilitative work could also be organised in companies. Until now, it has been the responsibility of the municipality and it has been arranged in municipalities as a rule. This is where the committee stresses that this experiment in working life must not replace, for example, paid employment and that it is important to pay attention to supporting and motivating the unemployed rather than using the coercion and toughness that the law allows. The municipalities involved in this experiment are limited, and the experiment is based on the will of the municipalities themselves. For example,in the Rauma-Porinregion,theperintraception that Rauma and thePoriboth are on their way out,but in the middle of the journey,the railway decided to deviate from the road and declared The other one might be a little more relevant: When this law describes the target group for whom this new work experiment or form of rehabilitative work activity, which would then take place in companies, the law states that it is intended for people who return to the labour market. But when we also have long-term unemployed people who have never been on the labour market and for whom this experiment is also intended, the committee decided to change this wording by supporting this access to the labour market. In other words, with these two amendments, the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy approved this work experiment. Furthermore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to the fact that this government proposal was based on the assumption that, if a person is in rehabilitative work, he is entitled to travel allowances and certain allowances, but if he is on the business side of the experiment, these would not be the case. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called for clearer legislation and justification that, if this is the case, there should be a legitimate reason for it. The committee did not go looking for a legitimate reason, but in this report it proposes that travel expenses be paid to both in accordance with the same rules of the game, because it increases the equality of the people affected by these measures. The committee also made some strong criticisms of the evaluation of this experiment — that, according to the results of the study, the target groups or the way in which the experiment was carried out were not defined in detail at the stage of its application. This is in itself a good idea because it is thought that innovative solutions can emerge in the experiment and that the municipalities themselves have had an influence on what they are experimenting with. On the other hand, however, it does not make it possible to assess how this experiment will produce, for example, employment benefits or more efficient services. Since we have different groups, they cannot be compared. On this point, the committee noted that it welcomes the fact that the Government has launched a separate research project to assess the impact of experiments, but in this case it considers that the pilot scheme described in this government proposal is not very useful in assessing the impact on employment and the efficiency of services. It does not provide a reliable estimate of, for example, how many people the experiment helped to find employment or how many different services were enhanced as a result of the experiment. Here, in fact, is what is at the heart of this experiment. This was therefore the position of the majority in the committee. There have been two objections to this, which, as a general rule, criticise the extension of this rehabilitative work activity as an experiment in working life to companies, and these objections have made provision for the deletion of the articles which make this possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u234	Mr President! This is therefore a pilot law in which the municipalities involved in the experiment would be responsible in their regions for providing public employment and business services to the customer target group of the experiment. The municipality would be responsible for the customer's service process, including directing the customer to the services. Responsibility for the service process would also extend to the provision, activation planning and rehabilitation of a multidisciplinary joint service promoting employment. In the pilot regions, the TE Office would therefore not participate in the implementation of cross-sectoral joint services and in the development of an activation plan and rehabilitation plan for the target group. According to the bill, the experiment would start in August 2017 and end at the end of 2018. Local government orientation in hard-to-employ services is a good thing, and the municipal experiments during the last government term gave us excellent results in different parts of Finland. The duration of this experiment is so short that the results cannot be very widespread. Moreover, the proposed trial design is not very useful to assess the impact on employment or the efficiency of services. On the other hand, the timing of the experiment is also strange, since the government suggests, on the other hand, that in future employment services should be located in the regions and not in the municipalities. Personally, I really hope that the services of those who are hard to employ will continue to be municipal-driven. However, the working life orientation of the experiment is justified and the development and experimentation of comprehensive customer-oriented employment services is always worthwhile. In addition to a short trial period, however, there is another issue in the draft law that we Social Democrats cannot accept, and that is replacing rehabilitative work with what is known as a work experiment. The aim of the experiment is to experiment with a service that is suitable for those excluded from the public employment services due to social and health problems. It is proposed that work life trials should also be organised in enterprises. Rehabilitative work activities are intended for persons who are not capable of working, i.e. those who are not capable of normal labour market policies, such as subsidised work, work trials or training. Rehabilitative work activities are rehabilitation and if such a person is able to work in the company, it is unlikely that the customer of the rehabilitative work activity will be involved. There is therefore a risk that the abuse of rehabilitative work activities will increase, as more and more people who are already able to work will be directed to rehabilitative work after the government has reduced funding for paid work in organisations. As a result, many people who would be able to work, for example, on a pay subsidy, are now in a rehabilitating activity, i.e. in the wrong place. Furthermore, there is a risk that the introduction of a work experiment in this form will add to the current work experiment a new form of unpaid work, and that is something we cannot support. On the basis of the above, we will be tabling amendments to the articles tomorrow proposing the abolition of the experiment on working life from this draft law, and we will also propose an extension of the trial period.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u235	Mr President! I would like to pick up where the previous speaker left off: the experience of working life and the problems associated with it. For my part, I have tabled an objection to this motion by the Left Alliance, which, in substance, is much like the protest of the Social Democrats and the Greens, but which gives a little more reason for the reasons why experimenting with working life is not a good idea. However, we also had a relatively careful consultation of experts on the subject of working life trials, and all of us heard either a negative reaction or a very skeptical reaction to the idea that the work life experiment would be successful in practice. These doubts about the reality of this project were related to the fact that it is not very likely that companies would be very eager to participate in the work life experiment. It was only a few hours ago in this Chamber that we discussed how companies are already becoming quite a number of new students from vocational education and training to be trained when they have work experimenters, when they have recruiters, when they have disabled people in work and when they are under great pressure to find enough to do for these people. It is beginning to wonder whether employees and entrepreneurs will be able to fit in businesses there at all any longer, when the government is planning so many other jobs for companies as to whether there will be no more shots left to run the business. So our experts felt that even if this experiment were successful, it would remain marginal. Another problem with this experiment is that the rehabilitation of work in these areas where the work experiment is being carried out will, at least for that period, be abolished altogether. We have a lot of people who have little place or at least a better place than rehabilitative work and who personally feel that it has been very useful for their life management and everyday life. It is a pity if we have whole municipalities in which people who want to be rehabilitated do not have the opportunity to do so. And it is also, of course, an issue of equality. The third problem with this experiment in working life is that we already know that there are many wrong people in rehabilitating work, that is, those who do not want to, and those who do not belong there. According to the law, rehabilitative work is reserved only for persons whose situation and condition are not suitable even for part-time work or for any labour market policy measure. It is therefore a question of people whose lives are too difficult for them to attend, for example, various courses offered by TE Offices. If we go as the law says and work experience is really to be targeted at this group — that is, the group that has previously been involved in rehabilitating work — then we will have people in the workplace who do not have the resources to participate even in labour policy measures in the future. The only thing new about this experiment in working life is that these people can now be forced to work there — or to work in genuine working environments, as the law says — at the risk of losing basic income security. In fact, we already have Article 17 of the current Social Welfare Act which allows rehabilitation in the workplace. Until now, it has not been banned in any way, and the municipalities have been able to practice it. What is new here is that it can also be imposed if people are not willing to do so. Consider for yourself, if it were decided in this house to legislate that every person above a certain body mass index should, at the risk of a fine, take part in the Weight Watchers, how motivating it would be, how well it would work;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u239	Madam President! It is, in itself, honourable that this government has a clear enthusiasm for various experiments. We have to take a good look at it, but we are beginning to hope with these experiments when we remember that it was only at the beginning of this year that we had interviews with the unemployed every three months, and when we have yet to get a good result from these interviews: about half of the unemployed have only been interviewed once, when everything should have been interviewed twice at this point. This is now proving to be just a short experiment, which is to be completed at the end of the year, and we are going to move on to the activation model for the unemployed. Well, now we are talking about a work-life experiment, which is an experiment of its own, but it cannot be taken with great popularity either, because it is very problematic. The experiment is very short, it appears to the customers confused and does not allow other rehabilitation measures to be taken. It is equally problematic from the point of view of companies. Just yesterday I spoke to an entrepreneur who said that what should be done in this situation, now that it is proposed to me to consider taking an apprentice, taking an apprentice, would also be a person for a recruitment experiment, and now we have to think about experimenting with working life. In other words, entrepreneurs are also beginning to be reasonably confused in the midst of these experiments and various unpaid trainings, work trials. We have heard a great many professionals in committee, a great many experts on this, and as has already been said, no one has really been able to support this, or at least see it as a problem-free one. The rapporteur for the employment trials gave a good summary of his own work and proposed a wider experiment in which the pilot area would be responsible for the services of all the unemployed and would be transferred from the Employment and Economic Development Centres to the municipalities. He suggested that the experiment would allow customer-oriented support to be tailored flexibly across administrative and project boundaries as soon as unemployment started, and that the focus on encounters and all support and activities be based on an assessment of individual working capacity and competence. In addition to public employment services, it would include rehabilitation, education, health and social services, youth services, services for people with disabilities, active social policy and integration. And this last sentence is particularly important. It is worth noting that even the rapporteur for the employment trials strongly believes that the unemployed, especially those who have been unemployed for a long time, need a wide range of services, a wide range of assistance and support. The problem with this experiment in working life is that they now get the experience of companies, but other services would be impossible. When we talk about the hard-to-work long-term unemployed, it is worth remembering that the group has a lot of problems: substance abuse problems, mental health problems, and even those who do not have such diagnosed problems often have problems with life management or at least strong experiences of squatting in the workplace. That makes it difficult for me to imagine how, as it were, forcing them into working life would make them more motivated. Here we have just heard that not everyone is interested in working life or work. It is difficult for me to imagine how the motivation for an experiment in working life, which is therefore unpaid, can be increased. However, as has been said, it is also difficult to understand how it might interest companies. The company takes a considerable risk and a considerable burden in trying to direct such persons without any doubt. We also heard the leading economist of the State Economic Research Centre, and his outline of this experiment is quite clear. He says this: "The planned experiment does not follow any established implementation guidelines. In its current form, it is not very useful to assess the impact on employment or the efficiency of services. It does not provide an objective assessment of, for example, how many people the intervention that was being tested helped to find employment or how many different services became more effective as a result of the intervention. The follow-up of the experiment depends largely on subjective interviews and process assessments. It might not even take a heavy experiment to carry them out. As soon as the Regional Development and Services Act came into force, the surveys could be carried out just as well." Here are the reasons why we support Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's counter-opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u240	Mr President! Here we have heard from several mouths the blunderings that appear to be in this legislative process. The most regrettable thing about this is that, once again, the level of our legislation is being emphasised at the moment. Things look good on paper. That's what this looks like. Any attempt to bring the long-term unemployed back to work, back to society are good things and look good on paper. But when we have access to experts in this house — and, as the chairman of the committee said there, experts have also been used and experts have told us what they think — I feel that we are simply sitting in committee listening to experts if the government never takes account of expert opinions. Has it now become the case that the government instructs its own people behind the government’s presentations, so that the committees ignore what the experts say? This too should have been taken into account, and this would be much better. It is said here that people do not want to work, and it is said that such people must be put to work. No, first we need to find out why a person does not want to take a job, why he does not want to come out of his home, or why he does not want to come outside. Does he have an addiction that the employment service does not know or see on top of? Is he a drug addict, is he a drug addict, is he an alcoholic, is he having mental problems, is he depressed? These things should be sorted out before you put a stamp on your forehead: "You lazy, evil person do nothing at all". Man is created by two hands, two feet, all with them to do something he can do. But if you do not want to do so, what is the reason? There'll be someone there, or it could be just the thing this hall dictates, that is, the incentive trap. They had to be dismantled when this government program was made. They are mentioned in more than one paragraph, but very little success has been achieved with this dismantling operation. On the other hand, there have been more cartels, more sanctions, more sanctions. Just as much of this has been mentioned in the Chamber earlier today, vocational training, in which it was indeed emphasised that employers want to make and take these students there, because each degree is paid for. What the hell? As I understand it, business is done because this country is spinning, so that the entrepreneur can survive and so that the entrepreneur can hire employees for the kind of salary that lives on, so that the export of this country can be carried out, so that we have the money that comes from abroad to come here. Is it now the intention for the state to support all business activities, to pay for what, for example, to achieve a certain level of success for the student? In such cases, there is no need to engage in business activities. It's called training. For some strange reason, it seems now that the oatmeal and the wolverines are very badly mixed up. I can honestly say that I am terribly sorry to speak like this, but I am really confused. Now it is worth looking at what is in this government proposal, and then think about what the button is when it comes to voting on it. I'm sure I'll be behind the protests.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u241	Madam President! When reference was made here to my speech about coercioning or so on, I can understand these counter-arguments. But in one association, for example, we have many workers who are being rehabilitated directly from prison. They have spent two or three years in prison where they have been forced to accept work — you can refuse it there, but it is important to the community that you work there. Then, when they are released, their first goal is to get to work. And when they get into some kind of supported activity, then we have seen in many cases they also end up in the labour market. That I do not think this is so black and white as to keep this debate open that there are many options.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u242	Mr President! When there is talk of prisons and prison work, there is a problem in prison that there is no work there. There is cleaning for some, there is laundry or something like that for some, but not all who would like to work there, unfortunately. On top of that, you might want to get to know where people go when they get out of prison. We know that prisons in Finland are mostly dry places where there are no drugs. Nevertheless, every institution has an intoxicated ward. There's a little conflict here. As a result, a great many people come back from the stone house to civilian life through the Järvenpää Social Hospital or through another cutting-off site because they are addicts. However, it does not mean that they should not be employed — of course it is necessary to take them into work and rehabilitative work activities and so on. But that's not what's supposed to happen in that rehabilitation business.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u243	Mr President! When that first speech was a presentation of the majority of the committee's position, I thought I would make the right speech because I happened to belong to a minority in that committee this time who rejected this objection. In my opinion, the problem areas of this legislation are, in fact, summed up in three fundamental questions: the province and the market or the municipalities and partnership, rehabilitation by command and threat of toughness or by motivation and voluntary action, and then, shall we try for pleasure or for real purpose? So why the county and the market? We know that the government is planning to go into a regional model where the employment services are thinking of targeting the market in such a way that between 80 and 85 employees in the labour administration, up to 95 % in some estimates, would then be transferred to those companies that are going to provide these services. In the last parliamentary term, local authorities specifically sought partnerships, partnerships with enterprises, partnerships with associations, partnerships with their own service providers for the employment of the long-term unemployed and young people. As the municipalities that have been in this experiment during the last period have been assessed, there is a clear trend that in the municipalities where the experiment was taking place, long-term unemployment fell more than in other municipalities. I do not know how correct and relevant or appropriate that experiment has been, but I know that such a correlation can be found. In that sense, it could be said that municipalities have raised the problem of long-term unemployment and have also found some solutions, even though that legislation did not yet give as much freedom as this experiment would allow. So what about rehabilitation by motivation or coercion? When the legislation on rehabilitative work was built, I myself was opposed to the coercion that had been attached to it, not to the fact that we have a rehabilitative work activity, but to the fact that rehabilitation is being forced. I do not believe that a person is forced to learn, nor do I believe that a person is forced to undergo rehabilitation, but we must find and give birth to that motivation and help it to be born so that rehabilitation can start. During the last parliamentary term, I made a report to the Ministry of Labour on the functioning of the intermediate labour market, and there was an extensive interview with both the Employment and Economic Development Offices and the organisation field and the actors involved here in the context of labour policy and the intermediate labour market. It clearly showed that we very often get paid aid either to an organization or to a company or somewhere, and when that pay subsidy period ends, then they are directed to rehabilitative work. He has at first been able to work and he has been entitled to pay and, as it were, he has been able to give his own contribution, albeit with a slight decrease in productivity, and has therefore received a wage subsidy. When it was determined what the reasons for the pay subsidy were, as it were, to return to the beginning of the path and to rehabilitative work activities, it was sometimes a case of a breakdown in a person’s life, a situation that actually causes the ability to work to be weakened and the need for rehabilitation. But most of the situations were that there was no money for pay subsidies. It was the municipality's money that could be used for rehabilitating work activities, but there was no money from the TE administration for paid work. As a result, I myself suggested that, when municipalities have social and health policy, labour policies for those who are hard to employ should also be taken there, so that the money would be in the same bag, so that the right measure could be sought from the point of view of its client, and it would not be to look at which bag has the money, and on that basis the measure will be chosen. I still believe that the municipalities have a lot to offer here, and therefore it would be worthwhile, with real intentions, experimenting with this municipality and then experimenting with the subscriber-producer model and the market on the provincial side and seeing which brings a better result, and only then deciding where the employment services will eventually be located and where the responsibility for organising the services of the long-term unemployed lies. Well, in fact, I am a work-believer and I think it is right that if a person is offered a paid job, then that offer can be made at the risk of hardness, because it has to be done. I think so, if there is work available and there is work capacity, but rehabilitation is different. I also believe that if a person is forced into a rehabilitation effort, as it were, where he often does a good job-like activity, so that next door someone else may do the same thing or almost the same thing with a pay subsidy, then there is quite a bit of work and work in a deplorable operating culture. Also, it is important to see what is work and what is something else. I think that Mr Kontula described very well what the problems of rehabilitating work are and I think that Mr Järvinen described what the problems of our experimental culture are. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is in favour of experiments and believes that lessons should be learnt from them. But we'll have to figure out how those experiments are going. For example, at the moment we are in a situation where the government has advertised that recruitment is one of its new innovations on the labour market side, that interviews every three months have been major employment performances and that active use of passive labour market support has been a new, great innovation. I think all three of these things are worth trying out, and I support them. But why are all three of these issues missing from the government's growth service legislation, which is currently the subject of an opinion? I hope that they will indeed be taken there after the opinion, but in the version that has gone to the consultation, these things have not been included. Since the regions will only become fully operational later, it would make sense to extend this experiment in order to see what its results are, as is well described here from the point of view of the impact on employment and the development of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u244	At this stage, for the information of the representatives, air conditioning is broken because it has been struck by thunder, but it does not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u245	Mr President! As Mr Kontula said, among other things, the committee did not find a great deal of faith in the reasonableness of this experiment by experts, even by representatives of working life or employers. But what worries me most most is that we may not all have an idea of the resources and working capacity of the rehabilitative workers' customers, i.e. those who are the right clients of the rehabilitating work activities. All in all, there seems to be the idea that when people are forced into normal jobs, so-called normal jobs, that’s how it starts to work. However, the customer of rehabilitative work needs a lot of psychosocial rehabilitation, substance abuse rehabilitation, even learning life management skills. For some reason, for example, the importance of the intermediate labour market is not always seen as part of this promotion of employment capacity, and if the intermediate labour market is driven down, we will have a really important tool to help people to rehabilitate their own lives, to be a meaningful member of society and then to work in the open labour market. Mr President! Yesterday I was here with Mr Kontula to talk about the report on the future, that is, there were a few women there, and I already said yesterday in that speech that it is strange, even in that report, that nothing is said about those who are able to work part-time, as if they were not working at all in the future. I've been thinking a lot lately about what I heard Professor Mikko Mäntysaari asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u246	Mr President! A few words about this debate on unemployability, which is always taking root in this Chamber, surprisingly often in view of the fact that no research supports the idea that Finns are in general somewhat unworkable or that the young generation is somehow less willing to work than the older generation or that there is a particularly widespread lack of willingness to work among the unemployed. On the other hand, we do have research that, especially among the upper middle class and the elite, but to an ever-expanding extent also among the people, there is a strong concern about the desire of others to work. So the lack of willingness to work as a phenomenon does not seem to be true, but the concern for lack of willingness to work is true. And I am paying particular attention to this now because I feel that this very strongly guides our labour policy, quite unnecessarily strongly, when, however, we have all the evidence that if there is someone who is not willing to work there, it is certainly not a statistically significant person. Hey, we live in a country where people go to work nice on Monday after they win the lottery on Saturday. In a country like this, we are concerned that people do not want to work. Rather, I personally would think that a little less hard work and carefulness could be really good for our business. Perhaps then we could get out of that product improvement mode to make the genuinely new innovations that Finland produces far less than in our control countries. Above all, a small relaxation of the pink culture would certainly help our labour policy in such a way that it would be more effective and sensible from the point of view of the unemployed. Personally, I believe that all labour market policy measures are worth experimenting with as long as they are voluntary. That is why I supported, for example, the rekrykei. I didn't believe it, I thought it was a silly idea, but I thought that if this works for someone now, which I am to stop it from experimenting with. Well, so far the recry experiment has been very little popular, but no one has been harmed. Instead, what I do not support is that people are being imposed, at the risk of losing minimum income security, to work that they do not have the ability, the strength and the opportunity to do. If a person does not go into rehabilitative work activities, or in this case in the future work life trials, he can first be deprived of that unemployment benefit, but he can also be deprived of his EUR 487 income support by 20% and then if he says no for the second time, then another 20%. We have people who have lived in this country for a long time for EUR 292 a month — EUR 292 — and everyone thinks it is fine. I've been following one of these people around for a long time. He did not even know about these sanctions against him because he was not able to find out why the money came from social security so little. He has held on by then eating the cheapest foods and leaving the vegetables away for months and thought that this is just the way it should be that this is the part society gives him. It is a person who has not been able to get out of his home for many years — no one has even been there to ask questions. And when he had not been able to attend the meeting in which he had been given an assignment, his support had only been reduced but no one had bothered to explain what was at the end of it. The person is willing to work, but he would need a little more support than putting a note in his home, that now you will receive only 60 percent of the small income support. That's not how the world changes. That's not how people do things. The unemployed are just like everyone else. They are helped by the same incentives as everyone else. Disciplining people in hunger has never been an effective way to motivate anyone. And it is not in line with the values and objectives of this society. To the end of just a few words about these experiments: I think it's great to try different things, but now this experimental culture of ours is going in the wrong direction. We are launching a huge number of experiments in which officials who do not have the skills to prepare for research are preparing these experiments very far. Researchers will then be involved when the main scaffolding has already been erected, possibly at a time when the experiment has been going on for quite a long time. And even at this point, it may not even be possible to tell these researchers what they want to try here, which is the question of research to which they should be given an answer. If you want to try things out, the team of researchers must be involved when the experiment is being planned and there must be some idea of what this experiment is trying to find out what it is that you want to try. There must then be sufficient resources and a plan for collecting data from the experiment, and then a plan for what to do with the data collected. Now, in this section, all three of these areas are missing. The problem here is that this is by no means the only experiment so badly drawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u247	Mr President! It is good that these experiments are being carried out with the aim of getting people to work and to get them out of the pipeline of unemployment and inactivity. I leave it to the wiser to judge whether it is coercion or exhorting or even tempting. But what is behind all this, though, is that a person can be activated by some means, and for this we do of course have the employment authorities in some respects, then there are many NGOs, many congregations doing the same thing, and all of these are motivated by one thing: the will to get that person moving. Think of it, ladies and gentlemen, the unemployed person if he were not made of some sort, let me say, more active invitations to join the labour force — he could even be tailored to the job, I know many cases in my region that this is how people have been mobilised, and many of them have even been employed. Then think of these people at a later age, when their retirement age comes, unless there is a pension provision acquired during working hours. That is what is worsening their current weak financial position during the retirement period, when there is no income, especially when small contributions have been paid for low labour incomes in due course — then the pension that will come in due course will be very small. That is why society is taking this activation measure, and the only effective activation measure in my opinion is that we can make Finnish working life run so effectively that jobs are created, new jobs are created in different parts of Finland, and the job supply is, even actively, provided by employers that someone should come to a job that so far has not been able to get people to work. So this is the right way. Of course, every successful company is aiming to continue to succeed, and then we are trying to fulfil the various tasks as we get the workforce, and in this situation, the various experiments are more expensive than gold.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u248	Mr President! Indeed, it is very important that these experiments are also carried out in order to promote employment management and employment, when, after the last term of government, the results were indeed that there were around 100,000 more unemployed and that long-term unemployment only increased. It is very important that the municipalities are now involved in this experiment, in this multidisciplinary cooperation. We have long-standing experience in the municipality of Paltamo when we are currently responsible for the management of employment in four municipalities. As the only municipality, we outsourced this to an association that was running this business. This was part of the Paltamo employment experiment, and we are now in charge of the management of employment in four municipalities. The doctrine that is essential is that it is precisely a cross-cutting one: it is a place where people discover people’s illnesses, for example, if people have had diabetes or dyslexia. These then survived in this comprehensive, multidisciplinary cooperation that has prevented the employment of these people. They were offered occupational health care, for example, and, at the time of the experiment — which was a good experiment, unfortunately, the then Ministry of Labour simply cut off this experiment directly before it ended — precisely to encourage people to take up work and to collect these different forms of social security as a uniform salary in order to ensure that people would also receive that pension. This was a good and activating model and should have involved entrepreneurs more and more. What would be particularly important is that, in the management of employment and in these employment aids, it is precisely with employers that we should find those models to find those good workers — when it has been difficult for employers in particular — and our social security system and the unemployment security system have been such that it has been clearly passive for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u249	Mr President! After all, we have discussed the way in which these sanctions are being activated — whether they are in the background or whether they are being imposed in some other way. We are used to talking a lot about the Danish model here in Finland and to considering it good, and I also support many of the elements in the Danish model. But when you look at the Danish model in more detail, there is a very strict obligation to take different measures, but there is very little use of carnival. When I was there to visit, I asked how it is with these roughnesses, how often do you use them? The answer was that oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So there is a very flexible system from this point of view. But the strength of that model lies in the fact that there are many people there who help the unemployed, whether they are in multi-professional services or on the side of labour market policy. I think the problem with Finland is that we always think that these matters are dealt with by legislation — that we are changing the carnage practices or changing some service paths or some of the articles in the laws — but we forget that the service is provided by people. Whether it's about organizations and this kind of comparison, whether it's social services, adult social work, health care or employment services, so without the people who provide the service and the unemployed along the way help, our service systems will not be more efficient, no matter how much we try to change here. So I hope that if we want to go towards the Danish model, we will see that its strength is the people who work alongside the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u250	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Hoskose on activation and the need for it, but this experiment does not respond to Mr Hoskonen's wish for these rehabilitating clients. Otherwise, there are a lot of positive elements in this experiment. But when the customers of rehabilitating work activities, if they are really the right clients of rehabilitating work activities, are not able to work. That is why even these employers are not enthusiastic about this experiment — when we in the committee also listened to employers’ representatives — because companies do not have the capacity, for example, to direct life skills management or other such rehabilitation measures. This is now the problem that comes up against us with this bill and this experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u251	At this point, you can reserve the P button by clicking on the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u252	Mr President! It's a bit of a crossover, but it's not bad. I'd like to see the third generation unemployed. [MarisannaJarva shouts]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u253	Mr President! In the end, work is probably the best social security in all situations. We must welcome the fact that the economy has now achieved this turnaround. There have been references to previous years and how unemployment got worse. Fortunately, we now have the economy back on the path of growth, and employment is also improving. At the same time, unemployment has fallen. There are now also some positive signs of long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. After all, today the Ministry of Finance also significantly revised its own growth forecast from the economy to even double the previous one. This is a good sign, of course, and we must hope that this economic growth will continue. We need to find more work to do, and it is precisely to get more real jobs in this country, and so that work and workers also meet. We already have situations where there are no employees for all jobs and everywhere, and then unemployment rates are still high. Of course, we have to work on this. But in the end, the best situation is for us to achieve growth, economic growth and more jobs in this country. I'm sure it's the best solution for every person. But it is also true that we need those measures for young people, for example, that they stick to the periphery of everyday life and the normal rhythm of waking up in the morning and going somewhere in the morning. As a former teacher himself — or as a teacher today — I know of situations, such as vocational education, for example, that young people have had to apply for integration into school. Of course, you're already on the road to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u254	Mr President! Quite rightly, as Mr Heinonen has just mentioned in his speech, we are seeking young people from home to study a certain profession, or some kind of work activity that is best for him at the time. There are many of these systems. I don't even know them all. In my previous speech, I certainly did not mean to force you to do so in the real sense, but to give you options, to encourage you to go to work, to take a course or wherever you want to go, because if that person stays there, it will be a hundred percent excluded person in the next few years, and getting him back on track will be more and more difficult to get into normal life. This is our human duty too. This is not a labour market, industrial policy or enterprise policy perspective. This is a purely human perspective of involving that person in society as an active actor. That's the idea. As Mr Heinonen mentioned in his speech, it will create jobs when companies operate and generate profits — every company that works must make profits, be able to pay wages and social obligations to carry out and develop the business forward — and then offer jobs that can be done with less professional skills, quite certainly can provide a job that does not necessarily need to be highly skilled right away. But when a person is brought into the work by some means gradually, it is always a victory. It is a victory for him personally, which is the most important thing. The person who is becoming marginalised is the worst option for all of us, and humanly speaking it is also a tragedy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u255	Mr President! Indeed, as a municipal decision-maker, now in second place as chairman of the council, we have had the management of employment very closely discussed. Especially for the long-term unemployed, there is a strong experience of the means to help them. Indeed, it does not help that the home is paid and not encouraged to take up a job and not to seek or offer those alternatives. It's got to be that community support. It's got to be the rhythm of the day. These were the most important lessons to be learned from this employment experiment for the long-term unemployed: that they should be offered the specific daily cycle, that they should be offered those jobs, even if supported, and that we should find the solutions that have been the obstacles to employment. This comment is from the third generation unemployed: it is not advisable for him to go to work when it becomes cheaper for him and in all ways easier to stay at home. This is truly from the mouth of a youth like this. And I believe the unemployed here better than we, who work well here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u256	Mr President! If a TES salary had been offered for the job, I do not believe that a young person in Paltamo can receive such good social security that he would not be financially worth going to work. The difference is that taking a job is so confusing to his economy, because our social security system is so difficult, it puts him in such a risky situation that he is therefore not in favour of taking up that job. Some time ago I listened to a social worker who is working with those very difficult people, who is looking for people at their home, and who is directing them to various kinds of support, services and assistance. He said that he did not have much time to do his job because nothing should be done with people until their livelihoods are secure, and that when they go around with a customer taking a ticket and a note to Kela and Social Services and where they go, all the working hours that he has reserved for that customer go. That if you got the social security you don't have to spend hours with, then maybe he'd have time to pick up those people at home to do what he's been trained to do, that's the social work. Mr Heinonen, will you tell us again, when we are talking about an unpaid job experiment, in what way this work is now the best social security for these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u257	Mr President! I have been listening to this discussion for a while, and I have to say first of all that I myself have been involved in implementing rehabilitative work activities and also in organising a project in which such rehabilitative work activities have been carried out. I find it very difficult to understand and understand how this unpaid work-life experiment would somehow target those people who may have been out of work for several years, their life management may have been very difficult in many ways, they may have various illnesses, mental health problems, substance abuse problems, and at the point when they want to go through rehabilitating work to take control of life management, it will be carried on in a tailor-made way, perhaps a few hours a day, a few hours a week, and then programmed the rhythm of life. I am convinced that companies such as them will not be able to take people there to rehabilitate, nor will the company be the right place to rehabilitate these people in the form of a work experiment. In that sense, I see this as a completely different type of approach, and I cannot accept this kind of unpaid work-life experiment. I sign and I agree with exactly that this kind of experiment should not be carried out, but rather we should develop and put the stakes in the development of real rehabilitating work in such a way that there are those people who belong there, and then those people who are, for example, on pay support
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u258	Mr President! Apparently, even in this family that I was talking about today, all the subsidies that that family receives when they have all been unemployed for three generations there must have been calculated. They've calculated that they shouldn't go to work. Indeed, this is the kind of system we have created. All the experiments, especially when we are not even moving — the whole model is not yet changing, but it is precisely through the experiment that progress is being made in how we can specifically provide people with help to support their employment — are very important. Then, with regard to social security, we will finally be able to test basic income, which is a long-term objective, and it is precisely to encourage people to take up work and that basic social security for people will be guaranteed. After all, the present system has been such that if you accept even a short piece of work, you can even get a temper for it. This has been shocking in what kind of work culture we are encouraged to do, and young people will be won from an early age. I hope this changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u259	Mr President! I personally believe that work is the best form of social security, and I do not understand and it does not suggest that this is a permanent situation, that someone should be forced into this type of activity for the rest of their lives. No, of course not, but it is precisely the purpose of this to act as a certain bridge, so that the right work is taken away from it. That is why I said here that, under this current government, economic trends have been reversed, new jobs are created, unemployment is falling. Hopefully, as many of these people as possible will find a job when they catch that job in the off-site. For example, a couple of weeks ago I went to Riihimäki to get to know one company where more than one person had been, and with one exception, everyone had found a job through them and got the right job, and then the job is the best social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u260	Mr President! Congressman Heinonen came to the debate a little later, [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u261	Mr President! Mr Kontula must be told that the centre has been thinking about basic income testing and planning from there until the end of the 1980s — it is not quite so new. But from this experiment: This is where Finnish society is still being taken into the new culture. That planning, the paper stage through practical experimentation, learns from mistakes and develops things in everyday life, and so here too in the case of employment services. It is indeed true that employment services as a whole are currently very fragmented and difficult to achieve, and the aim of this proposed experiment is to develop comprehensive, customer-oriented, employment-friendly services and to include social and health services in them as well, so that the whole is in control. This will develop cross-administrative service paths and then seek to promote the employment of job seekers, particularly those in difficult employment situations. I think that these new, border-breaking experiments are very welcome. This is therefore done on a regional and time-limited basis. We can see if this works. If it does not, then there will be no major reform with this. However, I am in favour of such experimental and practical activities in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u262	Mr President! I came to this conversation a little late and I wasn't there to hear the beginning, but clearly the atmosphere is getting hotter in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u265	Mr President! Mr Kosonen, basic income is definitely something that should be tried out, but if you had knowledge of basic income in the centre as early as the 1980s, why did you carry out an incentive test instead of a basic income test if you wanted to try basic income? This is not a basic income test according to the definition of any international or Finnish basic income debate. [HannaKosonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u266	Mr President! Work is more than just a livelihood. The work enhances the individual’s dignity and connects colleagues with the community and society. At best, work brings key content to life. Work really is the best social security, as has already been said in this Chamber. The work must always be financially worthwhile. A society that pays better for inactivity than for work is never on a sustainable basis. There is still much to be done to reform social security in a more supportive and inclusive direction, and that work needs to be continued. Simplification of the service system is also an important objective. The government has decided to prepare for a major overall reform of social security, and for that too, the experiments are good and will help to achieve this successful reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u267	Mr President! I feel like we're talking a little bit about different things. I myself believe that work is much more important than mere livelihood, but this bill does not suggest that people are put to work, but that this bill proposes that people who are unable to work should be put into business for a trial of working life, and this has been criticised here. As far as this pilot scheme is concerned, the committee agreed that the proposed trial period was too short to produce proper results, and the committee considered this shortness to be problematic both for the achievement of the objectives set for the experiment and for the assessment of the effectiveness of the experiment, and also stated that "the proposed experiment, according to the study presented, did not specify in detail the target groups or the way in which the experiment was to be carried out" because it wanted to offer a wide range of possibilities, and "the committee considers that the proposed test plan is not very useful to assess the impact on employment or the efficiency of services. It does not provide a reliable estimate of, for example, how many people the experiment helped to find employment and how many different services were enhanced as a result of the experiment." So it is not a question of criticising the fact that even these things are being tried out; it is a question of not getting the benefit of this experiment. As far as basic income testing is concerned, it actually tries the exact opposite, that is, if a person has been able to work and has been on labour market support for a long time, then is he more active in the labour market when he does not have a sanction on him, or is he more passive then? This is the result of that basic income experiment, but not the results that are usually expected from the basic income experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u268	Mr President! After all, many people have expressed their disappointment about this basic income experiment, as has been the case in this Chamber this evening, but for example, Heikki Hiilamo has said that this basic income experiment and its preparation have been very ambitious and that this really aims to increase the number of jobs. Anyone who has familiarised himself with this government proposal for a basic income experiment will notice what Hiilamok writes here that "the work of knitting the experiment even inside the social security system has taken a great deal of work. A total of 27 different laws are already mentioned in the definition of the target group of beneficiaries of basic income.' This is about what our social security system is like. It has been done over many years, quilted and interpreted, and this is what we now have as a result. This basic income experiment is truly internationally taken into account in a number of major publications and magazines. We now have a very fine position in Finland to try out how this works — albeit in a limited part of the population, but still — and then to reconsider whether we can expand it and what kind of model in Finland would work: a clear, simpler model than we currently have in social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u269	Mr President! Mr Kosonen, at least I am not disappointed with the basic income experiment, I think it is an excellent experiment, it is methodically very well done. It's just not a basic income experiment — nothing else is wrong with it. They try interesting things, but they don't try basic income. I look forward with interest and enthusiasm to the results that will come out of it, and I intend to take advantage of them, but with regard to the basic income, it does not provide us with any further information. This is the central problem, it has been misnamed, and in this respect I would have liked to have been given more free hands by the examiners who drew it up or, alternatively, already asked someone to join in the initials who knows what the basic income is. Mr Vikman, we are talking here about working life experimentation, and you are taking the floor about how it raises self-esteem, linking it to the working community.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u273	Mr President! This debate has now been extended to the basic income experiment, but it is an essential question in that it is the exact opposite of what is being tried out here, and in that sense it is good to discuss these different directions. That so-called basic income test can only be included if you are covered by labour market support, i.e. if you are not covered by earnings-related benefits. I think it has a very good background and a study which has been carried out, which really shows how much social security is linked to each other. But it does not change but one element of our social security system, namely that if an unemployed person is a job seeker with labour market support, he will not have to comply with the obligations of labour policy legislation if he does not have children, and if he does have children, he will lose his child promotion if he does not jump into every jump he is presented to from the Employment and Economic Development Office. We will see in the future whether such people are more active in the labour market, whether they are more actively seeking employment if they receive a better financial reward for that job than those unemployed in a similar situation whose unemployment benefit is cut from low wages. This is the end result, and I think that it will get a lot of us into this debate, whether it encourages the people who are unemployed or whether money also encourages them, as it is said to encourage us people who work in general, especially those who are better off.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u274	Mr President! You, Mr Kontula, criticised the very fact that I spoke in this debate about the importance of work. For I have just answered your earlier question to Mr Heinos when you called for an answer to the fact that what value does work have other than pay. Pay is important, but work is much more than livelihood. With this I answered your question and I also spoke about these experiments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u275	Mr President! Mr Kontula is now confusingly confusing things, hopefully on purpose and not by accident. As Mr Vikman said there, he talked about work in general, so at least I understood here on the right side of the hall and I believe that even on the left side of the hall was understood. Of course, work, as Mr Filatov also pointed out, has many other meanings than just making a living. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u276	Mr President! This is indeed an experiment, and the intention is indeed to help the unemployed once again into working life, and I am surprised that we are talking about people who are completely unable to work in this debate. I understand that if you are a disabled person, then such a person belongs to a disability pension, [Jari Myllykoski’s interlude] I certainly do not deny that people want to be employed, but it is not for people to blame that our own system has really caused this passive force, it is for our decision-makers themselves. It is also our responsibility to develop this system in such a way that people should always accept work. In this sense, there must be an encouraging model that we will not pass people, but that this basic income, this basic social protection, will in future have to be of the kind that you will not lose your support if you really do accept work. It must also be possible in the future in relation to lantern-time work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u277	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, according to his own words, Mr Vikman answered my question, which I asked earlier, about the experience of working life, and which is, by the way, the subject we have here today. [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u278	Mr President! Mr Kontula referred to the basic rules, the basic rules of society. The basic starting point for society, at least for the assembly, is that the livelihood of a capable person comes from work. If there is no work or a person is incapacitated, then social safety nets must operate and there is social security for such situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u279	Yes, Mr Vikman, we are dealing here with the experiment of working life, which is not about people who are capable of working but who are unable to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u280	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 5/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u281	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I was thinking of talking about this issue, which is now under discussion, namely the government's proposal, which is part of a series in which the government of our country wants to respond quickly to a changed and tense security situation and to new kinds of threats. We have reform of the legislation and reception of international aid. We are now in the process of adopting intelligence legislation, which we have also discussed today. The Defence Forces have been reformed from the point of view of material as well as operational capability but also operational speed. This proposal now responds to the so-called hybrid gap in our Regional Control Act, that is, the gap between the green men. This reform amends the Regional Control Act so that we also have the opportunity to defend ourselves against the unmarked soldiers who, following the war in Ukraine, became the name of the 'green man'. After all, the Green Men first came to the territory of Ukraine in Crimea, and through it the territory was taken. This has proved to be a territorial claim by the Russians, which therefore used unmarked soldiers who operate without government credentials. The appearance of green men, for example, in the territory of our country after this legislation is classified as an insult to Finland by foreign power. This proposal will therefore bring our legislation more fully into line with the changed security situation and new kinds of threats. From the point of view of the Regional Control Act, a non-identifiable military group shall mean a group of persons acting on behalf of, or with the consent of a foreign State which is militarily organised, armed or armed and which, however, cannot be identified as being of state origin. The Act provides for an absolute ban on such groups to come to Finland and be in Finland, the violation of which has been criminalised in the future by the Criminal Code. Thus, the powers of the Regional Surveillance Act could also be assigned to a non-identifiable military group throughout Finland, while the responsibilities and tasks of the authorities remain unchanged. Mr President! When we had a debate on the referral of this motion, the proposal received a very broad and uniform support in this Chamber. Then I myself hoped that the law would be dealt with quickly and enforced. I must say that it is a great thing that this law is now coming into force at this rate. This has been the case in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has issued an opinion, and since then we in the Committee on Defence have been going through a thorough matter. With this, we will now be able to fill that gap between the green men and our legislation, that is, this hybrid. This is in a certain way related to the fact that today is no longer necessarily a clear start to this kind of conflict, which, for example, began in Ukraine. Few people are able to say at what point war or military action began there, but it was a slowly moving process in which Russia used unmarked soldiers, at least at an early stage and also at a later stage. In other words, war may no longer have a clear starting point, a declaration of war, and then it may not have a clear end point, but rather a series of conflicts of this kind which we can talk about in Ukraine. Mr President! I welcome the fact that these reforms are now being carried out in Finland. At the same time, changes have been made to the legislation on land acquisition and also to the legislation on dual nationality for these military posts, which are therefore not part of the whole which we discussed yesterday, which extended the scope of safety assessments, but, in the future, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence will consider and prepare a proposal which could also limit such key tasks so that only Finnish citizens can act in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u282	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Defence on the amendment of the Regional Control Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code is extremely timely. There is a widespread phenomenon in the world where soldiers or persons dressed in military style enter the territory of another country, these green men, and we have received more information about these phenomena during the news of recent days, including Ukraine. This phenomenon in itself is extremely dangerous and it is these hybrid threats of today that the state should react to so that the legislation is up-to-date. I'm sure a lot of people outside this house are wondering why this kind of law is needed. The basic truth is that, in public action, everything must be based on law and the law must be strictly observed, that is, the authorities, in this case military personnel and soldiers, cannot do anything unless they have the legal opportunity to act when the time comes. This amendment to the Regional Control Act now ensures that our soldiers, the Defence Forces and the Border Guards have the opportunity, if necessary, to act immediately, because the law allows it. It is quite right that this missing small gap in the functioning of the Finnish Defence Forces and the authorities in general is now being filled and that this is the way to combat the hostile behaviour that would be directed to Finland from outside our borders, and precisely so that these unrecognised soldiers can then be combated by legal means in this country if such a situation arises. There are, of course, very specific provisions for this in the explanatory statement of the law. Then there has certainly also been a careful discussion with the Defence Forces during the preparatory work, what sections should be, that they meet the need for which they have been drawn up. The Committee notes that Finland's foreign and security policy environment has changed and that this change in the operating environment must be responded to immediately and that the various measures that create instability must also be combated effectively and quickly. It is worth remembering that if you ever get involved in such a situation, it is truly urgent. We can't stay here and think about what we're gonna do. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed the matter, discussed the use of these forces and how they are placed in the Finnish Constitution and its articles and letters. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that there are no problems with the order of things. This definition of how a non-identifiable soldier can be defined is recorded here in the report. It is stated here that a non-confessional military group is defined in Article 2(5)(a) of the proposal for a regulation as ‘a military division’, ‘a number of foreign states’, ‘a group of parties’ or ‘participants’, which are militaryly organised, equipped or armed, which cannot be identified as State origin. In those countries where this has already happened, it is known that it will be a serious situation when such a situation arises, but in Finland this situation will be brought into order by the amendment of this law and the legislation will be updated. Mr President! Finally, I hope that the intelligence law currently in the consultation process will now be there for the various parties to say that when the law is obtained from the consultation, it will come to this house as quickly as possible. In order to combat such hybrid threats, this means that Finland needs to be up-to-date with its intelligence legislation, and Finland is the only country in Western Europe that does not yet have this up-to-date intelligence law. So this law is extremely important and now we have to get it adopted before Midsummer. This intelligence law must be brought into this house as soon as possible and approved as it is not effective enough to prepare for any such hybrid threat unless the intelligence laws are up-to-date.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u284	Mr President! This bill for the amendment of the Regional Control Act sounds strange in that way, because I myself at least wonder how to define a group which is not militaryly identifiable, but the committee has satisfied itself with this statement and stated that it is a fairly good definition, which is written here in the detailed explanatory statement, that the characteristics of a military group can be regarded as being, for example, two or more persons of a fixed size, clearly structured and subject to joint management or command with foreign state armed forces or otherwise under the direction of a foreign state. So it is not just any gang, any group that could suddenly be shepherded in some direction under this law. The need for this law has come from what is known as hybrid warfare — that is to say, from warfare, which does not necessarily come either by declaration or by date and by time, that war begins now, but gradually by means of various means — where it is also possible, of course, to use the paralysing of society not only of people and troops, but also of electricity networks, energy distribution or transport infrastructure, or of some other destruction or weakening, but here we are trying to address the fact that there is, however, some sort of organized force, which would then come within the borders of Finland and start operating. It was a little confusing in the referral that there was a lot of discussion there about the fact that, when we have this terrorist threat, it would then be the basis for this amendment to the Regional Control Act. However, we still have the role of police in the future to take care of organised crime, the fight against terrorism and illegal entry, all of which the police can ask the Defence Forces for help — they can ask, and then the Defence Forces will consider whether they can do so. In this report, cooperation has been recorded, that is to say, when we have the situation, that the police carry out the tasks that have just been mentioned and that our border control is responsible for the control of all external borders, so that they are probably the first to face those situations if a group of people is trying to come in here to Finland, and how this cooperation in the fields of the Defence Forces, the police and border control works in such a way that everyone's powers and the decision-making capacity work as well as possible. The situation that this kind of group would come, is of course found in this area control law, where now it is decided or ordered that these should be reported if there is even a suspicion of that area violation. That announcement must be made to both the Defence Forces and the Raja, and on the other hand, a point was added to the Penal Code, where these unmarked troops have also been taken into account. But, despite this, this cooperation is not necessarily clear, who will be the first to face this kind of group or who will decide that this is precisely the group and the activity under this definition, and that is why the report has been carefully sought to record this practice, because it is a matter of functionality and the decision-making system, that we will not have empty gaps so that we will suddenly find that it is not enough for any of these authorities, and that there is no situation where it is stated that there is no one, who is leading and who is taking decisions, and the lack of clarity as to which law we are going to proceed in this and this situation. That is why this law is needed, but a great deal of cooperation is needed in order to succeed after the exercises.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u285	Mr President! As has been said, the foreign and security policy environment has changed in Finland and around the world, and it is really important to ensure that our authorities' powers of action are up-to-date. That intelligence law, which is on its way, is a good example of this. In this way, we are filling gaps that prevent effective preparedness and intervention in a crisis situation, and we are addressing the powers of the Regional Surveillance Act and a non-identifiable military group that violates the Regional Surveillance Act. This does not really change the decision-making mechanisms or the relationship of powers between the authorities, nor does it create any additional powers, but it does so within the framework of previous laws. In the previous speech, the characteristics of an unmarked military group were examined, and it is good to open them by example, so that we really know what kind of group we are dealing with. This is very important, as the committee says here, that, in the case of practical application, its definition should indeed be sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u286	Mr President! The Government deserves to be commended for the fact that it has taken off to bring forward a number of legislative projects that are extremely important for Finland's defence and security in a timely manner. One example is this amendment of the law that we are debating here today. The main objective of the Government’s proposal is to bring Finland’s legislation on the protection and control of territorial integrity more fully into line with the changed security situation and new types of threats. It is very necessary that the Regional Surveillance Act be amended so that the scope of the law also includes a military threat which cannot be directly identified by external characteristics. The law provides for provisions allowing the use of force in the event of regional violations also for military activities of unknown origin. This change is very welcome. With regard to these major legislative projects relevant to Finland’s security, I agree with the wishes expressed earlier in this debate that the intelligence laws should now actually move forward quickly and enter into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u287	Mr President! This is really interesting and actually a little funny when it comes to green men in the context of a serious legislative issue. It is quite right how Mr Paatero said that it could not just be a gang or a group but must be equipped with specific characteristics in order to create a criminal content which constitutes the conditions for criminal prosecution. It is essential that this work from start to finish. Interestingly, when three or four Germans went for four minutes to drink beer in the territory of foreign power, they did not fill the hallmark. I'm sure they'll be punished, but under different legal provisions. This is welcome and fully corresponds to what has now been seen in the world and may pose a threat to modern intelligence methods.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u288	Mr President! There is a proposal to respond to these threats, which has occurred in this area around Finland in recent years and which can be thought to be a certain threat in our country as well. It is important that legislation is also progressing in such a way that these threats can be met. It is important that in the future our legislation recognizes such an unmarked military group, even though they are not wearing military suits. More specifically, a group refers to a group which is comparable to a military department, acting on behalf of a foreign state, on behalf of or with the consent of a foreign state, which is militarily organised, armed or armed and whose state origin cannot be identified. It is also important that this legislation does not increase the specific powers of the authorities, but yet this set of measures can be identified, so to speak, so that the authorities can operate within the framework of the legislation. It is also worth noting that if you think that there are troops across national borders that do not belong here and are, as it were, about to approach our country, they are, in practice, often local people in the region which is the first to make these observations. It is important that this competence is also clear when it comes to information from the authorities on how to do things in this situation. It is good to remember that more than 70 years ago, the last time we fought wars, they have been, for example, on the edge of the Suomussalmi border by civilian people who have made their first remarks about soldiers. Here, too, holds this particular information
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u289	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about these rapid reforms, which have therefore arisen from a changed situation in the security environment, and also about the fact that war or war have changed in many ways. There have been new security threats of this kind, which is what this legislation seeks to do to prevent the gap between the so-called green men. On the other hand, the same is true of land procurement legislation, which has also been clarified, and measures have been taken by Minister of Defence Niinistö with merit, so that we are prepared not to sell our land, for example, from such areas, not to Finns but, above all, to foreigners, to create situations where such a property could be used, for example, to close sea roads, disrupt radio links or communications links, or to paralyse the electricity network. In these, we just need to be much more awake than we have long been accustomed to, for the world around us has changed faster than we have ever seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u290	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 11/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u291	Mr President! This is a very important legislation in relation to our energy debate and our emissions debate in the sense that, within the framework of this law, we are now opening up closed networks to open up open competition so that small producers, small bio-plants in different regions and so on, are also able to compete openly with both pipeline gas and LNG gas, and form a whole that creates a fuel system with a large number of alternatives in Finland for cars, industry, plants, heating and so on. This is a most welcome reform and is sure to compete with the electric car market, among other things, with high-speed gas supply systems. We have read in the papers that Gasum, a former monopoly company of ours, has had plans to increase a fast network across the country, and it will start in the autumn. I believe that small plants and small refineries, the gas refineries, are also in competition here and are operating quickly locally, so that soon the gas car will be quite competitive with the electric car in this country. It's welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u292	Mr President! This time it is the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the government's proposal for a law on the natural gas market. After all, a historic change is taking place in the amendment of this law when the Finnish closed gas market ends in this bill, and there is no need for any greater communique or celebrations, but now that the gas network is being opened up to free competition, the era of Russian trade, which has so far been within the closed network, when only a pipeline has come to Finland and nothing else has been, ends now. In general, the world's history has been that when the market opens up, it has generally had a very economical impact on the article being sold, i.e. prices in general have fallen as availability improves. It also means that when there is gas in the market, then we have more than one supply point, and that is also a good thing in itself that we are not dependent on one supplier. This certainly does not mean that we are deliberately going to reduce or weaken trade with Russia, not in any case, but that it is a question of diversification. After all, Russia itself is building: as we know, there is already one pipeline of natural gas at the bottom of the Baltic Sea towards the European market and another is being planned. So this is no place for Finland to be afraid of anything if the market is opened up. That is what our Eastern trading partner is doing, and it is good that the market is improving. When there's a deal, there's probably less fighting. The Finnish market has so far been in a very exceptional situation because of this gas supply, but we are now entering a new era, and there is also a realistic reason why natural gas has become less competitive. Its consumption has fallen by about 30% in recent years, and now this opening-up of the market is aimed at ensuring that, while we know that the market price for coal will rise due to these climate-related emission trading sanctions, this will diversify the possibility of supplying gas — both natural gas and biogas — to the markets opened up by this new law. Of course, it is fossil gas, which is natural gas, but it still burns very cleanly. For example, Finnish ships or big diesel locomotives can be mentioned as one of the disciplines: We often talk about whether we should electrify the Finnish rail network completely and thus create a cleaner way of transport to this country. I think it is a good objective to have as many electric lines as possible, but it must also be remembered that the current technology, LNG or biogas, can run on a diesel locomotive just as cleanly. In other words, if there are low-speed lines, then there is no point in going into that expensive electrification at all, as this will ensure the cleanliness of diesel locomotives for a long time to come. Getting this biogas into the network that might be released there is a good thing, and now we know that now that the transport network is being built, we are in the process of being connected to those Baltic countries, that is to say, we have already concluded an agreement with Estonia that the Balticconnector pipeline from Estonia will be built here to Finland. There is also the fact that Finland is getting EUR 187.5 million from the EU's Connecting Europe Facility for this project with Estonia, and this financial instrument specifically wants to open up the energy market, and this significant support from that EU fund is, in a way, conditional that it is now up to us to do so. If we do not act in this time and now, there is a risk that we will lose its investment aid as a whole and also lose its opportunity. For example, there is a large LNG gas station in Klaipeda on the Latvian side, which is able to act as such a buffer warehouse and ensure our gas supply in the event of disturbances in the world. It is true that this gas market is still very early on for us when the gas has come from one source, but that does not mean that we cannot develop the market in the direction of an open market and possibly create more users. Of course, we can hope that this additional use will come from biogas — the same way that biogas runs in the pipeline as this natural gas, the pipeline does not recognize which gas it is. Mr President! Finally, perhaps the best thing about this is that when the natural gas network is being built and developed, then the condition is being created that natural gas sales are differentiated from that network. So the network is one of its own areas of activity, and the sale of natural gas is another. Just as it is on the electricity grid, when we get the electricity bill, there is this transfer charge on the bill of its own group, and then the other group is the energy or electricity. The same procedure comes on the natural gas side, which is also good in itself, because by this means all future suppliers will now be able to enter the market with the new natural gas network. It is likely to lower the price and hopefully also bring new suppliers, which is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u293	Mr President! The main objective of the proposal is indeed to open up the wholesale and retail markets to competition, and at the same time the derogations from the isolated markets of the Gas Markets Directive will end. This will also reduce regulatory burden, with the aim of making procurement more diverse and improving security of supply and increasing competition. In this regard, I particularly welcome the fact that this proposal will improve market access for biogas and will generally enable these markets, where more sellers will also be in the biogas sector. This law is in line with the energy and climate strategy. We really need to move strongly from fossil to renewable, and biogas is an important part of it. This also marginalises the use of coal for energy purposes, replaces natural gas, and at the same time helps to control the electrical system, which, on the other hand, helps us to deal with renewable energy. So the wind and the sun require adjustment, and this will improve our chances. Of course, this is the background to the completion of the Finnish-Baltic pipeline, and then Finland and the Baltics will become regional gas markets. In this respect, the grounds for opening up competition are legal and economic. Indeed, natural gas trade is now making progress, and the aim is that, in the long term, end-user prices will also fall.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u294	Mr President! Indeed, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we discussed this government proposal in depth, and here there are, as it were, two parts: this particular liberalisation of the natural gas market and then these changes to the electricity market law. I am focusing here mainly on those changes to the Electricity Market Act. This is something that I am sure many of us in this House have received a great deal of feedback on this. Indeed, this limits the increase in both transmission and distribution charges to 15 % over the period considered, and then over the four-year period, the Energy Agency will assess, for example, these increases and how reasonable those increases have been. After all, this dates back to 2013 and to the obligations that were imposed at the time on the supply and security of electricity networks. Well, of course, hindsight is always sweet wisdom, and I am not going to go to it, but it is certainly good that this law is now laid down and, as it were, consumer rights are now being taken into account in this way. Nevertheless, it is important that this work should continue and that this security of electricity supply should continue to be taken care of, because these long blackouts can cause very serious damage to private households as well as to companies operating in those sparsely populated areas and still rely largely on air lines in the transmission network. But overall, good government proposal and good measures. Surely the results of this will soon be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u295	Mr President! This is an important subject which has been talking for a long time in that field, so to speak, because this rise in electricity transmission prices, particularly in this case of Caruna, was of course something that raised the problems we have had for a long time in the sparsely populated areas. It is very good that this law is starting to address this issue of electricity transmission pricing and the dramatic increase in these regional disparities, which has already begun before this regime. The most important thing is that these increases now become this ceiling and that, above all, these electricity transmission companies, which are often sparsely populated, can apply for this extension of investment periods, which has not been practically possible in the past. It has been, as it were, dead in the letter of the law, which means that this extension of investment periods could formally have been applied for, but these criteria have been so strict that it has not been practically possible to apply for it. These investments have had to be made at a rapid pace, because Parliament made provision for security of electricity supply, and the companies interpreted that this means, above all, strong land-based cabling, which is the most expensive investment of all. And these have then passed on to electricity transmission prices, and ordinary people have had to pay for them, especially in rural areas. This has been seen especially in Kainuu, where these electricity transmission prices have been highest. Our region is one of the snowiest and most forested in Finland, and once there has been power outages, they will of course have to be repaired quickly, because of course we have to supply electricity to people. But in addition to this, these areas have been subject to more severe sanctions due to the blackouts caused by the snow, which is quite unequal in terms of the treatment of these electricity transmission companies. These costs, sanctions, compensation payments, which will then have to be paid to millions each year, and the various hourly definitions of how quickly these compensations will have to be paid will then also go to these electricity transmission prices. This has then sparked a debate on how Parliament intends to intervene in this monopoly. This is a tax-like payment for people. This electricity transmission must already be paid in the form of a basic charge, even if a person does not use electricity at all, for example, in his own cottage or in his own home, i.e. the right to use electricity and this readiness to receive electricity is above all the same, this payment will have to be paid. It is therefore wrong that electricity transmission companies are transferring this share of the basic levy in their own electricity transmission prices. This is growing all the time, there is no ceiling defined for this. Even the Energy Agency can't deal with this. This has been a well-known message in the sector that these electricity transmission companies are trying to shift the weighting of this electricity transmission price to this basic charge, which is virtually beyond the control of the ordinary citizen and the electricity user. Nor does this encourage the reduction of electricity use. In my opinion, the Agency should then be given control of how much this basic charge can be in the electricity transmission price. This would be one solution. One solution has specifically been to extend investment periods and then to define the maintenance obligation instead of land cabling. It is a great thing that this has now come up to the bill. These first two solutions, as I said here, are, for example, part of an initiative for action, which was signed by Mr Salmon and then by Mr Leppä from the Centre Group, offering solutions, which should start to be promoted as regards the fact that these regional differences in electricity transmission prices do not continue to increase. Well, what it would also be possible to introduce and clarify in Finland is, for example, a regional electricity tax, which is used in Sweden. However, the Commission has pointed out Sweden precisely because this directive does not at present — precisely because it does not allow — allow such regional electricity taxation and compensation, and it has been pointed out that this should be done away with. Well, it is not yet known when Sweden is going to give up this and whether it is going to replace it, how these regional cost differences can be offset, but it would be useful to find out and, for example, to cooperate in this EU country that it would be possible to do so in Finland. There are also experts in electricity transmission companies who have brought this up. This would be the easiest and, in fact, the most equitable way of doing so if Finland could regionally offset these costs through a regional electricity tax. Well, it has also been pointed out that electricity transmission companies should calculate the rate of return on actual investment rather than on imputed costs. It has been noted that there may be a certain kind of computational guidance in these prices, because this rate of return is actually calculated on the basis of the calculated cost of investments and is of course always more profitable, the more you can make it seem that they have been made a lot — and of course they have also been done a lot, but also that it seems that they have been done a lot — so then it is taken as a share of that percentage of return, and it is then in proportion to the big one. We also need to consider and explain why, in international terms, Finland has this rate of return for such a monopoly company. I believe that this too should be clarified. Then experts have also said that it would be quite possible to find out, and for users, citizens, for customers, it would be good to find out about this kind of electricity transmission price replacement cascade model. In other words, if the customer himself agreed that he would not need this compensation if the electricity supply were interrupted, he would voluntarily waive the compensation and on that condition he could pay a lower electricity transmission price. This is one that has been seen as a possible option, because it is also the case that people, especially in sparsely populated areas, have no opportunity to leave themselves entirely to the electricity supply of the electricity transmission company, but have been self-sufficient in electricity generation, for example because of their company's need for continuous electricity production, and this compensation in itself does not matter in that sense. This would be one of the options to be resolved. In addition, one proposal from electricity transmission companies themselves has become that, as almost the only country in Finland, the electricity tax is also collected through electricity transmission companies, and if the collection of electricity tax were passed on to electricity distribution companies, this would also reduce bureaucracy and certain administrative costs. With regard to these standard allowances, I have already mentioned that there are currently differences as to whether the power outage is, for example, caused by nature or whether it is caused by a technical defect, a fault in the job or a break in the road. At present, there are unfair, unequal standard compensation criteria in rural network companies and in urban network companies, and these should also be corrected. These changes can be made once a study of the smart grid model has been carried out and, in the autumn, it will also be possible to make progress in terms of people's ability to influence this pricing more with their own consumption. This is a very small opportunity at the moment. I hope that these legislative changes will then be able to be made in this context, and these proposals for our initiative for measures will be taken forward, in order to make pricing more reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u296	Mr. Speaker! Let's try it for two minutes. — First of all, I thought that, according to my memory, there has been a ceiling restriction on electricity transmission charges at the moment, which is probably wrong to hear that this is the first time that it has come. But when it says in that title that this is a law on the natural gas market and particularly related to this building of the Balticconnector, a few words, because natural gas is very important for both households and industry at the moment, and when I live in an area where that pipeline comes very close, we have it based directly on industry, among other things. It has already been possible for both small producers and biogas to be involved in producing it in the same network, i.e. it is not new, there will be changes, but I am still repeating: even now biogas has been mixed in the same way as petrol or diesel, i.e. from 0 to 100 % in that network, and in the same way small producers, such as small producers in electricity production, have also been able to produce it on the gas side. So at the moment we have this one gas pipeline coming from Russia, and in addition to that, we already have a few LNG terminals, which means that Finland is already on market. That is why my view is that, in Finland, market economy could be opened up without simply resorting to that Baltic gas, because it may seem funny to talk about Baltic gas and its market opening, because there is no gas in the Baltic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u297	Mr President! I am the chairman of the board of one of the electricity companies and I very much agree with what Mr Jarva has said. I also agree with Mr Paatero in that there is a certain pipe in the transfer price where everyone must stay: it has an outer and inner edge, and within it we will abstain. Of course, the costs across the country are very different. But I thought I would concentrate mainly on these gas issues, and I agree very much with Mr Paatero's views. We in the city centre, Mr Paatero, have no market price to buy gas from the Baltics. It's misunderstood. We have a great urge to produce gas in this country itself. Most of the time, like Mr Hoskonen, I was thinking about what gas is already being used for. After all, we have it very quickly spread to many cities: urban buses work on gas. As a result of the rapid spread of this gas network across the country, I also believe that the car fleet will increase at a considerable rate. In the past, the problem has been that it has come at only one pressure and that the car driver, who would have to pump gas for an hour, does not bother to do so. Now that there is pressurized gas and unpressurized gas, it is easy to keep such public transport buses overnight in that place of longer charging, and normal refueling, such as gasoline and naphta, comes to these places of distribution of pressurized fuel. Locally, in Satakunta, it is very interesting to see this LNG plant in Tahkoluoto reflected in ideas in the province. Among other things, the transfer of Pori- Kankanpää-Haapamäki line to gas has been highlighted. Its electrification is quite impossible, as it has limited potential compared to massive electricity use, but it is very important to think about the metal industry system in Satakunta, Outokumpu and other enrichment plants that process metal, for example. It would be impossible to bring it to Pori through Haapamäki and to use the ports of both Pori and Rauma. Calculations have been made to turn it into gas, and these calculations are very cheap. The League of Satakunta and representatives of the Parliament of Satakunta have been actively involved in this. Other opportunities will certainly be found very quickly after the increase in gas availability. I met a gas consultant and he has been driving a gas van for three years and said that only when he was in Troms, Norway, he had to use petrol — they have a gasoline engine of about 30 litres — and that he can get 700 kilometers [700 km] of gas. An impossible distance, of course, depending on the size of the tank that has arranged for it in its car. We are already used to electricity and, of course, moaning about the cost of electricity, but this creates a great opportunity for us to have different views. We have, among other things, an establishment in Honkajoki — we only have a few of these — for slaughter animals, dead animals. It's our plant that produces pressurized steam from bio- and other waste, even from the very near future, in the decomposition plant. Its gas runs a gas turbine engine that produces electricity and then steam, which is needed for high pressure impossible quantities when these animals are processed. It's nothing but savings. We get into Finnish production and it lowers the cost of the final work.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u298	Mr President! It would have been a beautiful hymn if I had received a reply earlier. I just wanted to bring a different view that this gas project will certainly not be able to help with the power outages in the Savo region. The construction of a gas pipeline there rather than an electric line seems to be a time for a utopian option, and, as Mr Juhantalo said at the end of Paatero's speech, we have already defined where the transfer prices should remain in the pipeline. But Mr Juhani raised a very important issue, that we have great potential for LNG, and it is in Satakunta that we now have the Tahkoluoto terminal. In both Pori and Harjavalta, industry is moving in small steps and with regard to decisions that have already been taken to use LNG, and this setting of our climate targets in the metallurgical industry is taking quite a leap in relation to what it is currently with heavy fuel oil. I strongly support Mr Juhantalo's view that we must be able to reflect nationally on the Pori-Haapamäki track — we call it the Green Railway project in Satakunta — which would enable us to exploit our deep port and our province, which is important for the export industry, to develop further transport connections, and the opening of this east-west corridor would significantly liberalise the main line.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u299	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u300	Mr President! There have been long and in-depth discussions on a number of political issues this evening. I promise the President that I will not say a word about the basic income, but that I am talking about the law on debt arrangements and the basic security of entrepreneurs and individuals. I, the undersigned, first signed, have submitted a bill amending the private person’s law on the arrangement of debts. The initiative has been signed by 26 MPs and representatives from all parliamentary groups, including all government parties. This initiative proposes that Parliament amends the Law on Debt Arrangements in such a way that the tax debt resulting from the liquidation of the assets to be realised in the context of the debt arrangement would be included in the liabilities of the debt arrangement, whether the liquidation took place before or after the start of the debt arrangement. Mr President! The current interpretation of the law may result in the debtor not surviving his tax debt and the debt arrangement failing. Why? Because when the assets of a private trader are realised in the context of a debt arrangement, the sale of immovable property and the sale of movable property generate a profit. As a result, the sale also incurs a tax liability. However, the tax liability thus incurred is not, in principle, considered to be a liability within the scope of the debt arrangement. The current legal interpretation is that the law in force should not be interpreted as constituting a liability under a debt arrangement to be regarded as a tax on the proceeds of the transfer, the basis of which arose only after the commencement of the debt arrangement. The fact that the tax has been imposed on the basis of the implementation of the provision of the established payment programme has not altered this assessment. The current interpretation may result in the debtor not surviving his tax debt and the debt arrangement failing. Mr President! I believe that the current situation in which the tax debt resulting from the provision of the payment programme established in the debt arrangement jeopardises the implementation of the payment programme is a poor support for the objectives of the Debt Arrangements Act. I myself was informed of this gap in the current legislation from a person who has been helping over-indebtedness entrepreneurs for many ten years. With the change proposed in this initiative, it would be possible to act as follows: First, a debt facility payment programme will be drawn up to define the debtor's payment margin for ordinary debts and collateral liabilities. Secondly, as soon as the payment programme has been established, collateral debts will start to be paid in normal order. Thirdly, an escrow account will be opened for the debtor in the bank, which will be directed towards the payment of ordinary debts and the proceeds from the sale of unbanked assets. Fourthly, the pledgeed assets not covered by basic security will be sold and the proceeds of the sale will be accounted for to the pledge holders. Fifthly, when all the liquidations of assets have been made and the tax liabilities arising from the realisations have been settled, an amendment to the payment programme will be sought to determine how the accumulated payment margin and the accumulated assets will be distributed to creditors and tax authorities of ordinary, unsecured debts. Mr President! In view of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: "As regards the amendment In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, the Act on a Private Debt Scheme (57/1993) is amended. For the purposes of this Act, the following definitions shall apply: (3) the debt covered by the debt arrangement shall bear all the debtor’s debts incurred prior to the start of the debt arrangement, including the underlying liabilities and liabilities, the amount or amount of which is contingent or controversial or for any other reason unclear, as well as the interest accrued between the start of the debt arrangement and the establishment of the payment programme and the costs of recovery and enforcement of such liabilities imposed on the debtor and the tax liability accrued from the taxation of the realisation of the assets covered by the debt arrangement.”
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u301	Madam President! When the stock market collapse began in 87 and three to four years, when companies struggling with high interest rates and currency debts really got into a downward spiral of liquidation between 91 and 92, the idea emerged that the consequences of the harsh laws that we had had were so serious that in some way legislation should be taken into account. That was the first time this debt arrangement law was born, which was very much opposed to the fact that, according to the Lutheran system, Finland has to bear its debts and nothing is forgiven, but it was then achieved, which was a great reform and made life easier for many. I believe that at the time it was not possible to think so far that this fundamental and serious flaw remained. I fully agree with what we have just heard and agree that this should be corrected. After all, we had a law of enforcement, a code of enforcement. We constantly relaxed the line in relation to bankruptcy law and our bankruptcy legislation is still so inadequate that it still needs to be softened. It must be remembered, however, that there is always a conflict of interest between creditors and debtors so that one side would never forgive and the other side would forgive everything, and it must be acted upon and settled, but I do not believe that we are going to go into American bankruptcy law, which is quite different. Its ultimate purpose is not to abandon a person and put him in debt imprisonment, but to release him if he is an enterprising fellow, through a quick procedure to start all over again. I've always used Henry Ford as an example, who, according to my information, went bankrupt six times before the company could stand, and it's a hell of a company. It is right that there was no Finnish bankruptcy law where a man would have been destroyed for the rest of his life and could not be credited. But this whole thing is important. This is where relief must go, and this is done by consensus between the legislators and so that society as a whole understands this goodness, that this purpose is to do good and not just to free someone from it. I support this Östman bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u302	Madam President! I hope that no one will ask me what all the arguments and changes to the articles have been made in detail by Mr Östman, for I am not so well informed, but when this debate took place when names were collected for the bill, it was quite clear that this is not in itself a question of the issue of forgiveness raised by Mr Juhani, but of fairness — how to deal with the debtor who is being charged with it, and what is being included in it — and I believe that Mr Östman's bill is precisely this correction: it is an attempt to make it reasonable and fair. It is precisely here on the enforcement side that we have, could we say unkindly, certain people who, perhaps even because of their own earnings, want to maintain a form of debt indemnification, so that if the property is sold, it will only reduce recovery costs but not the debt itself, so that we still have the capital that is there, increases interest and people will not get rid of that debt. That is why this is the right step, and, as was heard from representative Juhantalo, this government has taken the right steps in its government programme, that entrepreneurship should not be curbed if a person has gone bankrupt. There's got to be a chance to start over. It does not mean that the table is immediately wiped clean, but the person must be given the opportunity to go back to action and to try and produce, perhaps that debt back.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u303	Mr President! Representative Östman and his law-initiative partners have been inspired by this bill on the ruling of the Supreme Court No. 79 for the year 2000. In that case, the Supreme Court held that the private creditor’s law on the arrangement of debts could not be interpreted as constituting a debt covered by the arrangement by a tax on the proceeds of the transfer that arose only after the commencement of the arrangement. The Supreme Court considered that the mere fact that the tax has been imposed on the basis of the implementation of the provision of the established payment programme does not alter this assessment. The representative, Mr Östman, has developed a very clever legislative amendment to remedy this problem, which he has just presented. It states that a debt covered by a debt arrangement would also refer to a tax liability arising from the taxation of the assets and realisations covered by a debt arrangement — in other words, always in this way. I support this bill by Mr Östman and his partners and I hope that this bill will be properly dealt with in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-06-21-ps-74.u304	Madam President! I really did not mean forgiveness in this matter, but I well remember the atmosphere when 92 laws were passed. That was the first opening, and then there was a great deal of forgiveness and debt cancellation. These words were used because this was a new way of thinking, which was then brought up. If we now think of the whole from a legal point of view, that is exactly the case, we have followed the line of the Supreme Court that was raised here. An attempt has been made to soften it with legal literature, but the power and power of legal literature cannot be passed by the Supreme Court. Then, in the explanatory memorandum to this initiative, this decision of the Rovaniemi Court of Appeal, which, contrary to this later position of the Supreme Court, has been attempted to raise the point that this arrangement of debt would mean that all the debts of a person are involved in that arrangement. But the wording of the law is so strict that it was necessary to follow this line of law. Well, the Bar and elsewhere, of course, were wondering how to avoid such situations, and that's why this advice came that you move, move the debt arrangement so that you can get everything in proper order so that you can get them on the right side of the border, and then you'll come in with the whole pot. But this is often theoretical. The situation of the debtor becomes so tight and can quickly become beyond his ability, he cannot move, he cannot organize his property and is forced, necessarily, then into a situation where the arrangement of the debt is not possible and is threatened with bankruptcy, in which case the situation is, of course, subject to mandatory legislation and the customer is subject to much stronger measures. I am, of course, in favour of this proposal by Mr Östman. I don't know how closely you've studied this policy with lawyers, but this feels very handy. It may be that there are obstacles and obstacles in committee — 'this is wrong and that is wrong' — but I wish you every success.
