ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to ask questions to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u2	Congressman Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u3	Mr President! July 2013 was full of hope. The Demars were then in the government and a long-awaited old-age service law was finally received in Finland. In Finland, the elderly were granted legal protection to require adequate old-age services from the municipalities. During the last term of government, all the parties were behind this historic law, as I recall, but is it any longer? The government has reported that it will cut as much as EUR 70 million from the elderly. Already during this term of government, the government has intimidated the elderly and their families by undermining the human resources. In home care, elderly people who are in an increasingly vulnerable condition are being held by nurses who have only time to visit them. There are not enough facilities in the institutions, even for elderly people who are largely memory-impaired. According to my information from the Finnish Association of Local and Basic Nurses, "home care is in chaos and the amount of work in the service houses is unbearable". So I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister: Will you maintain the 70 million dollars agreed at the beginning of the reign of the three parties, i.e. the Finns Party, the National Coalition Party and the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u4	Madam President! The preparation of the current level of EUR 70 million of state money has contributed to the change in the Act on Elderly Services that was before Christmas in Parliament and to the recommendation of the Ministry for Elderly Services on the matters to be taken care of in the service houses and in the care at home, as recommended by the Ministry. These are the instruments on which we will then look for the concrete means to deal with that sum of EUR 70 million. On the other hand, on the other hand, let's talk about municipal services. Local government contributions have not been tampered with.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u6	Mr President! Yesterday, at the Big Apple shopping center, I met Mrs Laila, who told me that after the government's medical surgery, she was constantly wondering if there was enough money for food and medicine. Unfortunately, this is the fault of government policy. You're going to replace trained professionals in care for the elderly with less trained staff. You didn't just say that out loud. This reflects the government’s appreciation for the elderly and properly trained nursing staff. Tehy magazine — you must have read last week — told what was at the end of this government road: According to Tehy’s news, Attendo wants to lower the salaries of nurses. Minister Ruhula: Last autumn, the government made a promise that the number of nurses would not be reduced. It has now become clear that you are not sticking to this, but you are actually reducing trained nurses with this dimensional brawl, and there will be trainees. Minister Rehula, is this in line with your idea of attractive nursing and valuable care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u7	Madam President! The dimension of the quality recommendation shall not be changed. Your argument about it is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u10	Now the Minister is talking all over his head. I didn't say the government would lower the nurse's standards. I said that you cancelled the nurseship, and you withdrew it because the opposition and the Finnish people insisted so. And you have indicated in the supplementary draft budget last autumn how you will make this EUR 70 million savings. The criteria for the dimensioning of nursing workers will be revised so that the budgetary consolidation effect of the changes will be EUR 70 million in 2019. This means that the separate dimensioning requirement for support service personnel will be removed. The personnel involved in the management, such as those maintaining recreational activities and social capacity, will be included in the personnel allocation. It's like a bus driver being replaced by a ticket inspector.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u11	I would remind the representatives that there is reason to talk to others politely and honestly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u12	Madam President! Let everyone make their own interpretation, who here speaks what and in what way, but when the basic arguments in your first question were not correct, it is also a little difficult to answer. This government ensures in different ways that people receive individual services under the Act on Elderly Services in connection with home services. A service plan in accordance with the Old Age Services Act must be made for a person who is subject to the Old Age Services Act. Secondly, that care and care and the number of professionals at different levels of elderly services in different situations, whether they are round-the-clock, supported housing units or others: we want to ensure that there is a sufficient number of professionals at all times in relation to care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u13	Madam President! If there are no changes to these carers' measurements, then my simple question is: However, when it is going to be EUR 70 million, almost EUR 100 million, now will you cut off services for the elderly, whether from home services or institutional care, could you tell us how these criteria will be changed so that this goal can be achieved? Is it going to be done to cut workers from cleaners or food services, so that nurses start cleaning and doing food service work? Their professional skills would be needed for more than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u14	Madam President! The janitor, the cleaner and the cook are valuable professions, but these people who are in the support services will not continue to count on the nurse’s qualification of social and health care professionals. Secondly, the aim is to save EUR 70 million, in which one part, a concrete part, will be to find many millions of euros of savings in the red tape of the administration of the units of the ageing population, while importing and making ways to ensure that private and public operators are on the same track.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u15	Mr President! The measure of our civilisation is how we treat the citizens who have built this country for us. That is why all parties together supported the adoption of the old-age service law, which was enacted during the time of the then Minister Guzenina. Now, if I'm going to make it concrete, what does this mean? You gave up the opposition's pressure on this cut in the carer's size, but you left it to save money, and now you say that it will be saved in such a way as to include, for example, students or apprentices. What does that mean? This means that when there is, for example, a housing unit with 14 elderly people, the second nurse on the evening or morning shift can be replaced by an intern or student. And when the separate dimensioning of support staff, namely cleaners and catering, can be reduced, it means that in the worst case scenario, nurses are forced to do cleaning or catering work. Minister Ruhula, do you think that care for the elderly in Finland is so good that:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u16	Madam President! In our care of the elderly, professionals 7/24 work their own shifts with people who are no longer able to take care of themselves, that is, when the need for care is equal to the need for 24-hour good care. It will continue to be so. It is a little difficult to have this debate when you are making your own interpretations of something that we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u17	Mr President! Now, apparently, the fact that everyone in the government has recognised is that the government is applying for these savings of EUR 100 million for care for the elderly. It would be very reasonable if the government were to tell us how you intend to make these savings. And that would be reasonable, precisely because the medical staff are already very exhausted in their work and are concerned about whether the safety and quality of care for the elderly can be met. I recall that last autumn, when the Committee on Social Affairs and Health dealt with the government's budget, we were informed from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that the government intended to relax in some way the quality or criteria required by the municipalities. Would you be kind enough to answer this question and worry?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u18	Madam Speaker! Social welfare and health care professionals will continue to be included in the nursing qualification. Secondly, where will the savings of EUR 70 million come from? In part, for example, the harmonisation of the dimensions of a private and public service provider — for example, the harmonisation of the dimensioning. And thirdly: when you intervene and talk about it — and it is understandable that you ask — how EUR 70 million is being managed, the other half is that the government has not intervened in the state contributions of the municipalities, which will allow the need for care that people in each unit have, with certainty, to be able to ensure that there are professionals, sufficient professionals, the amount required for day-to-day care in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u19	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Now that the elderly services are to be transferred to the provinces, I have an example of my municipality of residence, where there is concern about the elderly in the city. There is a long-awaited enhanced service housing unit under construction, where the elderly of our city were to be able to move. Now activities and houses are apparently being transferred to the province. Elderly services are the most important local service and must be designed and implemented together with older people and their families. Residents in cities and municipalities fear that in the future older people will no longer be allowed to spend their old age in their own municipality close to their loved ones, but will be offered a place to serve from the other side of the province. The Sote reform moves the elderly service away from the residents. I would like to ask the government: if the social welfare reform goes through, how much does the opinion of an individual citizen still weigh at that point? Is there any hope for a municipaler to find a place to live when he is old in his own municipality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u20	Madam President! It is at this very moment that getting an answer to your question and ensuring it is very much dependent on the way in which regional preparation is proceeding, the way in which rural service networks are being built also in terms of housing services for the ageing population in a situation where there is a major change: the responsibility for organising is being transferred from municipalities to regions from the beginning of 2019, this is a priority. Secondly, for example, the locations of subsidised housing units: even today, they have not been built in vain in the places where they exist — the need exists, and vice versa, according to the feedback that comes to me, the need is still growing. This enables and ensures that a person can live in his/her own region for as long as possible. What happens in situations where, for example, there is a ward such as the current health centre, in practice in hospital conditions,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u21	Madam President! When a person retires, he has decades of well-being, a healthy life, a good third age at his best, and it is a great thing that this government invests in different ways in doing well at home: investing in home care, family care and family care. But at the moment we have the practice that a person’s first health check is only done at the age of 75 — far too late, because for many people it is really important, and when it is left out, there will be a big vacuum. A person’s welfare check should be carried out when he retires so that he can get a good pension. Prime Minister, you raised this welfare check a week ago in party day television. How can you see that when we intervene in time, then there will be no need to correct these matters later? One-year transition from 5000 people to long-term care
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u22	Mr President! This 75-year check-up is actually rather late. Much earlier could be addressed if this were to happen, for example, in the case of retirement. In addition to the health check, it would also be possible to review the situation in life as a whole, to see what networks are involved, and to address, for example, the problem of loneliness, lifestyles and so on. I believe that this welfare check should be carried out in the event of retirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u23	Mr President! I'm a little surprised. I'm wondering a lot now, Prime Minister. The question is seriously asked whether we can allow it and whether it is right that the elderly who are being treated should not receive good care, and you, Prime Minister, have now raised a new issue — a very fine and well-supported one. But here we are concerned about whether you are still going to cut off care for the elderly, where the most important thing is that people have enough help available. It is a strange thing now that there is such a simple question. However, despite the fact that you were convinced by the Finnish people and the opposition that this dimension was not being compromised, 70 million remained in the savings targets. Now the savings target remained, but luckily this task which you had was cancelled. Now the question is quite simple: will this 70 million be carried out as you have now said, at least as we have read? And SuPerit and other major social influences think,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u24	Madam President! One thing that is certain to unite the government and the opposition is that we have concerns about how our ageing people will cope in a situation where they will no longer be able to live in their own homes, for example. We have concerns about how to live at home for as long as possible. For the job I started 22 months ago, I received a dowry lunch on the way in which we should be able to live even longer in our home. This is a concern that we have in common. Then, Mr Kiuru, we are committed to this role as part of the government as part of the transformation that is taking place in society, including the possibility of developing the content of elderly services. It is being done, and, for example, this support work for living at home is going around Finland at the best time by many dozens of social welfare and health care professionals. That is one answer to the question whether we are going to operate. The answer is that the budget must be kept but, on the other hand, we must look for ways of trying to survive in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u25	Next question: Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u26	Mr President! People with disabilities have been exposed to competitive tendering. People with disabilities and their loved ones are sending out an emergency message that everything is being spared. The staff of the nursing home may change from time to time. Food is rationed and restricted. Mentally disabled persons and their families will not be able to participate themselves in the provision of their services in the way they would like. The measure of the State of Education is how it takes care of its weakest, but now people with disabilities feel that they are the target of an auction. The vital services of people with disabilities are people's services to people. They are important for continuity, good everyday life and happiness. My question is: what is the government doing to improve the situation of people with disabilities and to improve the poor situation in services? How do you reduce the disadvantages of continuing to compete?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u27	Mr President! One part of the freedom of choice legislation, which has received a lot of feedback and criticism, has been commended — a part specifically targeted at people with severe disabilities, people with disabilities and, in the future, more and more ageing people, and is a so-called personal budget. This is what disabled organisations wanted, demanded, expected. Now we're putting it to work. In this respect, a major change is taking place, and at least if there is confidence in the interests of the industry, that change is in a positive direction. Secondly, this is your listing of these problems. Is it a lack of law, a lack of articles, or rather something that has gone seriously wrong with the implementation of these articles? We have the articles in order, but what has happened on a practical level — for example, through the news coverage of recent weeks — is that there have been mistakes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u28	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u29	Mr President! Personal budgeting is, of course, important, but the situation is now that people with disabilities need to be addressed now and the disadvantages of these competitions need to be reduced. My question is: what is the government doing now to improve the services of disabled people in distress? The aim of the public sector is not to maximise profits, but to achieve a common good, as the Nobel Prize winner Bengt Holmström well reminded us. But I would also like to ask about the situation of families with children with disabilities: The government has increased the number of family carers' holidays, which in itself is a good thing, but many municipalities have at the same time tightened the criteria for informal care support, so that the support of family carers has fallen — the support of families with very little means, families who care for a close, disabled child at home and who would need all that support and assistance in their everyday lives. How do you, the government, intend to intervene in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u30	Madam President! On an annual basis, the Government has increased EUR 100 million to support informal care. EUR 100 million for informal care support. It is a benefit in which implementation is considered by the municipalities. The role of the Minister is the only way to push the string, to try to signal that equality in this country could be achieved through these articles of current legislation. Rarely do I want to point out anyone from above, but here I have to say that the changes and decisions relating to the level of payment for informal care support have been made at municipal level with the consideration that has been there in each municipality from which this criticism has come. On an annual basis, the Government has increased EUR 100 million to support informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u31	Mr President! Thousands of people with mental disabilities are capable of paid work, but it is not offered. According to the Mental Injury Association, Finland has a maximum of 500 people with mental disabilities in paid employment. It is only 2% of all people with disabilities of working age. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Employment, Mr Lindström: what is the government going to do for its part to remedy the climate of attitude that hinders the employment of people with disabilities, and does it intend to intervene in the exploitation of people with disabilities simply as unpaid work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u32	Madam President! It's just a matter of time. Preparations are being made for the mid-term session, and the government programme includes the entry "part-time people capable of working in the labour market". The government has already taken note of this in the negotiations with the government and, together with the STM, there is cooperation in this area, because we have recognised that people with disabilities have a lot of skills that must be taken into account in society, and certainly these issues will be discussed. Of course, these things should be carried much, much faster, but there is much more. But we certainly do not underestimate this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u33	Mr President! This initial question concerned the tendering of services for people with disabilities, and this new procurement law report was completed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which has then been added as a sentence that Parliament requires the humane production of housing services for people with disabilities and the elderly. As these services are now transferred to the provinces and come to this personal budgeting, I ask Minister Rehula: is the service voucher a good solution to the problems that have been encountered in this competition, a service voucher used by the disabled or the elderly themselves, and she decides for herself where to live, how long to live, and if it does not work, then she can move away.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u34	Madam President! If we lived in an ideal world, we would have a sufficient number of social welfare articles that would also guide tendering. The Procurement Act, as it is coming out of Parliament, makes it possible to make available the best form of living available in one's own life situation, for example. It's not the law that's standing in the way of it. The problems that exist and where the feedback comes from and where extreme examples end up in the news — something has gone wrong. Congressman Turunen asked about the service voucher. The service voucher is an excellent way of avoiding any shortcomings in the procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u35	Madam President! Perhaps it is worth mentioning here that the Finnish Procurement Act has introduced the most light procedural regulation for social services, which the directive allows, and for example no specific procedure is provided for. In practice, since the beginning of 2019, the role of procurement in social services will lose its meaning when the provision of services moves to this model of freedom of choice for customers and this personal budget mentioned here will be introduced in disability services. Thus, in the regional model, social services will no longer be competitive as procurements; disabled people will receive a more tailor-made service within their own budget and will be able to choose the service provider they want.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u36	Next question: Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u37	Mr President! As Minister Rehula has just said, this government-driven model of freedom of choice has received a great deal of criticism from various experts. This consultation on freedom of choice legislation ended on Tuesday and more than 600 opinions were submitted. Many experts, and also cities, are critical of the forced-on and outsourcing of services because it is seen that it will increase the costs of the system, increase inequalities between citizens, and it has also been estimated that there are constitutional problems with this proposal. You, Mr Sipilä, have said that criticism is taken into account, statements are carefully read and then the necessary changes are made to the law. However, the government's objective is to complete this legislative package by next week. Prime Minister, how is this even possible and whether this represents it carefully?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u38	Mr President! It is true that there has been a lot of feedback on this wide-ranging package of freedom of choice and extensive social security reform. 600 statements have been received and examined along the way. Of course, these opinions and statements have come along the way and they have been prepared for. That is where the main points have now been drawn up. One observation is that there is concern as to whether this can be implemented within the timetable. Then there are these constitutional remarks, and then there are the comments on what services it contains. In this context, we are now working on a long day and the working group of ministers for reform is working on a long day in such a way that we can make the necessary policies. Also, officials along the way have already trim into a new position. But the most important thing now would be that we get the guidelines that we need to draw up on the basis of that consultation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u39	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u40	Mr President! It does now seem that, for political reasons, the government wants to move forward with this freedom of choice legislation as quickly as possible, despite the fact that there has been a great deal of expert criticism. In particular, according to many experts, this timetable for the transition to the freedom of choice model is completely impossible. The most recent critics include the Ministry of Finance, the National Pensions Institute and Raimo Sailas, led by Petteri Orpo. It is also important for the public to take a time-out for this social reform. Today, the Left Alliance has opened up a "people's mid-term" issue for signature online, and we have received over 2,000 signatures for this petition in one day. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä, is the government really going to crush the freedom of choice model in the timetable decided by the government, despite the fact that everything
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u41	Mr President! This is a little confusing now because, on the other hand, there has become a strong demand that next week, when we are having a mid-term debate, we should have the guidelines prepared by the government before then. Now you are suggesting that these are not so busy and we have to work hard and we have a longer time available here. Could you decide now whether you want our policies now or after the election? We'll both do it. But we are now working hard to ensure that the citizens in municipal elections too know these open lines or what changes will be made in this draft proposal on the basis of this consultation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u42	Madam President! I hope it was Prime Minister Sipilä's humor to ask whether we want this biggest reform of the century to be carried out with care. Yes, we do, and that is exactly what Mr Andersson has just called for. Do with care, do not be hasty — it is a matter of human health, of human social services. But, Prime Minister, it is also a question of people's jobs, of hundreds of thousands of jobs in low-paid, female-dominated sectors. You've already cut 30 percent of the holiday allowance in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u45	Mr President! This reform has also been prepared by this government for two years. Yes, this work has been done for a long time and carefully. There has been a huge civil service machinery involved, and there have been many, many experts here, and we cannot talk of any haste here. It is now a question of this long-standing reform being in the consultation and, in the light of the feedback from the consultation, what will be changed in that government proposal? That is what this is all about, not a few days or weeks before something is moaned. I am sure the Prime Minister will answer this question on terms of employment, but I say in general that we health professionals should be concerned that there is still no work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u46	Mr President! I should like to add that here in Parliament we already have proposals relating to staff and their pension security, and as I am sure the representative knows, this organisation and responsibility will be transferred to the provinces on 1 January 2019, and those workers will be transferred by the principles of transfer of business as old workers and, in terms of incorporation, it will be two years. I myself have at least received the message that this is safely done when it is written in this way. These laws are already under discussion here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u47	Mr President! Freedom of choice, properly and carefully implemented, can in itself be a good thing. On the other hand, if health services are concentrated on large operators who are often still in foreign ownership, it is not necessarily a good development. The Christian Democrats consider it important and want to promote opportunities for small and medium-sized domestic companies and also for third sector operators to operate on the market. One of the ways we propose is to divide procurement into smaller parts. I ask Minister Ruhula: what is your assessment of whether Finnish service providers will be able to compete successfully on the market in this sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u48	Madam President! You asked if we were going to share the market. This is intended to create legislation that will provide the basis for companies as large as smaller companies to be involved in service production. These customer and payment vouchers, which will become available, and the personal budget, which was already discussed with the previous topic, are certain issues in which the SME sector is involved. In addition, we have written about freedom of choice legislation in the definition of the service provider that even a smaller company, even one entrepreneur, can be involved in the service production that will be included in the services that will be subject to freedom of choice. There has been talk of common concerns here, and if anyone shares the concern of the government as well as the Christian Democrats, it is the fact that the SME sector is involved. This is not a problem-free one, because there is a great deal of economies of scale and scale. But on the other hand, we have tried to write the articles in such a way that the SME sector is on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u49	Madam President! First, it is necessary to correct Mr Arhinmäki that the government did not decide on a reduction in the public sector holiday money, and the social partners decided to do so. The government had all the other components available for this competitiveness pact. But as far as timetables are concerned, it is so important that next week, when there is an interim debate here, the government will have the answers to the false claims that the opposition is constantly making and in which the citizens are being intimidated. For example, false claims have to do with this so-called cream peeling, with tax havens, with a reform in which the patient is either under-treated or over-treated. This is certainly not the way we do it, but we pay more to treat a sick person than to treat a healthy person, of course. But as far as this timetable is concerned, I will make sure that, if it is not possible to make all the decisions next week, such as the entry into force, which has received a lot of criticism, then this preparation
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u50	Madam President! The Government has announced a timetable for bringing the freedom of choice legislation to Parliament. From that day you can count back the time needed by the evaluation council, which needs a law review, which needs a translation into Swedish. In addition, we have enough work to do on the points, so that they are refined with certainty, both in terms of content and then in terms of making them easier to understand. We have work to do. The available timetable is tight, but it will be enough. With regard to the feedback: Work on the feedback has also started at the Ministry since the first opinion was received. There is a very good knowledge of what changes to the law are to be made on the basis of the feedback. Secondly, it has also been seen here that the opposition has, in these respects too, that what is desired is better information than that of a government which, however, tries to:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u51	Mr President! This round of opinions was quite confusing to read because the number of criticisms was so high, and the criticism came not from the opposition, whose opinion was not asked in this connection, but from the industry, experts and municipalities. I drew attention to the fact that even the city of Seinäjoki, which is centrally run, issued a very critical statement that this will work. The big concern is that the government is gathering a huge mammoth of these things, which is trying to bring them into force at the same time on 1 January 2019. And more and more people are saying that there is a risk that the whole structure will collapse and that our health care system can genuinely be in trouble if such a huge mammoth is made. Would it not be sensible to step up the process of regional reform first if it is the government's line and then gradually make these other solutions relating to health care and opening up the market to individuals and freedom of choice? Is the Prime Minister prepared for such a clear advance — the regional reform first, then this freedom of choice — to be done in time to make this visible from 2019 to 30?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u52	Madam President! We still have to check the information when Mr Heinäluoma said that the opposition was not asked. Yes, there is a place in my memory where the parties were asked. At least the party I represent has made an official statement. But as far as this process is concerned: from implementation and the timetable for implementation, the fact that the draft law has been in its statement for eight weeks and already has certain last days and certain first days, according to which the law is to be enforced. Secondly, the feedback and part of the timetable for implementing this entry into force is what we are currently dealing with within the government. Then the third thing is what needs to be done together or what needs to be done separately. It has been shown by experience that there is no point in this change that is being made that would not become widespread criticism and feedback. We have to make choices, and here we are trying to make the choice where Finnish social welfare and health care are taken to a model that is a European model: people can choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u53	Madam President! Yes, the government forced it into a situation where 30 percent of the holiday money was cut from low-paid employees in the public sector. An alternative was proposed, among other things, the cutting of Sunday labor supplements, and this still does not seem to have been forgotten, namely Jan Vapaavuori, Mayor of the Coalition Party, this week, proposed cutting off Sunday work allowances. Mr President! There will certainly be plenty of work in the social and health sector, no one doubts that, Prime Minister Sipilä. But instead, it is wondered if it will be paid properly. After all, Attendo already wants to cut these salaries that are paid in the social services sector. And I'm still asking: What, for example, is the situation of low-paid people working in the public sector who have an employment dwelling from the municipality with this social welfare reform? Will they be allowed to keep their employment homes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u54	Mr President! You have already asked this same question in that previous question, and I cannot answer it directly. These are precisely the questions that, when we deal here with this legislation, I think this will also come up in committee. But these will be resolved when the interim administration comes into force. After all, the interim administration in each province determines how these transfers take place. I am sure that this issue of employment housing will also be covered. If you ask me, my opinion is, of course, that we should be able to find solutions that enable a person to live in the apartment where he currently lives. I saw this in my own interpretation. When this legislation is finalised, the extremely important stage is that in every province, every municipality will also go through these aspects of employment relations and these staff transfers. That is where this will be resolved for every human being at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u55	Next question: Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u56	Värderade fru talman! På många håll i vårt land är man valdigt orolig just nu för hur det ska gå med kretssjukhusen. Vi har pratat mycket om vårdreformen men betydligt mindre om kretssjukhusens commande om. På många sjukhus gör man valdigt gott arbete: man har experts inom surgeon, inom physiatri, inom ätstörnningsvård och så vidare. Nu vill regeringen också gå åt kretssjukhusen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u57	Madam President! The first is one part of the whole need for change in social and health care: to ensure safe care and care for people, including surgery, in situations where care and care are needed. That is absolutely central. We have good examples of good models across Finland. But far too many of these models are based, for example, on the individual’s own life situation, the special care-level service provided by living in the locality. The big objective and the thing is that cooperation on the service level of these regional hospitals is the key word, the desire and the will to ensure that the forms of care and medical care that will continue to exist at each of these locations are certainly made by safe hands in a permanent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u58	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u59	Mr President! This did not really answer why the good that works should be broken. There are doctors there, there are medical staff there, there the municipalities have invested in operating rooms and so on. There the treatment lines are short and the patients are satisfied. Why — I still ask — should such action not continue? And now we know that behind the scenes there is still some blackmail for this on-call regulation. When will this be announced, and when will we find out what the future really is for our regional hospitals?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u60	Madam President! In my previous reply, I tried to answer your question as to why this change is being made. Secondly, as part of that previous response, I said that the future to which we are going cannot be just a service, for example, provided by the personal situation of the doctor, but that the service that will be provided in each hospital unit, the hospital, in these smaller hospitals — we will continue to have bigger and smaller hospitals — must certainly be done, it must be patient safety. Then you suggest "somewhere behind the scenes." Yes, it has been reported to the public that the preparation of a division of labour regulation between hospitals will be carried out during this spring, 2017. It is intended that in June this year the government will adopt a regulation implementing the division of labour between different hospitals. And thirdly, like normal preparation, that regulation will go to the opinion before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u61	Mr President! The hands of future provinces will be tied in many ways even before the provinces can start operating and take responsibility for social services. One way to bind these hands is to limit the activities of regional hospitals and the division of labour between hospitals. This can lead to congestion in central hospitals, the dismantling of regional hospitals' services and costly solutions for the dismantling of treatment queues. Mr President! Why does the government not want to give the provinces money and define quality standards for care and allow the provinces themselves to decide on the division of work between hospitals, which operates from the needs of the region and is truly cost-effective and serves the people of the region in the best possible way? Why does the government want to dictate and bind the hands of the provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u62	Madam Speaker! There are two types of feedback to your question: firstly, whether the government gives the region the power to decide and decide on the way in which the division of labour is carried out, and another Member of this Chamber may say in the following sentence: 'we cannot do the division of labour unless the ministry decides'. What has been tried to do here is the legislation adopted by Parliament last Christmas, which, for example, contains the message that, if the area is able to agree on a division of labour under the approved law, that is entirely possible. For example, as a minister, I have no need — and I know there is no need for any government minister — to interfere with the division of labour between the regions if this can be achieved in a way that considers the way of cooperation for the next decade and secondly is genuine. There are examples of this in which progress has been made. I haven't had to interfere in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u63	Next question: Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u64	Mr President! In Finland, affordable housing has become increasingly difficult. Affordable housing is a challenge across the country, but especially in growing cities where current power parties have failed to provide work-related, students and elderly people with reasonable housing solutions. Housing support is now increasingly being used by housing investors instead of providing opportunities to live with their families in an apartment the appropriate size. There are now quite a lot of new housing solutions on the move: housing cooperatives are coming to life, right-of-occupancy associations are being developed, and new types of solutions have become available for the housing of elderly people — even granny communes, where village schools and old detached houses are being renovated into community-based housing. I would like to ask the Minister for Housing: how the government views new housing solutions for families,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u65	Mr President! The Government is open to the fact that it is possible to offer more diverse opportunities for affordable housing to people in need of it, and in fact, in last autumn's budget solutions we increased all the supported housing patterns and numbers. We increased the budget, the granting powers for housing under both short-term interest subsidy, long-term interest subsidy housing and right-of-occupancy housing. We also increased investment grants for special groups, including new student housing projects. So all this supported housing is being promoted. I have also asked you to explore the possibilities of co-operative housing. For example, in senior housing, right-of-occupancy housing has often proved to be a very convenient tool so that people in the same life situation can live together in a community and in the same premises as them
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u66	Next question: Mr Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u67	Madam President! During our years of EU membership, it has become clear that EU regulation has increased across the board. This line has not brought added value to the agriculture of our country, but has even led to farm bottoms. Fortunately, with the current government, this regulation and the amount of bureaucracy will be taken into account. The Government Programme states: "In the implementation of EU rules, additional national regulation is withheld." This is an example of speeding up and reducing unnecessary checks on farms, thereby speeding up payments to farmers. That is why I ask Minister Tiilikainen: does the government also think that the focus of the EU's influence will be permanently transferred to the new era of the EU's common agricultural policy, to this lesser, better and lighter line of regulation?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u68	Mr President! As a representative Mr Kulmala has said that one of the principles of government during this parliamentary term has been to reduce regulation and cut unnecessary red tape — it has also been done in the agricultural and environmental fields. Firstly, the main aspect of this post-2020 agricultural reform is to ensure that agriculture in Europe can continue under all kinds of conditions, including in the most disadvantaged regions, such as Finland. It's important. Another important thing is that the principles of reform are implemented in such a way that it is possible for Finland to obtain a sufficient number of reimbursements in the form of various subsidies for our agricultural activities. The third point is that of cutting red tape, as the questioner has asked, and here we have worked well with our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Denmark and the Baltic countries, and together we have prepared a package of more than 60 proposals aimed at reducing the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u69	We have time to take one more question. Congressman Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u70	Madam President! Yesterday we heard an excellent speech in this Chamber: Nobelist Bengt Holmström spoke of his views in which he dealt with matters with a very political approach. It found arguments that were certainly listened to on both sides of the hall with a sensitive ear. We need different actors, we need a public sector that does valuable work, we need businesses. The Nobel Prize winner's message was that the option is the best right you can give a person. I ask Prime Minister Sipilä: when you also listened to this speech, were there or did you think of some points that the government could think about in particular in the forthcoming mid-term debate so that Holmström's ideas could be put into practice in some respects?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u71	Mr President! That speech was very good, and I'm sure everyone found something in it. I said that the speech by Mr Salolainen, which was very rustic, said that it was a moderate market economy speech, and Mr Niinistö said that it was a very green speech. Everyone found something in it, and it was very refreshing and thought - provoking in that way. I think it was a good reflection on the relationship between public finances and private finances and what kind of tasks can be brought into competition and what kinds of tasks cannot be brought into competition. For example, with regard to the war, he said that it would be possible to go through experiments — after all, we have tried the basic solution for a long time in South Karelia, North Karelia, Kainuu, and I have also discussed them with him. But I think that the best contribution to this was precisely this clarification of the division of labour between the public sector and the private sector — very good, refreshing ideas about this division of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u72	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Economic Committee and the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u73	Mr President! There is a proposal for a law on the distribution of alternative fuels used in transport. The proposed law will contribute to the implementation of the Directive on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. The Directive also required Member States to draw up a national distribution network plan to promote the use of the various modes of transport. The Finnish plan was approved at the Government meeting on 2 February 2017. The present proposal aims to promote the use of alternative fuels in transport in order to reduce transport dependence on oil as much as possible and to mitigate the harmful environmental impact of transport. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure common technical requirements for public charging and refuelling points for alternative fuels. In addition, it is intended to set criteria for information to be provided to users on the labelling and prices of alternative fuels and the geographical location of charging and refuelling points. In the draft law, alternative fuels refer to fuels or power sources that replace, at least partially, the use of fossil oil as an energy source for transport and which can improve the environmental performance of transport. Alternative fuels used in transport include electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, biogas, synthetic and paraffinic fuels, compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas and LPG. The law covers public refuelling and charging points. A public refuelling and charging point means a point to which any user has free access and which is offered to users for commercial purposes or in the context of a commercial activity. The refuelling and charging point is also public if the operator itself has defined it as public. The charging points offered in connection with public commercial activities include, for example, charging points offered in connection with parking of a parking service or a shopping centre. The draft law contains requirements for information to be provided to users. According to the draft law, vehicle users should have access to relevant, consistent and clear information on which alternative fuel may be used in vehicles. This information shall be provided in the motor vehicle manual, refuelling and charging points, motor vehicles and motor vehicle representative shops. The above information shall indicate how the fuel or, if an electric car is used, the method of charging meets the technical specifications set out in Annex II to the Distribution Infrastructure Directive. In addition, the criteria for comparing alternative fuel prices and for indicating the location of the refuelling and charging points are also introduced into the legislation. In accordance with Prime Minister Juha Sipilä’s Government Programme, the law would contribute to the implementation of the objectives of the Government Programme’s bioeconomy and clean solutions project by promoting the widespread use of renewable energy and clean technology in the transport sector. Mr President! I hope that the Government's proposal will receive a positive response here in Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u74	Mr President! The issue is important. In the fight against climate change, transport plays a crucial role. Since Finland's transport emissions account for 90% of road traffic and more than half of passenger cars, this has a great potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The electrification of passenger transport is an inevitable global trend and a great opportunity to reduce emissions. The internal combustion engine will be allowed to give way to electric cars over the next decades. This is done independently of Finland. The main issue now to be decided in Finland is how quickly we will join in and make the most of this change. The spread of electric cars is also a great opportunity for the whole energy system. Electric cars provide an opportunity to stabilise the efficiency balance of the entire Finnish electricity system. Finland is now investing heavily in biofuels and biofuels in transport in general. They are an important transition and a partial solution, but on a large scale passenger car traffic is likely to be electrified. It is shortsighted if Finland puts all the eggs in the same basket and neglects the development of electronic transport, i.e. if it only invests in biofuels when the global trend takes the other way. The electrification of traffic requires a functional and comprehensive charging network. The creation of a charging network is a big issue. This is a real egg-chicken problem. Why would a company build a charging point if there are no customers? On the other hand, why would the consumer buy an electric car if it cannot be charged? It is important to create a comprehensive charging network in the country. The Government assumes that alternative transport uses will be promoted on a market-based basis, i.e. without any further societal investment. The question is: will the initial generation of the charging network required by electric car traffic be entirely market-based, or is there a need for incentives? Do market players build charging points before there are electric cars? And on the other hand, do people purchase electric cars before there are full charging points? The EU Directive on Distribution Infrastructure does not take a position on what means Member States have in place to promote infrastructure. I believe that many national means are possible, such as financial aid, tax relief or the promotion of charging infrastructure through public procurement. From the point of view of climate change, the next few years will be crucial. Therefore, we cannot afford to wait for the market to resolve the problem of egg-chicken on its own, but the state must actively promote the construction of charging and refuelling points for electric and gas vehicles. Mr President! We therefore need a major change in our mobility behaviour and in our car fleet, and that is where the distribution of alternative fuels is key, as long as the construction of the distribution network is accelerated by the state if necessary. I would therefore like to ask, now that the Minister is here, whether this will be the case, and what the government could do to develop the charging infrastructure for electric cars in the early stages, in order to move on from this egg-chicken problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u75	Mr President! We are forced to save or reduce emissions from transport, and this is one way of reducing emissions in the transport sector by up to 50% by 2030. But emissions will not be reduced simply and only in the form of a proposal from this law. We need different measures to reduce emissions from transport. The obligation to mix fuel with bio-raw material is one that has already been presented and promoted. The renewal of the car fleet is also one part of the whole. First and foremost, the development of public transport services and the network of services is one thing and these travel chains, which combine passenger and freight transport. The importance of the charging and refuelling points is very important, and Mr Sarkkinen said above that this egg-chicken phenomenon will enable us to achieve this goal more quickly by promoting either: first developing the distribution infrastructure or more vehicles using alternative fuels. I'm sure we'll need both side by side. That is why I could actually ask Minister Berner when the ministry's working group submitted a proposal of some kind on how both the state and the state could, with public funds, support it in the creation of a distribution infrastructure, and also so that individuals are involved in it. But it is essential to include households and the development of distribution infrastructure there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u76	Mr President! Indeed, the Government's proposal pays particular attention to fuel distribution and the creation of a distribution network in Finland. Alternative fuels have now been well offered in Finland and some of them have been raised in this proposal. I myself would like to draw attention, as does the Sipilä Government, to increasing the availability of biofuels, because it would have a particularly good impact on domestic employment and would be very supportive of the government programme in many respects. Other options, already well-functioning, include natural gas, whose distribution network also needs to be developed in Finland. There is also a very new and very little available hydrogen option, and in this regard I would like the government to do even more about what is going to happen to hydrogen cars in the future. The most important part of the text is on page 4 of this government proposal, which states that the fastest way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is to replace existing fuels in transport with renewable or less-emission fuels or propulsion. I believe that this is one of the most important points of this government, and I would like to see particular attention paid to this when the matter comes up in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u77	Mr President! Indeed, almost 60% of transport emissions are generated by road transport, in other words by passenger cars. But indeed, on the truck and freight side, this change is more challenging. With a passenger car, it's faster. There it is possible when most of the emissions come from the other side — so this is easier. There must be realism here when we think about moving on to renewable fuels in lorries. We must remember Finland’s long distances and harsh winter conditions. They also pose a challenge for electronic transport and heavy traffic, but I believe that it will be easier for passenger cars. In Germany, Bundesrat has proposed that the production of petrol and diesel passenger cars should cease in 2030 — a world-wide move in this direction. In that sense, this distribution infrastructure is important that biofuels can indeed be obtained. Biofuels certainly also work in Finland, and of course there are these natural gas and liquefied petroleum gases and biogases, which may have been somewhat overshadowed in this debate. Of course, the State must also have an opportunity to do this. This may not go quite on market terms. I would draw attention to the fact that last season the Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Mr Pekkarinen, did a good job; there was a fairly high level of ambition in this area. This is a pretty technical bill, isn't it? But it is good in itself that progress should be made and, above all, that the Finnish fleet of cars would change. That is why I would also like to see car taxation now moving forward, even though it was not possible now for Live, and that we could make our car fleet actually use these alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u78	Mr President! This is indeed a reform that can revolutionise Finnish traffic and perhaps be a genuine pilot in a global perspective. As has been discussed with the Minister, certain major car manufacturers are looking for pilot countries around the world. In fact, there is my question: how does the Minister see when we talk about this distribution network, whether we can find a market-based solution to it, or whether there should be some kind of supporting element — as Mr Sarkkinen said — that there is little such an egg-chicken reaction that comes first? And then, if the solution is cars, electric cars, or renewables, clean cars, what means would there be on that side? One of the ideas of the debate is that even if the employment benefit were such that the cost of the employment benefit would be significantly lower or the share on top of the salary would be significantly lower when talking about electric cars. Or there is a prospect that genuine transport will be a service in the future, and that means that at least some people would not have conventional cars but could use it as an electric storage or other similar or new-style shared car. What kind of alternatives does the minister see?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u79	Mr President! Indeed, this is a very technical proposal which clarifies the definitions, usability, data reporting and the right of inspection of the distribution of fuels used in transport. I'm sure this will be necessary. We know the pressure to reduce emissions from transport and the need to move towards less environmentally friendly fuels. Finland is a country of long distances and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the distribution infrastructure for alternative fuels is in order that these cars can also be used in areas other than the Ring in 3 or larger cities. It is therefore important that legislation allows and promotes the availability of alternative fuels. Nor is this anything out of anyone, and I am sure that the proposal will, as the Minister wishes, receive an encouraging and broad enough reading in committee and here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u80	Mr President! Well, I guess it turns out the electric cars are starting to come fast now. It is not because of Finnish legislation or Finnish aspirations, but because of the great enthusiasm of car manufacturers. So I ask the minister: where are we now in the Nordic countries with regard to this charging network? How hard is the competition for charging sites? I know that Fortum has been very active and already has a lot of these charging points all over the Nordic countries. In what way — the question is the same as Mr Jaskar — this charging network is carried out on a market-based basis, and in what way is the State involved? What directives in the European Union have the effect that it is so comprehensive that an electric car can reasonably be bought in different regions of the country, because this charging infrastructure is a condition for people to be able to drive electric cars everywhere? And it is now certain that diesel car owners will not be paid back in the countryside, where there are so many of them now, and where do you drive so much?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u81	Mr President! Road transport is indeed a very important producer of greenhouse gases and small particulate emissions, since about 90% of domestic transport emissions are generated by road transport and, in order to reduce emissions, more efforts should be made in the future to increase the share of alternative propulsion forces alongside fossil fuel vehicles. The aim is that in 2025 50% of new passenger cars and vans could be driven by some alternative propulsion. As is well highlighted in the Government's proposal, the fastest way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is to replace existing transport fuels with renewable or less emission-intensive fuels or power. Quite a lot has recently been discussed specifically about electric cars and how many electric cars there will be in the future, and there has been a great deal of focus there, but I would like to put a great deal of emphasis on these alternative fuels myself. Mr President! As other representatives have already done, I would like to draw attention to this distribution network plan myself: What, then, will it become in Finland, how will the distribution network be built, and will it be constructed on market terms or in what ways? Is the government in any way involved? How will private and housing companies be building this distribution network in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u82	Congressman Pekkarinen, and then the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u83	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, I chaired the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which issued an opinion on the directive referred to here. Before that, for a decade or so, I was mainly in the ministry's duties, from various angles, dealing with the subject matter to which the government's proposal under discussion relates. That is why the President will allow me to say a few words. What do I mean when I say we got moving fast? When it comes to reducing emissions in transport, it is by far the fastest way to seize the opportunities that already exist. There is a fleet of cars and there is a distribution network. In such a situation, it was precisely these drop-in products, called drop-in products, that are called those blended products, that were introduced as quickly as possible, which Finland took first and more seriously than any other country in the European Union. We came up with the idea of setting a target of 20% of all fuel in Finland by 2020 and, in practice, what is already happening in Finland is that we go faster, we are well ahead of the timetable for which that law obliges us. So good was the decision that was made some years ago, then about ten years ago. What I am trying to say here, as Mrs Torniainen said quite well, is that the fastest way forward is precisely in drop-in products, because there is no need to develop new cars for them — modern cars are able to eat that particular biodiesel and bio-gas — and there is also a distribution network: neither chicken nor egg need either, both exist for Drop-in products. But these drop-in products are not enough for the entire transport fuel supply. We also urgently need other emission-free alternatives, and then electricity and biogas, or gas in general, will certainly become alternatives. And this government proposal in this respect, based on the relevant directive of the European Union, tells us how we can now move forward on this issue. This is a very technical proposal from the government. This does not say much about goals and does not draw the picture of what should be in Finland in this respect, for example, in a few years' time or ten years' time. I hope that the Minister will shed some light on what is being done here. It is also very good and important for the industry to know what the aim is, in the end, of this activism that the law is aimed at. So those alternatives are the use of gas and electricity, we all know that. There are already some cars, both electric cars and gas cars, but there is no such infra-fuelling, and those cars may not compete very well at their price. In my opinion, there is now a need for a little promotion in both the chicken and the egg sectors. Currently, the aid is linked to the purchase of electric cars. If you buy a biogas car or a gas car, even if it uses biogas, you pay a normal car tax for it, and I think that is wrong. Here is one practical measure that should be taken: When biogas is the raw material — and that is where we go all the time — the tax on cars should also react when the fuel used in these cars is clean once. So, to the extent that it is clean, the tax would react. From the point of view of this neutrality, too, when looking at the situation between gas cars and electric cars, it is important that the measures taken by the State are neutral in relation to both options. In addition, it is worth remembering that biogas is completely free of emissions, but electricity is not completely free of emissions for a long time in Finland either. In this sense, leaving biogas behind a small amount of electric cars — a little bit of what I see in these activities that have happened so far. I hope that this is not the case, but that genuine neutrality can be achieved in these matters. Mr President! Finally, in Finland, Gasum has made a good start with biogas suppliers and producers here. But I will go back a little bit to the generality of what is involved in the performance. It would be good if the government had little to do with the aim of clarifying the timetable, the kind of infrara and the number of clean cars for transport. For example, the background to the directive was that the maximum distance from the charging point to the others was 150 km. Now there is no mention of it at all in this bill. So once again: a little insight into what it would be in practice, and how to get those cars on the market more and more quickly. I would like to emphasise once again: the drop-in options are important and necessary, but they need to be accompanied by the alternatives we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u84	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u85	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your contributions. It is precisely as Vice-President Pekkarinen says: our biggest emissions from the non-emission trading sector come from transport, and most of these emissions from transport come from the passenger car sector. The fact that we are taking measures specifically aimed at passenger cars is now at the very heart of this. Our objective is to reduce transport emissions by half by 2030 and bring them to zero by 2050. All in all, this will require us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 3.6 million tonnes by 2030. We estimate that by 2030, by electrification of transport, we will be able to reduce some 0.6 million tonnes of this. We reach 2 million tonnes by using alternative fuels and by using them to promote different types of solutions. The rest then come precisely from the fact that we are making behavioural changes through the integration of land use and the transport system and by making public transport more efficient. All kinds of solutions are therefore needed. The Government has stated in the Energy and Climate Report that we are aiming for 250,000 electric cars by 2030 and 50,000 biogas cars by 2030. These objectives are modest in themselves and in practice mean that, at the moment, when our car fleet is the second oldest in Europe — it is 11.7 years old — we would need more significant and more structural reforms. Now, however, we are tied to the solutions that we have made. The objectives are clear and we have now set ourselves the objective of achieving by August, in good cooperation with the parliamentary working group, that we will find the means to achieve these objectives. The working group will present an interim report on this by August. The Energy and Climate Report has set out objectives and frameworks, but no means have been defined. The means will now be defined in this cooperation, which comes through parliamentary work. In addition to this, we will of course be taking the measures that we will in any case have to take in a legislative way. This proposal, which is now on the table, is precisely a very technical implementation of the directive, but it is not a political line on the means by which we can achieve these objectives. That is where we now have to wait for the work of the parliamentary working party and the results thereon. However, as regards this distribution infrastructure, I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has decided to support investments in public charging points for electric cars between 2017 and 2019 with a total of EUR 4.8 million. The aim is to mobilise some EUR 15 million in public charging and to triple the current public charging network within two years. At the same time, however, we note that the charging infrastructure must be built mainly on market terms, but we do not exclude the need and need for social support. The question for us now, then, in practice, is what are the tools that we are jointly prepared to use: supply support systems for transport taxation, increased support for the charging infrastructure and so on. This work has now been given to the parliamentary working group which is preparing these issues. The objectives can be found in the Energy and Climate Report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u86	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good speech, or should I say to the Minister and to the previous ministers, because we also heard Mr Pekkarinen's speech. Many times you stop and think about the purpose of the legislation we have adopted. Is it to give guidance and create the guidelines for social development that is hoped for in the future? As an engineer, you think that man, technology and society are increasingly a triangle, of which we need everyone, every triangle. Man can no longer survive without technology, and society cannot develop without man and technology. It is important that the law provides precisely those guidelines for the distribution of alternative fuels and for the emerging markets in the sector. That is why it is important that, when this parliamentary working party is considering how to achieve the objectives and how to get there, the incentives would be predictable and long-term and if, in particular, the use and innovation of new technologies, that product development, were given and given incentives, they would also be like taking into account the fact that Finland is a very different country and a country of long distances, so that we could create legislation that would not only be in the heat of the moment but would see long-term, predictability and incentive as an essential factor. We have good examples in this area, which have already been mentioned, including Gasum and Neste, where a few
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u87	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this law to promote the use of alternative fuels in transport is, of course, very much to be welcomed. I feel that any action that can reduce the use of oil and any action that can mitigate the harmful environmental impact of transport simply has to be taken, or should we say that we cannot afford not to do it? I believe that we all agree on this matter in this Chamber. The objective which has been set for the transport sector in the name of climate and energy policy — increasing electric cars, alternative fuels — is a challenging objective which, of course, needs to be tackled in this House with everything we can do. This 50% reduction in emissions to the transport sector by 2030 and these 250,000 new electric cars, in addition to the directives, are demanding different measures from us in good parliamentary cooperation here in the house. But most of all there is feedback from the public — and there has been quite a strong debate about electric cars — that the citizens are somehow confused or, in a way, do not yet know how, for example, the distribution network for electric cars will be managed in the future and whether we have the prerequisites for this long distances and distances in Finland. In a way, when we know more about it and have the courage to tell it the truth and realism, this house and the government of the country and, of course, the Ministry of Transport and Communications also have a responsibility to tell it forward. So this is the thing that most of all comes from now on in relation to these alternative fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u88	Mr President! Emissions and care for the environment are important issues and low-emission cars are even more important to deal with. Electric cars and new cars are expensive for ordinary people to start investing and buying, but luckily, such a device has been developed to turn a diesel car into a gas car by retrofitting. It allows it to become a low-emission car. It requires a change survey, but there are tax problems. I have been given the impression that there are huge tax problems, which will then have a bearing on the fact that there will be additional taxes to be paid. I would like to see these things change more through and consider how to support these things, that even older cars can be transformed into low-emission, so that they are environmentally friendly and that they do not incur extra costs for these migrants who care for the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u89	Mr President! Minister, in actual fact, this technology neutrality, which has been raised in this Government proposal in the opinion of Parkikähkö Oy. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions — if the Minister still has to answer at some point — that, when certain criteria have been laid down in this directive, in a way, to do what needs to be done and go to the level of electrical plugs, it is generally considered a good technology neutrality rule, however, that in any way. Here Parkielectrico Oy does not bring out what they mean, but I think it might be an induction charge, which is probably the future form. Now that the infrara is being carried forward, it is extremely important that we should be informed fairly quickly about how much is coming in which province and whether the provincial electricity companies are involved in this development of the infrastructure, perhaps with a larger operator. When it comes to information, people immediately make those purchasing decisions. When it is known that you will certainly be able to travel there in the province and perhaps in a slightly wider area by that car and especially in the length and east west, then there will be a change, which is likely to be quite rapid. I would like to raise this issue of technological neutrality. Then there's the other thing: As we move forward and try to achieve those emissions and emissions targets, as Vice-President Pekkarinen has mentioned, there is an important role to be played by biodiesel, and when we try to achieve those emissions targets, we must now also ensure that wood can be used. It is becoming even more important that Finland's forest felling targets are fulfilled and the Commission admits that there are sinks here, that we do not go into this kind of theoretical review, where we also mix with the obligation to mix, we will soon be in trouble, because wood must be used not only in the manufacture of biodiesel but also in the production of electricity and heat. This is a big problem. Then I would like to raise one point: when we go into new technologies and introduce electric cars — and I think it is certainly good that reforms are taking place — the socio-economic effects must be well known in the preparation of the reforms, i.e. who will be affected by them. In my first speech I pointed out that, when there are petrol and diesel cars in Finland, these old diesel cars, which will be guaranteed in 2030, would not be unduly penalised because there will be a blending obligation, and we know that when biodiesel is put in a tank, the price of diesel will increase. It must be borne in mind that we do not have subsidies for the buyer of a new electric car who, through it, will be able to enjoy this network and perhaps cheaper fuel, and then, in a way, those who drive old cars will have to pay. Another big thing, at least something important to me, is this: we know exactly how much taxes are collected from transport, and there has been a lot of talk about it recently — that is where, in this decade, we have started to raise 1.8 billion more than in 2009 — and some people and businesses are, of course, subject to this tax collection. I have two daughters. The other lives in Helsinki, and he moves in public, and he does not have a car, he is supported by the state and the city. The second is in Eastern Finland, where you have to have a car, because there is no public transport or it is rather bad. From him the government takes money and to a significant extent takes money. I have called for it when the parliamentary transport task force then continues its work, that we have a clear explanation of how much cars and driving licences are driven in which region and how necessary the car is in which area, so that we know which people and which companies are being taxed, because when that money goes to education and social and health care to a considerable extent, then the legitimacy of tax collection is taken into account. Once theoretical information is available, it will only then be possible to comment on these reforms and on the socio-economic and economic effects that must always be on the basis of government proposals and also on the basis of planning and preparation of officials.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u90	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for good preparation and good answers overall. I think that the traffic arch, and this debate too, contains good elements. But when we look at this overall blending obligation, Finland's commitments, my own concern relates to what will be the real cost to the state, industry and then to ordinary consumers. We do not have a proper analysis of this. Some estimates raise this figure to up to EUR 1.4 billion overall, and the impact on the gas tank would perhaps be about 10 to 30 cents per litre, so we are talking about a big issue — all at the same time as the rest of the world goes into electricity, electric cars and invests in related research and development. The overall energy and climate strategy, if and when it is the focus of bio alone, is a risk to Finland. It involves big political risks. At the same time, not only at European level, but also at Nordic level, we are looking forward to the report by Jorma Ollila on what the Nordic market looks like: what are the commitments made by Sweden, Norway and Denmark on similar issues? Coordination with neighbouring countries remains very unclear here. This is not a national issue; it is already a supranational issue. The measures in the burden-sharing sector, as we have talked about, focus on transport, but it almost completely ignores, for example, oil heating, which, from a technological point of view, would be the easiest area to achieve emission reductions. The Group of the SDP's Economic Committee will be a little critical of this 30% target. It could be 25%, for example, and 5% could be applied for elsewhere. As has been said, R & D investments were based on electriccars,electricaltransport andgastransport, and would be of our opinion, which is not to be Overall, Finland currently pays around EUR 300 million per year for energy subsidies. Most of the aid is paid in the form of a feed-in tariff for wind power. The energy sector itself, excluding the wind power sector, has a rather poor attitude towards new production subsidies. This trend has become more severe, especially since it has been found that subsidised production is confusing the electricity market and keeping market prices at a record low level. This, too, and all in all, business subsidies are the thing that affects this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u91	Mr President! And what is the view of the world? It was an opportunity to follow a major seminar where one Finnish operator was involved in preparing a global assessment of future fuels for transport. There were representatives of all major car manufacturers, the world's technology experts involved in this field, and yes, the clear priority of the group, its report up to the 2030s, was that the drop-in products were the first to arrive. They will be made available on a macro-economic basis, on a global macro-economic scale, faster and cheaper. Then gradually from these days and from the times that have already passed, these other options come and so away, and then in the 30th century they take their place. In other words, we need both, and the quickest way to move in this way. As far as aid for the transport of biofuels is concerned, they are not supported in any way at the moment. The State does not participate in the production of them by a cent, but it is a purely market-based activity as to how they are manufactured. Sometimes in the past, these plants received investment aid, but now new ones, when old plants are being multiplied, for example in the case of St1, will no longer receive new investment aid. They've gotten to the first ones, but they haven't. As far as the taxation of cars is concerned, I shall return to this neutrality, which, in my opinion, Mr Eestilä spoke quite well. I do not necessarily share the view that, at the moment, neutrality between electric cars and gas cars is quite right. In my opinion, electric cars are treated more cheaply than gas cars. And does the gas truck in the world have a strange revelation now? Not at all. There are over 800,000 gas trucks in Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u92	Mr President! Mr Pekkarinen is certainly right that a lot is happening in the world, but we do see the fact that car manufacturers are currently going and committing themselves to, both in Europe and in Asia: in practice, all car manufacturers are committed to large-scale electrification. Finland swims against the current in this development, excluding the fact that, fortunately, the New Town Car Factory is also allowed to make electric cars. These are still the costs for society. When we talk about these investments in factories, are you now saying, Mr Pekkarinen, that none of these investments would receive support for wood-based production processes? Of course, we have between 1 and 3 investments in Finland with a very high level of government investment, where knowledge comes from China or from outside Finland, which is not our own research and development know-how, often also equipment comes from outside Finland. Is this a real industrial policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u93	Mr Pekkarinen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u94	Mr President! I am now trying not to get involved in this political debate very closely. I have just told you that when there is a new type of technology investment, there will be support for it — it has so far come, and I understand that there will be even now. But I took another example: St1's investments when it invests in new biofuel production plants. If it uses the same technologies and factories of the same type, it will not receive new investment aid every time, will not, and the product itself will not receive any aid, it will be tax-free. Some may say that it is in a more favourable tax position, and if Mr Skinner had said so, this kind of support is, of course, linked to it but not to any other form. As far as these subsidies are concerned, the world is changing very much in terms of support for renewable energy. Germany put EUR 30 billion a year a few years ago, in 2016 they put EUR 22 billion a year and so on. Our 300 million is pretty big support too, and wind power takes most of it, that's true. Even at the time of the previous government, a decision was made to increase wind power with the old aid scheme, which had been decided on in 2010, and to introduce an additional offshore aid, which brought even more. But we already know that technology has moved forward so fast that support schemes can be reformed, for example, with regard to wind power and other renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u95	Secretary Berner, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, the Government's proposal is precisely a proposal for the implementation of the directive, and it is technologically neutral in the field of charging technology, but it does set a minimum requirement for public charging points, so that it implements the requirements of the directive directly. However, the targets set in the Government's Energy and Climate Report are of course such that the target for electric cars is 250,000 and for biogas vehicles 50000. This may be more from the way we believe the market is going to start, and also from the means by which we have the capacity to support the change that is needed in our car fleet. Instead, I think it is very important that we work together in the Nordic countries with regard to biofuels, and here we are, in fact, very active for Finland. About two weeks ago, we had a meeting with the Nordic Ministers of Transport and/or Energy here in Finland, and we went through five or six different points where we can work together to create a common market and create common conditions, for example, whether we can find an agreement on what the percentage of confusion should be in the Nordic countries together, thereby supporting the emergence of the market and reducing the needs for potential investments in support of society by creating genuine opportunities for supply. This is the work we must continue, and it is now being done in the form of the preparation of civil servants. We will see each other again in May, and then we will try to see how this can be done. What is also important now is that each of you is sending your own message to the parliamentary group and to work there, so that we can find a proposal that is as good and broad-based as possible for August as possible, and that we should then agree jointly on measures to reduce emissions from transport: what are we prepared to invest in it and then what are we prepared to use as different systems and subsidies, so that we can jointly take responsibility for ensuring that the emission reductions in transport are achieved in the agreed way by 2030? That work is now being done intensively and actively, every two weeks we meet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u97	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 2/2017 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u98	Mr President! I will briefly present the committee's report on the monitoring of party funding for 2016. The parties, the entities mentioned in the grant decision referred to in the Party Act and the party's related communities are covered by the right of scrutiny provided for in the Party Act. In fact, there are 145 to monitor overall. Now, eight parliamentary parties and then district and women's organisations have been involved in this inspection round. All of these inspections have been carried out in 2012-2016. In its inspections, the Agency drew particular attention to compliance with the euro ceilings and the restrictions on the content of the aid received. On the basis of these checks, the Agency considers that the up-to-date declarations of party financing are essentially correct after the additions and provide the relevant information on the aid received by the audited entities. The Audit Committee has produced an annual report on the supervision of party funding, i.e. since 2012. According to the Audit Office, the accounts of these supervised entities have, as a general rule, been properly managed in such a way as to enable control of the provisions of the Party Act to be carried out on the basis of the accounts. In 2012, the Audit Committee expressed the view that the trust fee charged for municipal trust actions can rightly be regarded as a fair-value performance within the meaning of party law, provided that it is not used to fund the election campaign. Since then, the Audit Office has taken into account the opinion of the Audit Committee in the application and interpretation of the law. Last year, in its report, the committee pointed out that candidates for all parties who, according to established practice, finance joint electoral work must be regarded as a natural part of the funding of electoral work and should not be regarded as external support under the reporting obligation. This is provided that the candidates themselves report the payments in their electoral declarations. The committee also notes that the shortcomings and development needs highlighted by the Agency on the basis of its supervision are important findings, but they are not problematic for the functioning of the system. The committee will continue to draw attention to the provisions on support for electoral and party funding and reporting obligations, which, according to the committee, should be clear and feasible in everyday election and party work and genuinely support the objective of the legislation to enable the assessment of the links between the basic activities of the parties and the funding of election campaigns. Mr President! This committee's report, as usual the reports of the audit committee, is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u99	Mr President! There is no need to take the floor for a long time, but I would also like to remind this House of the principle which we have often raised in the debate and which we have discussed here this season, that in the future, when we develop our different electoral practices and legislation, we should end up with a campaign ceiling in these electoral campaigns. We Social Democrats have supported this and we have often raised this point in the debate, and that is why I wanted to take the floor, President, because we are once again campaigning for elections. After all, the phenomenon has been clear in various elections: more and more money is spent on campaigns. It would therefore be wise to come back to the subject that was once also raised in the committee that prepared this legislation, namely campaign roofing. I also wanted to speak here, Mr President, because I think it would be good if, in democratic elections, money were not too much to solve and not just to make it as visible as possible, but, of course, to give priority to content and the issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u100	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 4/2017 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u101	Mr President! There is indeed now a proposal for a law on the environmental impact assessment procedure and some related laws. As a Member of Parliament of Uusimaa, environmental permit issues have become very familiar, as unfortunately, often in large projects requiring environmental authorisation, such as rock mining and rock crushing projects, the experiences of local residents are not taken into account in practice, even if they have been consulted at different stages of the process. In parallel, the Government’s proposal states that although the Yva law has been found to work, the customer perspective, i.e. the simultaneous application of different laws at the time when the project was set up or when the operation was expanded and changed, has been increasingly highlighted in recent years. This includes the environmental impact assessment procedure, the environmental permit procedure under the Environmental Protection Act, derogations decisions under the Nature Conservation Act, the water law permit, project planning and building permit procedure under the Land Use and Construction Act. Indeed, last night I last prepared one matter for the Administrative Court — whether it was now in a counter-explanatory phase — and, in general, in these statements, which have been requested from the environmental director of the local city and thus, it is stated that this mining and crushing does not cause undue harm in terms of protection distances. I will take this Espoo case again, which means that the locals will see that the distance to the destination is 100 metres less, and the city will see that it is 100 metres more, which is very special. I also find it interesting that, even if, in the context of the further preparation of the project, the main concerns of the inhabitants are indeed not taken into account, they are certainly not taken into account. I am referring to an example in Espoo, where I looked at them last night. However, when it states that the activities of the project will cause significant damage to the environment and to the population, it is strange if the officials do not follow this which has been observed and implemented at the base. All in all, I have noticed that in Finland, in principle, the law protects both the environment and the residents, but then, in practice, the environmental permit conditions are no longer strictly respected and then, on the other hand, when you apply for a change permit, you may apply for very significant quantities of mining.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u102	Mr President! This so-called Yva law is quite a worthy law. After all, the reform aims to facilitate the assessment of the environmental impact of projects and, at the same time, will in the future place greater emphasis on significant environmental impacts. Let it also be said from the outset that this Yva law has been discussed unanimously in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. In committee, we welcomed the possibilities contained in the proposal to reduce the duplication of procedures. This will be achieved, for example, by the possibility of carrying out an environmental impact assessment in the context of planning using a project-specific formula and linking the Natura assessment under the Nature Conservation Act with the environmental impact assessment procedure. All of this will at best reduce the time for the submission of the Natura opinion in several months and will therefore speed up these permit processes in the future. In the committee, we also stressed the possibility of simultaneous consultation where necessary and the inclusion of a provision on pre-negotiations in this new law. I personally feel that, although it is Thursday night and the last things, when the government has legislative proposals that can be worthwhile with a good heart, then it has to be done, and this is what it is. When you listen to Mr Ruoho’s speech, it is true that laws must continue to protect the environment as well as people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u103	Mr President! This government proposal actually implements the requirements of the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive and also seeks to coordinate environmental procedures, while at the same time taking measures to streamline procedures. Indeed, these environmental impact assessments and then the environmental permit issues have had to be streamlined. It's been spotted. The Government's proposal also suggests that environmental impacts can be assessed on the initiative of the project manager in a procedure other than the actual environmental impact assessment procedure, i.e. in practice, in the context of the land use and construction planning procedure. That is also a good thing. In particular, the government's proposal offers a good opportunity to reduce the duplication of procedures so that things and procedures can be streamlined and large projects can be speeded up. All in all, as Mr Taimela has already pointed out, this Yva law was before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and the report by the Committee on the Environment is also unanimous, and in good agreement this big issue will be brought forward, and I hope that these Yva issues will also be put into practice in good agreement and also smoothly in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u104	Mr President! We have had discussions in this Chamber over the last few days on a number of environmental protection legislation and its management through the Environment Committee. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have also had very colorful discussions on these issues, and I am very pleased that progress has now been made with these. This law on environmental impact assessment is perhaps the easiest law for us, because it was widely felt that it would be sensible to move this work forward in this way, to reduce red tape and clarify and streamline the operation. This law is now about the possibility of combining the consultation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure Act and the Land Use and Construction Act — good. It is also proposed to combine the Natura evaluation and the environmental impact assessment procedure under the Nature Conservation Act. The Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure would also allow an environmental impact assessment to be carried out under other legal procedures if that procedure meets the requirements laid down. This is just what legislative changes should be. This work will continue, and the Ministry of the Environment is preparing — and hopefully we will soon be able to deal with it — other processes that will clarify the authorisation procedure very much. This isn't going to lighten all the major problems. When I was working in the municipality of Savukoski itself and we had environmental impact assessments and environmental permit treatments related to the Sokli mine, among other things, it was difficult and complicated. But I hope that now, with this change, which is in this proposal, the appellants will also know when and when it makes sense to complain — not at every stage to start complaining separately, but to do things properly at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u105	Mr President! This streamlining of the authorisation procedure must not be at the expense of local residents and the environment. I myself am in favour of identifying at a very early stage the potential problems that cause health damage: noise, dust, vibrations or water pollution, which can also happen. I understand when I have discussed this with my Swedish colleagues that it is very important not to engage in such an area or place at all — then the complaints will be reduced. It is a terrible process of years of complaint, and it will be both a cost and a human suffering for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u106	Mr President! Finally, from this law, it is a good thing that there is a provision for a pre-negotiation procedure which prepares the kind of issues that should be dealt with here and who should be consulted and listened to. Indeed, this pre-negotiation provision, which is here, is not, however, such an appealable decision, which is essentially a debate in which this authority working on environmental impact assessment and the entrepreneur discuss together, which are probably the things that should be taken into account here in order to make this process as smooth as possible go forward. After the start of this actual process, it will then take into account the fact that everyone concerned will certainly be heard and listened to, and it will then carry out the complaintable environmental impact assessment process, which can involve all the relevant actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u107	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u108	Mr. Speaker! This bill deals with palliative care and hospice care. This bill is a joint initiative by representatives of the Central Parliamentary Group, and I shall now briefly present this initiative. Public health care obligations are laid down in the Health Care Act. In accordance with Article 24 of the Act, medical care includes, inter alia, the examination and treatment of diseases, treatment in accordance with long-term care plans, prevention and improvement of diseases, guidance on commitment to treatment and self-care, and early detection and treatment of people with special needs. Article 25 of the Health Care Act also defines home nursing and home hospital care as part of medical care. Good treatment is usually aimed at promoting the patient’s health or improving his condition. However, there is not always any cure available. This is the case in patients with incurable and potentially fatal long-term disease. In addition to disability, the patient may have persistent and severe pains and mental distress due to his illness and possible impending death. Also, the patient’s relatives and other fellow travelers experience anxiety because of the impending death. This situation requires special expertise from public health care — I also know it from my own experience, I have also worked in hospice care. Unfortunately, good palliative treatment and hospice treatment are still not being carried out throughout the country today. This bill aims to ensure that municipalities, together with hospital districts, ensure that palliative care and hospice care are available regardless of the patient’s place of residence or other circumstances. Palliative care and hospice care must include both national recommendations and regional plans covering both specialised care, primary health care and home care. They should also include support for loved ones. Mr President! Recommendations and plans shall take into account the different patient groups and their specific needs. I am raising, for example, children and the development of their hospice care. At the moment, children have not been taken into account separately in the hospice recommendations. The specific issues of children should be integrated into the whole. In hospice care, it is particularly important to take into account the potential siblings of the child to be hospice and their need for support. I myself, Mr President, have also worked in hospice care for children. In addition to general plans, each hospice patient must also have a personal care and service plan, the importance of which is emphasised as the end of life approaches. Mr. Speaker! In order to make palliative and hospice care available throughout Finland in the future, this bill obliges nurses to acquire the skills of these treatments as well. In order to ensure the availability and quality of care, the share of palliative and hospice care currently needs to be increased in basic and further health care training. Competence also includes determining the right moment when it is time to switch to palliative or hospice therapy. Once disease progression has reached this stage, the patient’s own will to treat should be respected and treatment lines should be decided with the patient and possibly with his/her loved ones. Mr President! There is no need for separate legislation on hospice or palliative care. The Health Care Act defines the functions of municipal health care and it is very natural that the necessary additions are made to the same law. Thus, this bill proposes an amendment to Article 24 of the Health Care Act, which defines the content of the municipal health care services. The content will also include palliative treatment and hospice treatment. In addition, the bill proposes to amend section 25 of the Act, which defines the content of home hospital care. This amendment aims to allow patients in palliative or hospice care to be treated at home, in a familiar environment where they could also face death with dignity. Mr President! We all know that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently going through quite a lot of legislation. The purpose of this initiative is that this important issue of palliative and hospice care should not be forgotten in the face of day-to-day political pressures.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u109	Mr President! There is a bill on the development of palliative care and hospice care signed by the central parliamentary group. The law initiative is timely because of the citizens' initiative on euthanasia. The Health Care Act lays down the responsibilities of public health care. According to Article 24 of the Act, medical treatment includes extensive medical research and treatment and self-care. It should be borne in mind that it is not always possible to carry out curative treatment. This is the case in the case of terminally ill patients or long-term patients with fatal disease. At the end of the disease, the patient’s pain can be unbearable and the situation causes mental, physical, and mental distress. Events are also difficult for loved ones and relatives. In these situations, current medical obligations are not always met at an adequate level. Mr President! This bill aims to ensure proper and appropriate care throughout Finland. In many places, hospice and palliative care in the final stages of life are too difficult to achieve. Palliative treatment refers to the treatment of an incurable, dying person in situations where the disease is no longer curable. Instead of switching to symptomatic palliative therapy at the end of life, many studies show that we in Finland are often treated unnecessarily with aggressive treatments at a time when nothing can be done anymore. Mr President! As death approaches, part of the palliative care includes hospice. The hospice is for the last days of life, the dying patient and the patient’s loved ones are supported by an imminent death. The aim of hospice therapy is to make the last days of life as peaceful and human as possible, and, as the explanatory text of the bill also states, hospice therapy does not include actively helping the patient to die. Good medication is used to relieve physical and mental symptoms in the last few days. Doctors and other medical staff must be able to understand that a person who lives for his last days or hours no longer suffers from the adverse effects or addictions of strong painkillers. The last option to relieve untenable pain is palliative sedation. In practice, this means putting the patient to sleep just before he dies. Areas of competence in hospice care include the ability to evaluate, treat and apply information systematically and with sufficient skill to treat suffering and the symptoms that cause it, psychosocial, physical, mental, spiritual, existential and cultural needs and desires, their understanding and consideration in the planning and implementation of treatment, the signs of impending death and the moment of death and the support of loved ones after the death of the patient. Mr President! Although palliative treatment and hospice treatment have developed strongly in our country, work is still ongoing. A three-step hospice model is being built in Finland, where every person would have equal access depending on the difficulty of the situation. Levels are high standard hospice, special hospice and then local hospice. At present, the skills of specific and specialised hospice care are not available to everyone and there are also shortcomings in primary hospice care. The teaching of hospice is not systematically available in all medical faculties or health institutions. There are also shortcomings in further training. Doctors can perform the special qualifications of palliative medicine of the Finnish Medical Association, but other health care professionals do not have training leading to a degree. In many European countries, palliative medicine is a university level education programme or its own field of expertise. Mr President! The objective of this bill is to ensure equal access to palliative care and hospice care throughout the country in the future. The bill proposes an amendment to Section 24 of the Health Care Act, which therefore defines the content of the municipal health care services. The bill also adds palliative and hospice care to municipal tasks. An amendment is also proposed to the content of the law on home care. According to the explanatory memorandum, this amendment aims to allow patients in palliative or hospice care to be treated in a familiar environment where they could also die safely in the presence of their families.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u110	Mr President! Some time ago, we held a debate here in the Chamber on the citizens' initiative on euthanasia. After that, we all went out of this hall very quietly, because it is a very difficult and difficult matter, and each of us has the personal experience of the debate in the environment. For many, Euthanasia as such would certainly make sense, but euthanasia must by no means be an option for anyone. No man should ever think of the fact that I am expected to die, that I will be costly to society only in this last hour. Living must always be a fundamental right, for which there must be absolutely no restriction, regardless of all the things around it. Our group has tabled this initiative, and I am very grateful that we in the Centre Group have these previous medical representatives who can present this issue in a truly professional way, and even in such a clear language that we can understand it now. We are very much in favour of this, and in future we really must invest in it, because everyone must have a truly valuable last moment with society and with their loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u111	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u112	Mr President! The question of my constitutional initiative is: what is the purpose of the Finnish state's existence? My answer to this question is that it is intended to form a nation state that serves the interests of Finns. Serve the interests of Finns so that Finns can live in peace and security and work as one nation building their homeland. We are on the verge that the constitutional interpretation of our country no longer serves primarily the interests of the Finnish people. With this bill, I propose that the Constitution should include that the primary task of the Finnish State is to safeguard the rights of Finnish citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u115	Mr President! The Constitution lays down the basis on which ordinary laws can be enacted, and this basis should reflect the concept of right and desirable for the vast majority of our citizens. I am in the impression that the majority of Finns believe that the country should first care for its citizens, those who have built our country and its well-being over the years, and if anything remains, it may be possible to improve the world. Now, however, we do not get over it. There are enormous austerity pressures in the state economy, despite the fact that we are constantly in debt. In this situation, it is important for us to realise that we cannot solve all the problems in the world or include all of our social security systems. Now, however, we have a special situation in which our own legislation can prevent us from putting our own country and our people first when these necessary choices need to be made. For many people, this may come as a surprise to us as to the strict limits that our Constitution and its current political tone can create in this matter. Mr President! I believe that this amendment to the Constitution proposed by Mr Tavio is a good start in order to put this matter in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u116	Mr President! I would like to remind us of the amendment of the Finnish Constitution when it was added that Finland is a member of the European Union, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that this is justified by the principle of completeness and that the nature of the provision must be stated and not altering the legal status. There was an exclamation here just now, when Mr Tavio presented this bill, that is now the interpretation of the law, that we think of Finland's interests first. However, we have also adopted this legislation on the European Union, as it is stated and as a strengthening of the legal situation. And that might be good when we think about these considerations, which I myself, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have to do, in these situations where different fundamental rights and constitutional provisions are being weighed. The so-called Tenojoki Convention between Finland and Norway, which was discussed a lot, and in the Constitutional Committee we weighed the responsibility for the environment in the Constitution, the protection of property, the status of the Sámi as an indigenous people and equality — it had to be carried out with enormous weight. If there are more fundamental rights in an area, such as the Saami, there is a certain amount of weight attached to it because of this special protection. In that sense, I think it might be a good idea for us to seriously consider this type of entry into the Constitution. Then, in different weighing situations, we could also receive support for these interpretations.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u117	Mr President! It should be noted that the Constitution is by no means an unchanging monument in Finland, as is often thought, for example, in the United States or in some other countries. Our Constitution has been amended several times in the past decades. A good example of this change in the constitutional status of EU membership mentioned by Mr Mere. After all, this was done by the previous Parliament, and it was then justified that it was only to be recorded in the law. However, situations have now emerged that this entry is used in expert opinions as a lever to justify Finland’s inability to separate from the EU or monetary union, the euro. This was not supposed to be the case, but it has been the case, and this leads to the fact that these interpretations could not be made. The removal of such a entry from the Constitution could also be justified. Over time, things have been removed, including good things that could be thought of being added.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u118	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä is right that the Constitution has been amended before. The Constitution that preceded the 1995 constitutional reform included stronger civil rights. The last time the Constitution has been changed to a greater extent, it was not yet sufficiently understood how the state of affairs could become a threat to and injustice to the welfare state when the rights of Finnish citizens were extended to every person in the Finnish jurisdiction. I am very pleased that there is also a colleague, Leena Meri, who is a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. He understands this very well. For example, when the government tried to reduce integration support here, it was eventually found to be contrary to the Constitution, because it would treat an unemployed immigrant differently in relation to an unemployed Finnish citizen. It can therefore already be said that the current formulation of the Constitution has proved to be very unfavourable to Finnish citizens and Finnish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u119	Mr President! I do find it a little strange that there really is nothing in this Chamber but Mr Tavio, Mr Mäkelä and I discussing such a big issue. These talk very much to the citizens, and we are also contacted very much about what is written there in the Constitution and how it limits and so on. It would have been a great opportunity to have a debate on constitutional interpretations, but I do not even see Mr Zyskowicz here, who is so happy to discuss them. Too bad he didn't bother to show up. I don't know where it is. I myself would like to take another thought on what this type of section might support. We have thought in this way that people are equal before the law and that no one should be put in a different position without an acceptable basis, but if there is an acceptable basis, then it has been possible to legislate. For example, it has been possible to improve the position of women by, in a way, discriminating against men in order to achieve that objective. Then, on the other hand, we have Article 9 of the Constitution, which states that Finnish citizens and foreigners legally residing in the country are free to move and to choose their place of residence. Now I myself might think that such a record could provide additional support for what I myself have had, that, for example, if a person has received a negative decision on asylum and a legitimate decision to leave the country, this could be an acceptable reason for restricting mobility, for example. After all, we now have problems with a certain number of people missing, and this is a cause for concern in people. This type of entry could provide additional support. I personally believe that this would already be possible in the context of the current Constitutional provisions. This has not been tested, but we should discuss it now. It's a shame the three of us here are having this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u120	Mr President! Mr Meri said that quite aptly. It is a miracle, therefore, that on such an interesting subject as giving priority to Finnish citizens, representatives of other parties have not even bothered to discuss it there. I do not know whether this subject is sensitive to the old parties, but at least it can be said that it is important for the Finns. If it weren't for the Finns, there wouldn't be a debate here. As far as I am aware, amendments to the Constitution have been tabled very rarely, so this is not a normal initiative in any way. However, I consider this to be a very topical matter, because the debate is more than ever about whether confidence in Finnish organised society will be maintained, because trust in organised society requires that the Finnish taxpayer knows that the taxes he pays will be used primarily for activities that promote his own society. Tax payments, on the other hand, to support the well-being of foreign citizens is a long way from the core tasks of an organised state, so that there is already a lack of confidence in the ability of the Finnish State to care for its own citizens. This has become apparent, as the President well knows, for example in the use of billions of euros to support illegal immigrants or to support the over-indebted Greek state.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u121	Honorable Speaker! Finally, I should like to speak on behalf of Mr Tavio, however, of the courage to bring this to the debate. These are not always simple things, and especially when it comes to immigration and asylum seekers, it is very emotional. And as we know, there are many kinds of immigration. Many people have a genuine need, and they get asylum here. Children, families, elderly people will then be very welcome. But for interpretation situations, we could use a backrest through this too. I hope that this will open up a debate, but at least today it will not give rise to any more. Mr Tavio and Mr Mäkelä spoke well, and I thank you very much for bringing this matter here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-03-30-ps-32.u122	Mr President! Now that there are no representatives of the old parties here to opponate this, I have taken a stand against myself to say that this kind of preference for our own citizens is, in fact, a universal standard for the constitution of a wide range of countries. Of course, those constitutions in other countries have also changed and shaped themselves over time, but perhaps the most famous constitution in the world, the Constitution of the United States, for example, clearly states that it is designed to protect its own citizens. However, I would also like to point out, as if to opponate myself yet again, the role of a state, which should therefore be primarily to safeguard the rights of its own citizens: this mission, which I am presenting, does not mean in any way undermining fundamental rights or the human rights that are close to them, but is about what state philosophy the Finnish state exists and how the Finnish state defends the rights of its own people for the next 100 years.
