ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u2	First question, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u3	Mr President! Mr Orpo, I must now tell you what is happening outside this house. Too many Finns feel that they are still missing out on the fruits of the budding economic growth you advertised today. People must feel that they are valuable and that they are also treated fairly. We also know that it will create more stability and security. Simply: the development of inequality must now be halted. The Minister of Finance has stated that income differentials will increase in Finland. As we all know, if only some win, everyone loses. During the fall, people I met have told me that they have had their pension or daily allowance cut, and the medical benefits have been reduced. This is very sad to hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u4	Mr President! Yes, my heart says that the years of economic distress and high unemployment that we have had must be able to deal with. We need to get the economy to grow and unemployment to fall. This is the job that's been done. It's the only way. It is the only way we can get out of the way of what has been done during the last two governments, and also during this government, that we have to adjust our spending and even make painful cuts. It's the only way. I don't think even when the SDP was on the board, that cutting was nice, I'm sure it wasn't nice. That is why I am glad that our economy has grown, that debt is falling. That day is ahead of us that we do not have to think about where the next surgery will be. That day is ahead, it is in sight, but we must do even more. Then we can be even better at helping people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u5	And I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the maximum duration of both questions and answers is 1 minute. Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u6	Mr President! This Finnish welfare state has been built in turn by both women and men for decades. Now they're watching what this generation is doing for them. In recent years, the government has operated on pensioners in many different ways. The reduction in medical benefits, the freezes on national pensions, the increase in property tax and many other deteriorations have reduced the income available to pensioners. Moreover, retired citizens cannot make a significant contribution to their own livelihood through their work. You were talking, Orphan, about making a living. Pensioners can't do that. There will be no wage increases for them, for the government cuts will be sorely affecting them until 2019. Mr Orpo, could we now decide together that these people who receive a small pension should be taken as a matter of common concern and corrected for the cuts that have been made to them?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u9	Mr President! I say that I myself have met and know those pensioners who live on very small incomes. I've heard these real-life, everyday stories about how tough and difficult it is. The medicines we have sought: firstly, we secure our equal good services — but services are those that all achieve, and if some belong to everyone. We have already increased the guarantee pension by three different decisions during this term of government. But, ladies and gentlemen, our Finnish welfare society has two promises above all else. They're a service promise and a pension promise. Neither of these can be achieved — i.e. equal access to good services for every Finnish citizen, or the pension promise that for the 1.5 million pensioners and future pensioners today, we will pay the pensions they are entitled to — without a high employment rate;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u10	Mr President! In recent years, the government has indeed operated on pensioners in many different ways. Drug reimbursements have been cut, even in the case of diabetes, national pensions have been frozen, service charges have been increased and there are many other ways of weakening
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u13	Mr President! These are extremely important things. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u14	Mr President! The increase in poverty and inequality is a direct consequence of government policy — basic security has been weakened, the index has been frozen and cut, housing allowance and the level of medical compensation has been reduced. A particularly incomprehensible surgery is the reduction of the replacement level for type 2 diabetes medicines. Anyone who knows even the least about the matter knows that non-use of medicines increases costly additional illnesses and complications. Now we know that many elderly people with low incomes have failed to buy antidiabetic drugs, when the money is simply not enough. What's the point? And what savings does the government expect to make with this? Minister Orpo, could not even this absurd savings be cancelled because this savings are really expensive?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u15	Mr President! The pharmaceutical reimbursement system is in the area of responsibility of Minister of Social Affairs and Health Pirkko Mattila, but I recognise the importance of this issue and, in his absence, we want to answer this as a government. This issue was related to a broader overall solution in which, as a result of the working group of experts, we drew up a proposal relating to the total reimbursement of medicines and their changes and, yes, a reduction in the level of reimbursement for certain categories of medicinal products. We have different levels of reimbursement for different types of medicines, and that decision was related to the category of diabetes medicines that are in practice included in the reimbursement category. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stressed at that time that the consequences of this decision should be assessed and carefully examined. In particular, therefore, if a situation arises that it is found that poor people do not receive medicines for this reason,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u18	Mr President! I understand that the money is tight, and that is why justice and internal solidarity are being emphasised. The current tax system has created a kind of tax haven for large foundations, allowing wealthy individuals to escape tax almost entirely. It is unreasonable for even small companies that are at market risk to pay capital income tax when truly wealthy associations and foundations receive stable capital income free of tax. The reform envisaged by the True Finns would only apply to the largest foundations and very wealthy associations. Now I ask: would the government be prepared to tax the capital of large foundations and associations? This would give us tens of millions of euros, for example, for medicines for pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u19	Mr President! This is in the Government Programme, the study of the taxation of foundations and non-profit institutions and, on the basis of it, the reflection on whether it needs to be developed in order to expand the tax base, and this work is currently being carried out at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u22	Madam President! The policy of the Sipilä government has both heart and sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u25	Madam President! This debate on the development of inequality is extremely important. We have promised to secure services for every Finnish and human life and livelihood for every Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u28	Mr President! Today we are talking about the right things when we talk about increasing inequality. There are so many ways to balance the economy. Prime Minister Sipilä asked Finns a lot when he asked even the weakest people to take part in the joint projects and give up their minimum. Pensioners, especially those with very low incomes, gave their minimum. Now we are quite right to ask that, with this economic growth, which you have followed, would it be time for these fruits to be returned to those who have given little and to restore justice? And what will our government do? You, Mr Orpo, are squirming there and you are implying that we are just saving,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u31	Mr President! I am still repeating myself, but the main objective of the government is to raise employment. It's the only way we can guarantee our well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u34	Next question, Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u35	Mr President! The increased price of housing is a major obstacle to purchasing power and the economy. In the alternative budget published by the Finns on Tuesday, there is a relief model for housing billing, which includes many measures. The Finns of Finland would bring direct financial relief through the introduction of the so-called migration allowance, in which the person moving in after work would not immediately be in trouble with housing. In addition, we want to cancel the government's planned increases in the price of heating fuels. So I ask the Minister of Finance Orpo: is the government going to promote the model of housing for Finns? You don't seem to have any relief from living here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u36	Madam President! Firstly, these issues of housing policy belong to Minister Tiilikainen, he is not here. Housing, its price, the availability of decent rental housing and housing in general in Finland, is one of the most important issues to be addressed and worked on. We currently have a major problem of availability of labour, a problem of matching, and the main reasons behind this are that affordable housing cannot be found where there are jobs, that is, at present the main problems are in the capital region and in the major growth centres. Minister Under the leadership of Tiilikainen, the government is making determined efforts to increase housing construction and affordable housing production, and at the same time we need to consider how we can encourage, help people to leave and move after work, because it often presents issues such as own-ownership housing as a big challenge. This is a big social issue, important for growth, for people's livelihood.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u37	And if there are any further questions on this subject, please register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u38	Mr President! This is a good idea, but concrete action is needed, as a matter of urgency. One of the biggest mistakes in recent history was the sale of electricity networks. It was handled without stylistic points when Katainen was the Prime Minister and Green Haavisto were in charge of state ownership control. This mistake was extremely costly for Finnish residents. Caruna raises prices, and foreign investors rub their hands. It can be said that the sale of the power grid was an unpatriotic act. The Finns of Peru also have relief in this regard. There are huge surpluses in transfer pricing, and the Energy Agency allows absurd profit expectations. So, among other things, we allow Caruna to tear down terrible prices. That is why the Finns of Peru propose that electricity transmission be reduced to 4.5 per cent of the income claim. This concerns all our citizens. Minister, are you giving the Finns relief and starting to prepare for this calculation of profit expectations? Housing costs are quite unreasonable at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u39	Minister Tiilikainen is not here, so this question is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u40	Next question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u41	Madam President! The government has been indifferent to poor populations and poverty reduction has not been on its agenda. The room for manoeuvre created by economic growth has been used for tax reductions for the well-incomed and forgotten for the disadvantaged. Relative poverty is estimated to have risen by more than 12% during this government. The government's operations are congregated with the same groups of people. The freezing of the index increase in child supplements and the restriction of subjective day care rights have made the daily lives of many families of children more difficult. Further weakening is also caused by the abolition of the tax deduction for children. According to the Ombudsman for Children, poverty is once again inheriting and deepening in Finland as a result of this policy, and there is reason to ask the Minister for Finance: are you aware that experts have warned that poverty in families with children is again deepening in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u42	Minister Orphan. - Island or Orphan? Now you have to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u43	Mr President! The subject is important and common to the government. As your question focused particularly on the whole of families with children, I will answer the question. It is quite true that poverty among families with children in Finland is an overgenerational and widespread phenomenon, of which all the parliamentary parties in this Chamber will certainly bear responsibility as well as concern. It is true that in the early part of the parliamentary term, we made decisions that weakened the livelihood of families with children. That is why I am very pleased that we have been able to take decisions on next year's budget which will reverse the trend. I am not exaggerating their impact or overemphasizing them into drastic measures, but I am describing a change of direction. Reducing early childhood education fees by the Ministry of Education is a large entity that brings around 7000 families with children into the zero-payment category. It is an important act to combat poverty in families with children. Also the most vulnerable families with children, those with minimum maternity and paternity allowance, are now receiving:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u44	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u45	I am very pleased that the government is looking in its direction. For example, the fact that at the same time there has been a drastic reduction in student money and housing allowance has been very worrying for families who are just studying, and this has made it very difficult for them to concentrate on their studies. However, the government’s indifference towards family poverty continues to be reflected in the drafting of legislation, which is largely lacking in quality impact assessments. If they had been done carefully, the government might have noticed that its cuts are piling up for certain groups of people, such as pensioners and families with children. When young people and children get sick and uneducated, there is reason to ask: do you promise to carry out comprehensive child impact assessments in all legislation relating to children and families with children in order to stop the deepening of child poverty?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u46	Mr President! I inherited an important question, and the subject is already arising from the Sipilä Government's programme. There is a programme to change the services of families with children, which is therefore a broad-based programme for turning the focus of services in a preventive direction, in the minds of many where we might still be in the 80s to 90s, and we would improve our running from it. This package includes the objective that the impact assessment on children will be an increasingly stable and significant part of all legislative drafting. However, I do not accept your claim that at the moment the impact on children has not been evaluated at all. This is what is happening in the legislation, but perhaps a broader overgeneration of the effects of our decisions — they were negative or positive in next year’s budget — would be needed in the longer term for the sustainability of Finland and thus for the benefit of the future generation. Perhaps the impact on children should be assessed not only from today's point of view but also from the point of view of tomorrow's children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u47	Mr President! The Government's own report made the country's main internal security challenge an ever-expanding social exclusion – that people are divided into success and exclusion. The government's own policy deepens this problem and replaces more and more people. Poverty, inequality and non-participation are growing strongly, despite a turnaround in the economy. There has been a huge cut in education and basic human security, and at the same time the government has favoured high incomes and its own interest groups and has not sought to reduce income inequalities. The government selected inefficient and environmentally harmful tax and corporate subsidies. In their own future budget, the Greens chose to invest in education and the fight against inequality. We are investing more than EUR 640 million in the fight against poverty. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: are you going to take up the future budget for the Greens and the measures taken there to reduce poverty and inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u48	Mr President! We are familiar with and very carefully familiarise ourselves with the presentations made by all the groups. There were a lot of good, right priorities in the Greens' proposal, and the level of ambition, thank you for that. But I also think that there was a problem in your budget that there were some very vague items on the revenue side, such as additional funds to combat the shadow economy. In other words, it is not so simple to find these new contributions that we have to stick to the fact that debt is falling apart. But as far as the increase in inequality is concerned, if employment improves — if we have almost 60,000 fewer unemployed than one year ago, if we have 20,000 fewer long-term unemployed than one year ago — then it is better for us. It will reduce inequality in this country. When a person gets a job, it is the biggest rise from poverty and the risk of exclusion or exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u49	Madam President! The sad fact of today's Finland is that even employment does not protect against poverty. We have calculations that as many as 500,000 Finnish workers — low-paid, temporary, zero-labour contracts and so on — live below the poverty line. You certainly want figures: 70,000 under 30 years of age live below the poverty line, 100,000 children live below the poverty line, 350,000 pensioners live on a monthly income of less than EUR 1000. The SDP conducted a wide-ranging civic survey on the difficulties of livelihoods for people and families. We received as many as 1,000 responses to it and, among other things, raised the cost of living, precisely this problem of employment, low wages and day care fees as major factors. Does the government not understand that increasing purchasing power would increase
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u50	Madam President! This, too, is an important angle in this process of inequality. It is a clear fact, a clear fact, that those who work are also below the poverty line. When we think about the big questions when we go towards the 2020s, I think we should courageously consider, too, whether basic income, for example, could be one part of the human wage formation when talking about a low-paid person. There are many very sensitive and difficult questions here, but I believe that they should also be openly addressed. It must not lead to the cheapness of that work. But now that this basic income is being tested by this government, I believe that there could be an open debate about this, whether this could reduce the threshold for taking up work and then also address the problem which you raised, the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u51	Mr President! The debate started with young people and families with children, and unfortunately in Finland today, poverty, exclusion, is more hereditary than in the past, and this should not be the case. I would like to draw attention to two points: Another is the differentiation of young people's leisure opportunities according to their wealth. Hobbies are extremely expensive today, and in some way this path should be smoothed out for young people. But another, even more serious issue is the issue of exclusion from education. Studies have recently been published specifically in the field of secondary education: in both vocational and upper secondary education, excessive fees for learning materials, books, teaching tools may be the cause of the drop-out and create more exclusion. What is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u52	Mr President! First of all, about this hobby: It has been recognised that there is a very effective and good prevention of exclusion, that children and young people will be able to engage in hobbies and a wide range of meaningful leisure activities. It is true that the costs have risen and that is why the government has set itself the goal of a hobby guarantee, i.e. that every child has the opportunity to have a hobby of at least one mind, and that it will be taken forward together with municipalities, the third sector and all potential actors who affect children's leisure opportunities. In addition, the important promotion of young people's educational opportunities and the fact that no one should break the path of education due to lack of resources was also highlighted. As we are concerned about this, I have commissioned a study by the National Board of Education on what is the current state of affairs, what is the current state of affairs on this matter. As a result, we will be able to take measures when we have that report at the beginning of next year. I promise that the government will do everything in its power to give every young person in this country the opportunity to study.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u53	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u54	Mr President! This week, under the municipal self-government, Meri-Lap decided on the largest outsourcing of social services in the kingdom when a whole central hospital is transferred to Mehiseinen for treatment. The duration of the agreement is 15 years and its termination would result in a decrease of up to EUR 100 million. The reason for this absurd decision is the concern of the locals that the services would be transferred to Rovaniemi or Oulu. Thus, the central local decision-makers decided to support a massive outsourcing against the wishes of the central minister, Annika Saarikko, because they wanted to save services from the cuts in special medical care run by the central ministers. Mr Saarikko, this problematic decision is, above all, the result of the government's poor preparation for social welfare when the cuts in special care were brought out of the social welfare reform as a whole. How are you going to prevent more cases like this from happening in the government, given:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u55	Mr President! I think it is right to take an honest look at what the questioner here has pointed out, that certainly one of the factors that led to this solution in Meri-Lap was the general uncertainty in the preparation of the social welfare reform for years and, on the other hand, the idea that the company offered by its own presentation the opportunity to concrete the current situation as such, regardless of the demographic or cost parameters of the region. This proposal was something which, in my opinion, should not have been promoted, in relation to the ability of the very future province to deliver services, above all by means of basic health care. In the background of the debate within the province, which, I think, has been quite inflamed, I understand. It's been hard to find a common table and perspective. Of course, the underlying factor is that, in the case of special medical care, this division of duties between surgery, particularly demanding surgery, throughout Finland — which does not leave
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u56	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u57	Mr President! In this regard, Minister Saarikko replied that this decision had the effect of betoning the current situation, but the change in this respect is in relation to the current situation, that it also had the strength of a single group of companies in this Western Ostrobothnia solution. Minister Saarikko, you have said that it is difficult for you to understand how companies, on the one hand, are demanding freedom of choice while at the same time seeking regional monopolies such as the West North. From our point of view, the answer to this question is easy: they are the same thing. In basic services, this system of freedom of choice, which is being promoted by the government, is likely to be built on the regional monopoly of a few strong business players. So the question is, Minister Saarikko: why are you advocating a social model which is likely to result in regional private monopolies everywhere but perhaps in the major cities?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u58	Mr President! There were many dimensions to your question. First of all, with regard to this current situation in the West North, the Minister has now asked the supervisory authority in Lapland to assess whether that solution has been adopted in accordance with all the provisions of the law. In addition, yesterday the government has decided, as if for similar cases, to tighten up the so-called restriction law already in place and adopted by Parliament, precisely with regard to similar outsourcing solutions, so that the overall picture and confidence in services can be maintained more widely. Even the government's objective with this reform, ladies and gentlemen, is to secure local services. Our focus is on combating inequalities over services, integration, i.e. looking at people as a whole from the point of view of both social and health services, and changing to local services with easy access and access to services. As far as my assessment of this is concerned, I certainly find it intolerable if we do not want to achieve a controlled multi-disciplinary approach, i.e. a variety of service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u59	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, you must have known all the problems related to the future of the Kemi-Tornio region, or Western Ostrobothnia, in good time, you also knew the tensions within the region and the province. Finally, you ensured that a bad solution would be achieved by an unfortunate intervention in the very last few metres — the fact that you promised to continue the labor activity for two years seemed nothing more than an unfortunate mercy. It is only when there is enough of it that authority should be put in the game. Minister Saarikko, do you feel that you have failed in this matter and, if so, how do you intend to correct your own mistakes?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u60	Mr President! Of course, this is a place of self-criticism. At the same time, this solution has been in the hands of the decision-makers in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u63	Mr President! Health technology is developing rapidly, ward beds are decreasing and treatments are developing, and of course services must develop at the same rate. The reform of social and health services aims to ensure equal services for citizens, and, at the same time, savings in special care have also been agreed in government negotiations, which are very difficult for many regions. It is clear that hospitals must also do work-sharing, and this happens in many provinces, such as Etelä-Savo, where cancer surgery is apparently centralized in Mikkeli and technone debt cuts in the Savonlinna Central Hospital. I would have asked the Minister: do you still consider it possible and necessary to do this kind of division of labour between the central hospitals of the Province of Lapland in this new situation? After all, everyone only wants to develop services in their own region.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u64	Mr President! Despite all this criticism here and despite the complexity of the situation, I understand the decision-makers in the region and the concern that has been associated with the local service and the debate, which has also been strongly attended by healthcare professionals. There have also been misconceptions that we would reach practically only one hospital in the Lapland area on a national level, and there has been talk of turning off the lights from the health centre level, despite the fact that it is clear that in the West of the North we will also be on call and special care measures will also be taken. I would like to answer your question: now if there is ever a need for division of labour, and now if there is ever any reason to wonder whether there will still be common denominators in the region. When Western Ostrobothnia made its own decision, it actually made decisions for the whole of Lapland and Northern Finland, because of the adequacy of the population base, thus patient safety and the competence of experts, their qualified doctors and nurses,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u65	Mr President! That solution in Meri-Lap was created by a single majority when the Social Democrats wanted to privatise those services. That is, by a single majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u66	Mr President! As I mentioned, the government ministers for reform and the Committee on Economic Policy have held a debate on the amendment to the so-called restriction law prepared during the autumn. In any case, that law is on the board of the government because the transformation phase of the wars is now longer than the original year and the provinces start to be responsible in 2020. In that context, we agreed that the law — as soon as possible and the parliamentary timetables within the committee — would come into force in a tightened-up manner so that, for the regions that have just been born, both in Lapland and in the 17 other regions, the grounds for dismissal could be implemented without compensation to the former joint venture, i.e. by not committing the province to decisions that have been taken for several decades if the value of the contract exceeded 30 % of the total budget and the need for services instead of the previous 50 %.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u67	Mr President! There is a major concern in that region of Western Ostrobothnia about how the services of special care and basic services will be organised in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u72	Mr President! First of all, this whole social welfare reform is designed to safeguard public services and strengthen the public operator.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u76	Mr President! Indeed, this case in Western Ostrobothnia shows that local authorities are currently not fully confident that local services can be secured in the context of social welfare reform. The Government of the Emergency Services Reform has already broken through and will come into effect from the beginning of next year, which will put an end to cutting operations in many localities and will focus on regional centres. And this deck is pretty messed up anyway. Here in Parliament, private services are horrified or assured that this will be all right, while in the provinces the disappearance of services from the sparsely populated region is horrified and negotiations with private parties are held. The Government's reaction to this case in the West North shows that it is now impossible to trust that the municipalities will be able to make decisions about themselves — yes, they will be free to decide, except when the government does not like their decisions. If necessary, then the law must restrict the freedom of municipalities, i.e. in practice the right of local self-determination. I wonder if it would be, the government, that this decision, the case of the West North, would not be in any way
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u77	Mr President! As far as the first part of Mrs Wallin's question is concerned, I only correct the factual error in the fact that surgery, which uses and requires anesthesia, stops in regional hospitals. As if the claim that surgery ends in hospitals is not entirely true in itself. As far as concerns were concerned earlier, even the national concern, the organisation of special health care in the northern part of Finland and the whole of social welfare services, it was precisely for this reason, as I mentioned, that the rapporteurs Manninen and Rask were set up to strengthen this division of labour in the region. Of course, I think it is a place for in-depth analysis, just as Mrs Wallin, in your question you are dating, because of this uncertainty and mistrust over this reform. It certainly has the scale, the historical scale, the number of changes, the division of work between hospitals, on the one hand, the responsibility that is passed from municipalities to provinces, the various channels of financing that are converted into state funding for regions, the basic and special levels of
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u78	Mr President! Tempting preparation for social welfare reform, as well as this cutting health care law, have led to some confusion and even panic on the municipal level, which is the kind of example of Western Ostrobothnia that is the tip of the iceberg. The focus of the Sote was initially on securing basic health care, but now it seems that the focus on costs is also on the transition to special care. Amongst other things, the surgeons have expressed concern that this planned customer voucher system for social welfare is threatening to jeopardise a high-quality on-call system if healthcare experts move from there to private services and, on the other hand, to fragment services, thus increasing costs, and quality is also at risk. I think we need more than just an appeal to Parliament, so I ask you:
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u79	Mr President! I share Mr Räsänen's concern that our debate on the division of work between hospitals, and perhaps also with that customer voucher, has been strongly instilling special care in a reform which, at the heart of the reform, and also of curbing the use of our common resources, is based on helping in time and on a low threshold for access to services, was a question of health care or social services. And with regard to the customer voucher that you mentioned the problems, it is for this reason that the government, in the proposal for freedom of choice which has now been submitted to the opinion, has strengthened the points in which the province has its own discretion and leeway. The basis for special care is still strong public production and, as has been the case until now, cuts can also be made by means of commitments or purchasing services, which is currently taking place in certain medical districts, for example, because of the falling-out of queues. And as far as local services are concerned, it is quite clear that certain changes in its service network are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u80	Mr President! That news from the West North that health care was outsourced was really sad news. It goes against everything that we government parties want to do in the reform of social welfare and health care. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u81	Mr President! The question raised by Mr Sarkomaa is correct in that this reform, which we have jointly decided to implement nationally in the services and which all parties have actually been doing at different stages, concerns only the public sector of 200,000 workers. One part of the uncertainty about the change is certainly the personal and justified concern of the employee about his own job, salary, future supervisor or job. After all, there was also an argument about jobs and regional life force in the discussion in the Western Ostrobothnia region. That is why I think it is very important and I have informed all social change managers in all 18 regions that it is necessary to involve staff in the reform. It is not enough to have a trade union movement in the preparatory sub-groups. This should also be the case, but the change will take place in the workplace, in hospitals, in different housing units for the elderly, in housing services for the disabled, in social services and in health care,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u82	Mr President! We were making the mess where we needed to speed up access to treatment and streamline the service chains. On the other hand, we have not been doing this mess, where it now seems that the whole aim of the reform is to market public social and health care services. This is also reflected in the way these private business operators operate now during this transition period. As far as the Western Ostrobothnia solution is concerned, this restructuring on the side of special medical care was exploited, but these private service providers throughout the country are also taking over the sector because local government investments are currently frozen. But I would like to repeat my question to Minister Saarikko: if you see the regional monopolies of companies as a problem in Meri-Lap, why are you advocating a social model that threatens to import them into the country as a whole for basic health care services?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u83	Mr President! Freedom of choice, which, as it were, creates clear frameworks for multi-production, i.e. the inclusion of different service providers in social welfare, is much more sustainable than the uncontrolled development that is now being done in certain areas by means of special care. The Government's draft Act on Freedom of Choice does not imply that all special care in certain areas would fall into the hands of one service provider.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u86	Next question, Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u87	Mr President, ärade talman! Nya arbetsplatser skapas valdigt långt i de små och medelstora företagen, och många av dessa är famileföretag.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u88	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, the government has already reduced inheritance tax and gift tax, especially in the event of generational change, and in that respect the record of the Government Programme and what was originally decided has been realised. In general terms, it could be estimated that, firstly, there has been a reduction in taxes on generational exchanges, but also elements have been introduced to make the organisation and making of generational exchanges more affordable and sensible, and that is really important because there are tens of thousands of companies in a generational change situation. We must help them beyond this generation change and thereby secure the survival of businesses and the jobs they have in these companies. It is the right thing to do — the government has already acted in accordance with its programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u89	I'll ask you to report if you have any further questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u90	Mr President! The abolition of inheritance tax and gift tax on the generation of companies would be an important first step, but the debate still needs to be broadened. When I was working in the legal department of the bank, I saw how inheritance tax causes problems specifically for employees with low and middle income who, for example, collect the parent’s dwelling — an apartment for which all taxes relating to the acquisition have already been paid once. In the RKP, we believe that, in a little longer term, inheritance and gift taxation should be replaced by an income tax, as was done in Sweden under the leadership of the Social Democrats. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, should Finland give up inheritance tax and gift tax in the longer term, moving on to the Swedish and Norwegian model, or do you think that our current system is justified?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u91	Mr President! Then let's leave the election programmes for another debate. The government has worked to reduce inheritance tax, gift tax, so that the generation changes of companies are now easier than when the government started. We have also invested in reducing the tax burden on work and enterprise and, at the very least, keeping it at the current level. This is important, and the whole point is that we are doing a policy that is entrepreneurial-friendly, so that entrepreneurship pays off, so that employment pays off, so that there is economic growth and jobs in Finland. This is an important issue for us, an essential part of the policy of this government, that of the enterprise policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u92	Mr President! In the past, the True Finns asked about the model of housing billing — housing expenses — that related to this question. We asked about taxation in the case of large foundations and corporations of general interest. As far as housing costs are concerned, there seemed to be no defendant, and in connection with taxation we received an answer that there is no wallpaper yet. A year ago, I asked Minister Orpo about these dividends from associations of general interest, and that was when the work was in progress. Can I get an answer as to whether we can now really look for quick means of spending when those surgeries are successful so quickly? I believe that the Prime Minister will be able to answer whether our model of housing billing can be introduced. I found it extremely offensive that our question was not even answered, but that the debate was immediately closed. Please, in future you, Prime Minister, will be able to answer all the questions at least something.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u93	Mr President! I would like to say again that Mr Tiilikainen, the Minister for Housing, is not here and I do not know your model of this desire for housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u99	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 3/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate begins: Mr Lapintie, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u100	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the electoral law so that persons permanently residing abroad and other persons temporarily residing or staying abroad during the elections would have the right to vote in general elections by letter from abroad. The reason for the government's proposal is that the introduction of a letter vote would significantly improve the ability of many Finns living abroad and other persons entitled to vote. The introduction of a letter vote would not remove the possibility of voting in advance abroad under the law in the delegations and their offices provided for by the Government Decree. A person entitled to vote abroad would therefore be free to decide whether to vote in elections by letter or by going to an advance polling station. In practice, this system would be implemented in such a way as to add a provision for a new voting procedure, a letter vote. Persons entitled to vote who do not have a municipality of residence in Finland and other persons entitled to vote who reside or reside abroad throughout the advance voting period and election day may vote by letter from abroad. As such, this proposal may seem small and limited, but nevertheless the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its report, considers that this change is of great importance in principle and, in particular, because it may have an impact on the confidentiality of the elections. Election secrecy is well-established in all elections, and the electoral law provides for a number of measures to safeguard the confidentiality of elections. Elections are important not only as a right for the electorate, but also as an interest in the state in bringing forward in elections the right will of the people, independent of pressure. The practical implementation of the election is now a major responsibility of the election authority. In this new vote of letters, the election authority will not be present at the vote and will therefore not be able to monitor the vote. Even in the government's proposal, it is estimated that there may be different risks in the vote, such as pressure on the voter, showing a vote to another person or making a vote instead of another person. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers these risks to be worthy of consideration and wishes to emphasise in this report the central importance of electoral secrecy. However, in this context, in the government proposal, it is proposed to add to the regulation, which must be considered relevant, in order to maintain the secrecy of the elections and to prevent inappropriate influence. These provisions are as follows: In the event of a vote, there must be two external persons who, by signing the letter of referral, prove that the vote has taken place in accordance with the secrecy of the election and the freedom to vote. This is appropriate for the protection of electoral secrecy, even though the procedure does not guarantee the same level of electoral secrecy as voting at the polling station. Those who vote abroad still have the opportunity to choose between voting at the advance polling station and voting by letter. The technical difficulty of voting as such, such as the remote location of the nearest polling station, is one of the main reasons for the low turnout of non-residents. It is estimated that the vote will significantly facilitate the voting of those persons residing and residing abroad who wish to vote in the general elections in Finland but who have a long journey to the nearest diplomatic mission as an advance polling station. This proposal would therefore contribute to the effective exercise of the rights of election and participation of the persons concerned. The vote on letters of non-residents and residents is widely used in countries with similar legal systems to Finland. The vote by letter can therefore be regarded as a universally accepted and widely used voting procedure and the risks involved are not generally considered to be an obstacle to the use of the vote by letter. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs attaches importance to the objective of the draft law, which is linked to the promotion of electoral and participatory rights, and to the fact that the possibility of a vote by letter would improve the equal status of non-residents or residents as users of voting rights. The risks associated with maintaining the status quo do not arise in such a way as to prevent the proposed regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers it necessary and appropriate for the government's proposal to be submitted for approval. However, the committee considers it important that the vote by letter should be monitored and evaluated and that this should be assessed in particular from the point of view of election secrecy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The turnout in voting, the turnout in voting, is something that I believe every Member of Parliament, but also every Finn, must be concerned about and concerned about, and that also applies to voting in Finland. I personally hope that voting will be made easier. I have, in time, supported the electronic vote, even the internet vote, but with recent events, I have changed my view of this so far-reaching facilitation, and I am not currently in favour of electronic voting, nor of voting on the Internet. I have sometimes spoken about them in the Chamber, and I disagreed with them at the time, and now I raise my hands and say that I have been wrong then and the world has changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u104	Mr President! I will immediately reply to Mrs Heinos that the only requirement for these witnesses, who have to prove that the secret of the election has been observed, is that they are persons of 18 years of age. They do not need to be Finnish citizens, nor are they entitled to vote in Finland. The only exclusion is that neither the spouse, child or parent of the voter nor the candidate in the elections in question, his or her spouse, children, siblings or parents can witness.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u107	Mr. Speaker! Mr Heinonen's excellent speech as such had been given some of those strange features. I now wonder whether Mr Heinonen disagrees with the timing of the regional elections, as did the National Finance Minister Petteri Orpo, who has, at least until now, chaired the Coalition Party, believed that the regional elections would be held in October 2018 and that the Council of Europe, the European Union and not even Donald Trump would prevent it. I feel funny. As far as I am concerned, I agree with Mr Heinonen that the European elections would make sense for Finnish democracy and for Finnish parties and party democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u110	President! Mr Heinonen was right to stir up the anthill when he spoke about these elections. Personally, I am genuinely concerned if regional elections are scheduled to take place in October 18. When these are new elections and people are uncertain about what is actually being chosen, these may become a travesty of representative democracy because of the low turnout.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u113	Mr President! I understand that when the regional elections were agreed until October 2018, the timetable was such that the legislation would be ready, as recommended by the Council of Europe, six months before. Now it seems that the legislation will not be adopted that way. I ask Mr Kurvis: do you not want to follow the recommendation of the Council of Europe or do you want to? If the legislation is not completed six months before that agreed regional election day, will you, Mr Kurvinen, be prepared to move the regional elections forward, or will it be the case that there is no need to respect such collective agreements in the area of power policy? In Finland, however, we generally criticise and monitor closely what happens in elections in other countries. One of the fundamental questions is that those who go to the elections will stand as candidates, and the citizens must also be aware of this six months before,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u114	Mr President! We may be a little far from having a letter vote, but it is still a question of election theory, and this is a good thing to talk through. I agree with what Mr Heinonen has raised in his speech and others have raised here, so we should seriously continue to think about what would be best for democracy. Generally speaking, it is worth listening to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, and I hope that this will also be the case with regard to regional elections. And when it comes to the timing of the parliamentary elections and the European elections, I understand that the party secretaries have also been involved in this debate and attempts have been made to establish some kind of agreement between the parties, but I do not know that this has happened in the end, in other words that agreement has not been reached. I would like all of us now to pass on the message to our parties that if and when there are no technical obstacles to, for example, the unification of parliamentary elections and European elections, it would only be a simple matter of urbanity to do so. That would certainly be clearer for the voters and also more sensible for politicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u115	Mr President! I still am amazed at this state of confusion in the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party. I do not know whether this will have to be discussed yet again between the leadership of our good government partners and the leadership of the parliamentary groups, when it seems that even experienced representatives have some confusion. At least I did not know that the Coalition Party is now of the opinion that no regional elections would be held in October 2018, and yes, it must take these recommendations of the Council of Europe very seriously. Let us see how we proceed with the revision of the Act on Freedom of Choice and then how we proceed with this legislative package in the spring. In my opinion, all three good government parties have agreed that the elections will take place in October 2018. There are strong reasons for holding the elections as early as possible, as this will enable the regional councillors elected by the people to participate in the process of completing their preparations. Otherwise, it's the preparation of a civil servant, and at the moment it's there.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u116	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing that there is a debate on this subject too, even though we all know that this is not a matter for us to decide on. But, as Mrs Parviainen has said here, it is probably good that we can send a message to our own parties and that the party secretaries will then negotiate this. I fully agree that, especially when it comes to the parliamentary elections and the European elections, it would make sense to combine them. The turnout in the European elections has remained low, and we would certainly be able to increase that interest in the vote. As far as the regional elections are concerned, surely the priority for all is now that we get those laws here in Parliament and approved here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u119	Mr President! As such, any action to increase the turnout of Finnish citizens would be good, as the largest party in the parliamentary elections and the Prime Minister's party are the sleeping party. However, I do not believe that this enthusiasm will increase any such pecking about the time of the elections for political purposes. This debate here is based on the fact that certain parties have power political interests to push through administrative reforms in our country. I wonder how it can still be said here that we do not decide when these elections will take place. Who's gonna decide that if it's not the parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u120	Mr Heinonen, who has also started the debate, followed by a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u121	Mr President! As much as the Vice-President of the Centre, Mr Kurvinen, tells us that Mr Heinonen is as large as the Coalition Party, this is not the case, but I am speaking in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u124	And now we return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u125	Mr President! The government is proposing changes of power in order to facilitate voting abroad, which in itself is a worthy and important goal, but I still have to worry about keeping the secret of the election. There was already a debate on these people involved in the signing procedures and whether they have any responsibilities for their actions, as is currently the case with the Electoral Commission, to check their identity and to ensure that it is the voters themselves who put their vote in the envelope. However, the change to this current practice is very important in principle. In spite of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I remain concerned about this issue, and I am also well aware that this is a very limited number of voters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u126	Mr President! The possibility for permanent residents and temporary residents to vote more flexibly is welcome, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job of taking into account in its report the fact that we can manage this issue in the most secure and practical way possible. Even the small steps towards democracy are good, although here, of course, at the level of principle, the step is a little bigger. I share Mr Mäkelä's concern about election secrecy. In my view, electoral secrecy is a question of scale that should be taken very seriously in all situations, and in this case too, questions arise as to who these outside witnesses, who will then witness the voting situation, then in practice are and who they can represent. I am not quite sure whether this is in any way an impeccable model, but I am counting on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to assess that they have nevertheless considered that the risks of this model presented are lower than those of the benefits. I am therefore able to live well with this change, and I hope it will be positive. Generally speaking, however, at the moment, we have a real risk that a different kind of hybrid influence, for example, can be carried out in elections, and yes, foreign Finns can also be the target of this kind of activity. It is also good to continue to monitor how this issue will materialise in practice and (a) how far the vote on letters will take place and (b) whether there will be some complications in the future. With reference to the previous speech by Mr Heinonen, I too am very critical of the online vote and the electronic vote. I have sometimes supported them, but the world has changed and shown that what can be hacked is certainly being hacked, and there is no risk to be taken with the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u127	President! There are good and worthwhile objectives in this way, which the chairman of the committee referred to there. We in the constitutional light have done a very careful job on this issue. This, as the chairman of the committee said, is a significant matter and a change, even if it appears to be a minor matter. It is precisely these issues that have been addressed here, which is to say the preservation of electoral secrecy, the risks involved, the possible pressure. On the basis of an expert's opinion in particular, the committee also held a debate on whether it would be wise for local authorities to limit themselves to this. Since local authorities, even in relatively large municipalities, have the same votes and draws, in such situations some foreign vote and abuse alters the election result. Mr Heinonen himself got a little lost when he compared the institutional vote and this vote abroad. However, the institutions have election officials acting on official responsibility, so that this is not the same thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u128	Mr President! This amendment to the electoral law is very necessary, and I know that it is also hoped that those who are permanently resident abroad and those who live or stay temporarily during the elections will also have the right to vote by letter. These polling stations are not very close in all places, but they are an important part of democracy, and it is important that the vote can take place where we are, especially if longer periods are spent abroad. The advance voting practice used in Finland has already increased the possibility of voting more widely than just one day, and it has been found that it has also been used to a great extent. Today, it seems that many want to give their voice during the advance vote at the time when it suits them. In that sense, I am very much in favour of these various more flexible ways of dealing with this civic responsibility. With regard to the online vote, I myself am somewhat different from the previous speeches here. I am in favour of further development and clarification of the online vote. I am in favour of it being part of the development of e-services, what our society also needs. Tax returns can be made online at the moment, but otherwise our citizens' services are still a little bit in their infancy. E-services, whether in the form of a vote or otherwise, would be today and would make it easier for many, in such a big country, to engage in daily activities with society and different authorities. Then there is the question of the unification of the elections. I also believe that it would have been worthwhile to combine the regional elections, the parliamentary elections and the European elections. But now that we're in this situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u129	Mr President! This whole letter voting thing is so great, I came all the way out of this toilet to talk. When I lived in England for eight years in the 1990s, I always asked my visiting friends from Finland to bring with them Reissumies, Sinappia in Turku and Sini in HK. It was not only that I liked their taste, but that they somehow appealed to me as a Finnish — it involved such pride and identity. A backpacker, mustard and jogging sausage are Finnish flavours, and few can appreciate them with the same love as a Finnish who lives abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u133	Mr. Speaker! Today, here in Parliament, we are dealing with the amendment of the electoral law. A new way of taking a stand and choosing decision-makers at local, national and European level will be introduced into the electoral law and indeed into the entire Finnish electoral system and will exercise the universal and equal right of vote that is so valuable to all of us. A new system of voting by letter will be created in Finland, but this is only possible for Finnish voters residing abroad. As an actual member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have had the opportunity to be on the table and to present this report. We are on the basis of the stability, devotion, dignity and knowledge with which we address all the other issues, under the leadership of our chairman, Mrs Lapintie, who has produced this report. After all, the report is completely unimaginable and we propose that the vote on letters be taken forward, as the government's proposal has proposed and hoped for. This vote on letters has been considered and hoped for for a long time. Finns living abroad, Finns living abroad in particular, and their various interest groups and non-governmental organisations have been hoping for this opportunity to vote for letters for a long time. A very important factor in the vote on the letter is that the actual vote must, as it were, be secured by the labelling of two unimpeded witnesses. The vote on the letter is not a completely trouble-free new method of election. During the discussion of the Constitutional Committee and in the hearings of experts, we also received criticism of this vote on letters. It is certainly fair and transparent to say that, of course, this vote on letters carries certain risks in respect of the secrecy of elections, which is, of course, the very essence of the right to vote and to vote in elections. However, when we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made a full, ideal election secret and then the widest possible participation of Finnish citizens, the choice was quite clear. We clearly stated that, however, the risks of endangering electoral secrecy are very low in the voting of letters by those living abroad, and, on the other hand, there is a particularly strong argument that we should have better opportunities for more Finns living abroad to take part in our elections and thereby take a stand on matters of their own country and country. Hopefully, this opportunity to vote more easily from abroad would also be able to maintain those strong relationships and opportunities, so that these often well-informed and hard-working Finnish citizens or their loved ones would return to Finland somewhere to build our society. It is always possible to say — when there are hundreds of different postal systems in the world and when the mail is left to carry its own voice — what the risks are in the delivery of mail. But on the other hand, when we think about the problems that even our own home country has had with the delivery of mail, it can be said that the problems that can be associated with the delivery of mail are not insurmountable, because even in Finland, our own national advance votes — which are very popular — are moving through the mail, and this, of course, also involves certain theoretical risks. In addition, a person living abroad who decides to use a letter vote will also consider for himself whether there is a risk that the mail of his country of residence will be delivered by his own voice. Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here today about making it much easier to exercise the right to vote. Many Finns wonder that when we do our banking on the Internet, we take care of our benefits on the Internet and other online transactions, so can we not also use their voice online there? I myself have had a very pleasant and interesting task of chairing the parliamentary follow-up group on online voting in 2017. We have been monitoring the progress of the Government's online voting report, and that report will now become ready material in November. The vote on the Internet suddenly seems like a terrible technical issue, but when we were able to learn about this subject in the parliamentary, joint follow-up group of all the parliamentary groups, we said that it was anything but technology. The way in which we vote is ultimately about whether Finnish elections are reliable and whether all political movements and all Finns can count on our elections being free and the results are correct. Currently, there are problems and risks associated with the online vote that are likely to be insurmountable with current technology. A lot is said about hacking and agents of foreign powers, but I personally would say that there are far more common problems that are troubling the online vote. Especially in local elections, municipal elections and future regional elections, the seat of the delegate can be resolved with just a few votes. Then the risks of buying and selling votes or, in some way, putting pressure on their own family members to vote in a certain way are much greater in the local elections than in the presidential elections of the Republic which are about to take place. It is also very interesting that, at the moment, in the technologies of online voting, the possibility of carrying out an election audit is virtually lost, which is, in fact, a very big factor in our current physical paper vote, because there is a situation at the moment that if, in municipal elections, for example, a party or an electoral union suspects that the election result has been miscalculated, then it is possible that the central election board will be able to obtain the ballots and, for example, to carry out ten checks and, as if it were a fool, to find out what has been the result of secret and free elections. Losing the possibility of a check-up is quite a big thing, and that too must be dealt with in a very serious way. Mr President! I myself am generally very positive about science, development and progress, and I therefore do not want in any way forever to reject the possibility that we may not sometimes vote online, in some way, to vote electronically. I hope that we will actively monitor the development of technologies, and yes, voting and elections must also follow the change in the world. I would like us to consider in Finland that perhaps such municipal referendums as our legislation allows us to try online voting. We could then have experience of how it could work in our culture and in our voting rights. In addition, President, we are talking about such block technologies, completely new technologies, which are at the same time as being secure for hacking, but they still retain the integrity, when you could do inspection calculations. If at some point such technology is offered at a reasonable price, I do not think it is impossible for us to sometimes see online elections in Finland. At the moment, after some six months as chairman of this parliamentary monitoring group, I cannot recommend the introduction of an online vote in Finland, unfortunately, but let us now move on with these letters.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u134	Mr President! As a member of this parliamentary group on the Internet, I can confirm, to a large extent, Mr Kurvisen's statement just now. I would like to point out that the comparison of voting, the comparison of the online vote, the management of tax or banking matters, unfortunately, shows a slight lack of understanding of what these are. The management of tax matters or the management of banking matters must leave a mark on the systems of the bank or the Tax Administration, while voting for it must at some point be completely destroyed in order to preserve the secrecy of the election. This is the structural, fundamental difference in this matter. The problems of the online vote are by no means limited to this current cybersecurity and hacking theme, although they also have an impact on the evaluation of the vote in the present time. There are also other, structural, difficult or no problems that can be solved with regard to the confidentiality of elections and the reproducibility of the counting of votes. We must remember that we must be able to rely on the voting system under all circumstances, including internal or external emergency conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u135	Mr President! I very much welcome this possibility of a letter vote for Finnish citizens residing abroad. Now that I have quite often met Finnish expatriates, Finnish citizens who live permanently abroad, I often ask them if you have gone to vote, because of this political role of mine, and often have, sometimes have not. I believe, as has been said in this debate before, that voting is a civic duty that really binds itself to the society in which you are a member. It is, in fact, a pretty good indicator of how well it is in society, whether you are aware, whether you are following up on current issues, whether you trust the system's ability to deal with them, and that is why I think it is very important that, through this, expatriate Finns offer an even better chance to maintain a certain kind of connection, such a kind of origins to follow it in their own home country's social debate, political life and, as it were, to be an active citizen through it. In this regard, Mr Kurvinen described this consideration of the Constitutional Committee very well in relation to the secrecy of the elections and, on the other hand, as the right to vote for participation. I think it is very good that the idea of active citizenship has taken precedence here, and I really want to thank the committee for that. When I myself am a teacher of history and social studies, I have often wondered about this theme of active citizenship, and yes, even the slightest development in that direction will fundamentally strengthen democracy and democracy, and I believe that this will have small but positive effects in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u136	Mr President! This government proposal to amend the electoral law is, for the most part, a very good proposal. From the beginning, I myself have sometimes been skeptical, conservative when I am, about these voting opportunities for Finns living abroad, but after I discovered that I myself received votes for the Finns of Peruvian origin from very atypical places, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u137	Mr President! In fact, Mr Eerola provoked me here to take the floor, although I thought I would abstain. There have been good speeches here, both from the chairman of the committee who presented it, and from Mr Kivelä, who has just mentioned that, although there is a small issue, this is quite large and good and well thought out and certainly well thought out. It is very welcome that those who want to be linked to their own country, even if they live abroad, adhere to the Finnish rule when they are guaranteed the right to vote and it is possible to do so. It is good Finnish citizenship and keeps those people active. It's an election ad in its own way. Second, or was it the third thing? This has been accompanied by an online vote in this Chamber. Let us hope that at the latest this will throw those light soils on top of it, so that even in Finland, no kind of elections will consider the possibility of an online vote before it is as if it were carried out alone in the current electoral system under such controlled conditions. If we want to promote digitalisation and electronic voting, then the privacy of the person must be safeguarded in that event.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u138	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 9/2017 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u139	Mr President! This government proposal provides for a law on the National Register of Studies and Qualifications, which would replace certain other laws from registers, summarising registers, which is in principle a good and worthwhile objective. From the point of view of information flow, a smaller number of registers is a good thing, but of course putting pressure on the security and cyber security of the register. Now, however, in this committee report, I note that the committee has thoroughly studied this government proposal, its pain points, and has proposed a number of changes. There is a great deal of yellow emphasis on this report, and it raises the question of the level of the government's legislative drafting, especially since this proposal has also been pointed out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It would therefore be interesting to hear from the members of the committee whether this interpretation, made from paper, is correct: was this poor preparation the basis for these great changes and corrections?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u140	President! This bill is certainly most welcome. This will make things smoother, this will be rationalisation, more efficient use of new technologies, and will ask why this is only now. This could have been done earlier. What the previous speaker referred to: Indeed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had to deal with this information security and some timeliness and stability of the data contained in the register. I would not say yet that there is anything particularly dramatic about this. Yes, during this parliamentary term, during the last parliamentary term as well as in the past, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has sometimes put certain things behind us, and they have, of course, been taken into account. But the previous Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the fact that there are shortcomings and issues in the drafting of the law that need to be addressed, but this is not just a matter of time for this government but of a longer-term social issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u141	Mr President! A common knowledge base for basic education, upper secondary school education and vocational education is a sensible reform. Central electronic compilation of qualifications and qualifications enables more flexible use of data, e.g. in applying for education or in the identification and recognition of previously learned qualifications. Improving the flow of information between the various actors is one of the main benefits of the proposal. All in all, this is a reform to improve public authorities and a sensible use of digital opportunities. One of the key benefits of the reform is the possibility to disclose information to third parties. This opens up the possibility of creating tailor-made services for students, such as offering student discounts and applying for further studies and monitoring the progress of studies more effectively. But Mr Mäkelä's attention is justified, and yet it is important and noteworthy that the legal and information security of students should be ensured. That is particularly important. The system and individual security must be at a good level, and this needs to be given special attention when creating the system. The student's consent must always be asked in connection with the collection and use of information. However, from the point of view of the opposition, the reform of national records of studies and qualifications is a good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u142	Mr President! Indeed, there is a motion on the table that can be supported. It is important that we also get more and more digitised information on the education and training front, and it is very good that we will then have the knowledge of Finns and others who are able to use this information, which has been studied in the past. Here too, the committee has drawn attention to the fact that those who have studied before, before this change is made, could also have access to these numbers of learners, that is to say, their information being stored here. It is a good thing that these various papers and diplomas and others, which have been in written form and perhaps also easily destroyed, will then be in a safe place in the future, to be found. Of course, from the point of view of this development, when we have other education-related data than just these qualifications, such as vocational training licence cards — this licence card jungle, what is being spoken about — and when these permits are now being granted in a very fragmented way through different training providers and these are in a very manual form today, it would be good to have these kinds of license cards for different professions also digitised and also available in connection with such qualifications registers. This is something that needs to be developed, and this work is being done and clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u143	Mr President! Representative Elomaa raised a good point and told how good it is that such a register exists. Of course, care must be taken to ensure that there is privacy and the person's consent is required if such a register is to be disclosed to a third party. It must be strictly closed so that the person can only authorise such marketing in his or her case, because that is what the legislation requires at the moment. As far as register data is concerned, the Staff Registers Act defines the kind of register to be kept, and the law defines what information may be available there, but the disclosure of information is another matter. It is good that the data on qualifications can be collected, but I would now like to give a little sympathy for the Government's approach to vocational education and training in general in upper secondary education and the whole of this issue, that we are moving right into a knowledge-based Finnish education system, especially in secondary education, and how these old qualifications do not necessarily mean that the person's competence is at that level. At the moment, it is very important for us to take into account whether we continue to value qualifications only or whether we are in the present and value competence, rather than the basics of skills related to that profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u144	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There is therefore a legislative initiative on hospice care, and this bill therefore proposes to introduce a new law on hospice care. At the moment, we do not have a valid law on hospice care. We have other laws — we have health care law, we have a constitution and we have a law on patient status and justice — but we lack that law on hospice care ourselves. The hospice law is now written here as a bill, and it is now under discussion. This bill brings to the law the recommendations for hospice care drawn up by the National Advisory Board on Ethics in Health Care, ETENE, from 2003. In other words, hospice guidelines and guidelines have been drawn up in Finland in 2003 and have been those followed by municipalities — if not followed, these recommendations and guidelines have at least been taken as treatment paths. We all know that recommendations and guidelines are information management, and they are only recommendations. The law is the law in which society must be guided, and the law must be directed in the direction we see and see right. In other words, this hospice law would include the cornerstones of ethically good care, ensure good care for a dying patient and the patient’s right to choose a hospice. This bill, which I have tabled, would not provide for hospice treatment for persons under the age of 18, but would provide for this separately. These current hospice recommendations and plans play an important role in hospice care, and regulation of this hospice treatment is in different laws. According to the Constitution, no one should be treated in a way that violates human dignity. The public authorities must safeguard fundamental rights and human rights. In addition, there is a prohibition of discrimination in the Constitution. The Health Care Act, on the other hand, obliges the municipality to carry out health care that is responsible for the organisation of the municipality. The law on the status and rights of the patient regulates the right to good health and medical care and the related treatment and access to care. So all the laws I have mentioned include good treatment, and we can of course say that it also includes hospice, but the truth is different many times. There are various conditions for good hospice care. For example, the decision to start hospice should be taken in agreement with the patient. Hospice should relieve suffering and increase well-being. Poor treatment of symptoms and other suffering often also reduces the patient’s chances of autonomous decision-making. The patient should also have access to psychological and spiritual support, which would be part of the capacity of the hospice services. The patient should be allowed to die in a place as safe as possible and prepare to die in peace without fear and concern for the survival of his loved ones. Hospice care also includes other important conditions: in the welfare state, hospice care should be a subjective right, a sufficient number of hospice facilities currently dependent on softer standards should be registered in the law, and the professional competence of hospice staff should also be ensured. All these conditions are very timely now, especially as a result of the reform of social security. They are very important because, together with these soft instruments, they are not enough to secure good hospice care for everyone who needs it. There are variations in the organisation and competence of hospice care across Finland, and there are also more people who need hospice care than hospice facilities. In addition, the deterioration of the economic resources of health care and general social inequalities may jeopardise the fair availability of care. For this reason too, to correct the current situation, we need a law that defines these conditions for good care for hospice care, and this hospice care law would ensure the availability of good care for everyone who needs hospice care throughout Finland. It would be desirable for this law to enter into force as soon as possible. Mr President! This hospice law is therefore also very important for us in Parliament to be talking about euthanasia in the form of a citizens' initiative. I have taken part in this public consultation — the initiative is currently in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — and also in the public consultation there was a very strong feeling of fear and pain and the idea that what should happen when there is a fatal illness and no treatment for it and the time is running out. Pain relief is one thing that is not talked about enough in Finland, or if it is spoken of, it is said that there is medication for every pain, but this is not the case. There is pain, there is disease, there is cancer pain, which even the strongest medicines do not help. Then they say we have a sedation. Sedation means that at the worst point when the patient’s condition is being eased, the patient is put to sleep — not to die of it, but to lower the level of consciousness so that the patient feels no pain. But there is such pain that despite sedation a person feels it and a person wakes up. So these are the issues that we in Finland need to be able to discuss openly and reflect on how we can make things easier for people around Finland, and it is precisely the equality of good hospice care from the south to the north that is very important, as well as the number of hospice places. In my opinion, no person should die in an emergency room, not behind the servers or in a place like this, but should be a hospice home, be a good place for care and professional skills, as well as then training those nurses to be able to carry out good hospice care. We have a lot of development of palliative care in Finland, and the government has allocated EUR 1 million in the budget to updating and equalising the hospice criteria, and that is a very good thing, but we basic Finns see that we still need other additional measures. This bill on hospice care has also progressed to our alternative budget, it is also there. We are proposing that we proceed immediately with the preparation of the law. This bill I have taken is only brutal — I admit it — because there is no law on hospice care, the law has had to be written from start to finish. But the motion is that as soon as possible the preparation of the law will begin and bring this good human right, subjective law, to the level of the law. I wish for a good debate here today, and I thank you all for being here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u146	Mr President! Mr Juvonen is on an important point in his bill, and I too had the opportunity to sign the initiative. I do not understand how, in 14 years, governments have failed to bring about a change in the way in which the recommendations on hospice care drawn up by the National Advisory Board on Ethics in Health Care in 2003 were brought to the legal level. I do not understand how this issue could have been so new in 2003 that such a debate has not taken place for decades or even longer, because the suffering and death of people is a human matter and should be able to respond to it. There has been enough talk, but there is a lack of action on this issue. However, with the ageing of the population and the development of medicine, hospice care is constantly facing more and more challenges that are necessary in any case, no matter what happens to this euthanasia citizens' initiative in the debate. These are two different things: hospice treatment is needed anyway. Now is the time to correct the situation so that hospice treatment reaches the level of the law and its level becomes high and even throughout the country. I hope that the progress of this law in Parliament will not become a problem for any party.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u147	Mr President! Hospice is an important topic and it is a good idea to discuss it. It is good that such a bill has been taken, and Mrs Juvonen gave a comprehensive introduction to why such a law might be needed in Finland. As Mr Mäkelä said, no matter what happens to this euthanasia-citizen initiative and its solution, we need to make this hospice situation in Finland better and thus ensure that people have the right to a good death in all situations, in addition to a good life. Death is something that we are happy to sweep into the background, but it will come to each of us, one way or another, many times in our lives and then at the latest in our own case one day. If we do one of these... Well, maybe it is good to discuss euthanasia separately, it is not directly related to this, but if we talk about hospice treatment in general, there are clear shortcomings in Finland that, for example, there is not as much teaching in palliative care as there should be, and when we talk about how we can also train and further train healthcare professionals to respond to the need for hospice care, I believe that more could be done here in Finland. In addition, when talking about the requirements of hospice care, different circumstances, it is good to remember that hospice care is carried out in very different environments, depending on the individual’s requirements for hospice care. For example, there are certain things that can be done at local level, but then we go into a very demanding special responsibility when we go into so-called more difficult treatment issues. Generally speaking, I would very much like us, during this reign, no matter who is in the government and who is in the opposition, to achieve some improvement in the current situation — an improvement that is more than just recommendations. We need high-quality hospice treatment that is binding on Finland, which is guaranteed for everyone,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u148	President! As the first signatory to this House, I have signed an extremely important bill, and we can hope for the greatest success in this initiative. Of course, unfortunately, we know the operating principles of this house and the fact that even an initiative signed by more than a hundred representatives does not seem to be moving forward. But hopefully with this initiative something very important will move forward. The approach to death reflects the cultural level of society and culture. We often talk about the Middle Ages in the dark in the Middle Ages and in a very negative tone, but at least we can learn from the people of that time the art of the Ars Moriend, or training to die. In the world of that time, especially with the plague, death was present. Like Congressman O.-P. Parviainen has just said that we live in a culture where death is wanted to be swept under the carpet from disturbing the nice 'have fun'. Just as a dignified life of human dignity is a human right for everyone, so it is equally a valuable death, and therefore the possibility of hospice treatment must be subjective for everyone who needs it. As Mrs Juvone said in her excellent introductory speech, hospice treatment is not just pain relief or proper medication. In that sense, Finland is lagging behind other countries in hospice care in many ways, that perhaps Finland is focusing too much on pain relief, medication and such preparation for death and is not sufficiently understood to face and consider dying issues. Therefore, it would be of the utmost importance to have the opportunity to go through life’s questions, life lived, relationship with fellow humans, to make an account in the presence and surrounded by knowledgeable people, an account for their lives, and, quite understandably, questions of eternity are also well on the surface at that point. I have followed the situation of Finnish hospice care closely through my spouse. My spouse has been working on hospice for varying lengths. Hospice care is also extremely demanding for staff, and continuous training, job guidance and other support measures are needed. In this way, it can be said that nurses usually work in such a way that a person is rehabilitated and returned to civilian life, whether it is working life or what, but, instead, hospice treatment is mainly concerned with the question that this person may not only return but is preparing for the last trip, and hospice, if well implemented, will enable it to be carried out in a dignified way.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u149	Mr President! We have also received a citizens' initiative on euthanasia, as a few speakers have said today. Before the elections, even before, I publicly declared that I was very strongly in favour of euthanasia, but now I am, at least in part, about to turn my coat around. Mr Juvonen's initiative, which is now also part of the alternative budget for Finns, is so good that if it comes into force as it stands, the debate on euthanasia can at least be forgotten in part. Finland really needs the law on hospice care. Finland needs legislation on hospice care with definitions of what is ethically good care. These existing guidelines are not enough. Similarly, with this legislation, the shortcomings in education — as has been said here, including those relating to palliative care, for example — would be forced to be remedied.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u150	Mr President! In 2010, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health drew up the hospice recommendations, the official ones, and they were then introduced into municipalities, cities and joint municipal authorities, and it was hoped that each place would have its own guidelines, which is the hospice path then at the local level. Then, for a while, the matter was clarified and examined and it was found that the recommendations had not really been taken to the municipal level, but that there were significant shortcomings, and that is where this matter has now, in a sense, gone so far that different measures have been taken here in Parliament as well. My own path in this hospice development work has certainly become familiar through my own work when I have worked as a nurse for a long time, but also during the 2011 parliamentary term there have been a lot of written questions, policy initiatives and incentives for Parliament and the government to take this hospice care forward on their own initiative, and that is why it has been a great thing that the million people there have been promised to develop hospice care, but, as has already been mentioned here, it is certainly not enough. In other words, this bill proposes the right to good and human treatment, patient autonomy, hospice decision and treatment plan, continuity of treatment, readiness of the hospice units, the patient's right to choose a hospice place. And for those who are not eligible to decide on their treatment, the immediate family of hospice patients will also be taken into account here so that special attention must be paid to them as hospice patients who are unable to express their own will or decide on their own treatment. I would also like to highlight in this debate: Current treatment recommendations, which are very important and are monitored and treated according to their instructions. We have very good guidelines on the treatment of a dying patient. In fact, I've always told people that you should read them. I have also spoken to students and nursing colleagues in the past that if you want to know anything about it, please read: Well, go with the treatment recommendations, because they're telling the truth about what's coming up on that hospice path and the dying patient's path. But we have a very serious problem in Finland when we are completely lacking in hospice guidelines, recommendations, Fair Care recommendations, for paediatrics, and I also find this a very shocking flaw in Finland. This came out strongly this year when we were able to read this Eino boy's story out of the public eye. He had a long hospice, he was a little boy, and then his own father came out and told the story of Eino-boy, which also brought up this euthanasia debate as well as the lack of children's hospice guidelines, recommendations, from Finland. I have also made an initiative for action and I encourage it to be taken forward, and I have now heard — and this was evident there in the public consultation on the euthanasia initiative — that there are still no such recommendations for children. It has fallen to the fact that there has not been enough time to prepare it, and I am sure there has also been some lack of expertise there, but I really hope that the government will also take this matter forward and then see to it that the Oikeushoito recommendations are also up-to-date. In my opinion, hospice treatment is such a thing, as you said here, Olli-Son Parviainen, very well that we are not talking about these things and we are not able to prepare for these things, but at some point we must. It usually follows the path and path of its next of kin, and then you realize and your eyes open. And so do we politicians, all of us, age and we all, sooner or later, end this political career here and go back to our everyday lives and then see what are the fruits of our political work there and what we face. We should make such things and decisions that it is good for citizens to have, and such effectiveness to seek. So this would be very important. We also have this issue of equality, which we talk about every day in Parliament: whatever is the case, it is always argued that there should be equal services and access to people. In other words, if someone is such a subject that everyone must then get a very good treatment, and that is the promise of service we were talking about today in Question Time, and I believe that this hospice theme is at the heart of the swamps. We don't know what that mess is. We have different operating units, we have 24-hour care, we have care homes, where there is not necessarily a readiness or understanding or knowledge or knowledge of what happens when a hospice situation occurs and not even professionally trained staff. It is terribly important that when we have quality recommendations, which defines the dimensions of the carer at the moment, a certain number, and when the work of the carer is that of immediate customer work, then who actually does the job and who has the right to give the medicine and so on, because the right to give the medicine does not belong to everyone. This is a very sensitive subject, and many of these are discussed with caution because, as here today, this brings us a bit like a devout mood, and we talk calmly, and this quiets us down. In my opinion, the euthanasia initiative is a good one. It's good that we have it in the conversation, and as the nurse herself, when the nurse's job is always to relieve the pain, the nurse's job is to put a Band-Aid where the pain is, whatever it is, try to be jovial and empathetic, sympathetic and see the person in the middle. But the fact that the hospice law comes on paper does not correct all the problems. Yes, we still need university level development and research and improving medical skills and that if someone told me, professor, that in a year's time I will find such a medicine, that it will certainly work on that last pain, then it would be a great thing, because then we also have those cases that even if you are allergic to morphine or opioids, you will never be able to get such drugs in these situations, i.e. at that moment there will be a big question mark on how this kind of human pain relief and hospice will be arranged. These are big questions. These are bigger questions than life, and when a person is in that situation, surely one wonders how we treat lives, how we have mercy, and in what way we do everything to be painless — great things. But let us talk about this hospice, and it is good that this is supported here. I thank you all for taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u151	Mr President! To begin with, I warmly support the Hospice Care Act presented by Mr Juvonen. It considers that the patient has the right to choose the hospice place, it would also be the right to receive good care when you are dying, which means support and security without pain and fear when life is about to end. These rights should belong to everyone, and whether you like it or not, everyone is at some point in life where it ends. The citizens' initiative on euthanasia also comes to this Chamber and to this Parliament and, at least at the moment, I am not personally in favour of euthanasia. My experience as a nurse is that the hospice law should definitely be. With dying patients when you have done some work, the final step is really important and the assurance that there will be no pain and fear. We have Meri-Karina Kakskerra in Turku, and there is also a hospice. We go there for concerts a couple of times a year, there's a big concert there, and there's family and then there's patients, customers. And what do I think of the experience when I've been there for someone close to me? It's very important to keep the staff up at the hospice.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u152	Mr President! Still an excellent debate, thanks to colleagues. Fortunately, Finland already has good hospice care in several places. The challenge is that this is not the case in the whole country and practices can vary, and when we go to education and further education and to meet death and death in general, we certainly still have a lot to do. It is well-founded here why such a law is needed. I was specifically addressed by Mr Juvonen when we talk about hospice care — and, of course, in general, hospice care, but as the father of small children, I have had a very difficult time dealing with those situations when I read about the death of a young child and the feelings associated with it. I don't know what it feels like, but it must be something so massive in an individual's life that society must offer absolutely, in all situations, all possible support so that the death of a child can be arranged as humanely as all our civilizations and technology and everything we can do, only at all possible. I think it is absolutely minimal that we get decent and effective recommendations for children so that no child will suffer. From this point of view, it is good to continue that we need recommendations for everyone as well, and because the recommendations are not enough — and this has clearly happened in Finland in some respects too — then we need a law, and as legislators it is our job to legislate. If, for political reasons, the law on hospice care is not to be laid down this period, then it must be absolutely absolute in one way or another for the next government programme. But I hope that the government will also have the understanding to review its programme when new openings come, no matter where they come from.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u153	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank Mrs Juvo for the excellent and excellent speeches she has made and, above all, for the good work she has done in promoting hospice care in Finland, also by means of legislation and, therefore, this bill. Of course, effective and successful hospice care is very important not only for the person being treated and suffering, but also for his family and all the others close to him. Of course, it is also important for the medical staff that they receive all the necessary training to meet the inevitable death. In addition to alleviating physical suffering, mental and psychological support play a very important role in the final stages of individual life. Each person is a unique individual and deserves a dignified death regardless of his social status when medical means are exhausted. The prospect of a dignified death tells us something about the state of society and, of course, also provides the opportunity for the loved ones to face their grief, which is always inevitable and heavy, but even a little more humane when hospice treatment is available. I therefore hope that the bill drafted by Mr Juvonen will be properly dealt with in committee, and, of course, I also hope that the Act on hospice care will be implemented in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u154	Mr President! The theme of hospice arose a couple of years ago when the church organized a gathering of solidarity for the cause, where President Sauli Niinistö, among others, was one of the protectors. One of the things that was raised during the solidarity gathering was to raise funds for improving skills, education and other important issues of this kind. It is true that knowledge already exists and education is being organised, which means that knowledge is also available in the care sector, but there is always a need for more and more development, as in the medical field. I call on all municipal decision-makers, there are a lot of us here in Parliament, to take to their own cities and local municipalities as a council initiative, among other things, proposals for setting up hospice services and other things that will improve the local hospice care in their own region. We have recently opened a rehabilitation hospital in Espoo, for example — I am myself from there — and there is a separate hospice unit, which was obtained there with long work. We used to have a little resource-efficient in the Polish forest, but a lot of work was done, there were many different initiatives and a lot of discussion, and it ultimately led to the adoption of hospice recommendations, guidelines and then this unit in Espoo. It is very important that this is the case. In spring, I organised an event in the Small Parliament where hospice care was also discussed, and there was a good crowd there and people were allowed to ask questions themselves. At the end I asked you what you would like from your own treatment, and there was Juha Hänninen of Terhokoti then answering questions. Yes, it was the good, calm, warm treatment and painlessness and the listening and receiving of it mental support and help. It was man’s wish, and that is what we are doing, and the Finns of Peru are taking this bill forward. Thank you all for a good conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u155	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u156	Mr President! Yesterday we heard the shadow budgets of the Greens and other opposition groups, the parts of which are obviously being dealt with here. The focus of this green alternative budget, at least from my point of view, was to make work and mobility more difficult and to put people's lives down. Today, then, we are dealing with a proposal which distributes these fruits of demention in the form of a tax deduction. Without taking a stand as to whether these amounts of the basic reduction in the euro are correct or good, it is remarkable whether there would have been no other use for that money than a few hundred euros reduction per taxpayer. It is now the case that municipalities, however, provide basic services that are important to people, and cutting the basic services through the reduction of the tax base is primarily away from the disadvantaged who use them. And then again, if this reduction were to be fully compensated for by state transfers to municipalities, it would have to be made up of other cuts by the size of these reductions — in the Greens' own alternative budget, it would be up to EUR 260 million for this proposal. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u157	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 19/2017 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on 10 November 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u158	Mr President! In this case, it is a citizens' initiative to stop changing the clocks during the summer. Summer time is provided for in an EU directive so that a single Member State of the European Union cannot decide independently. Personally, I am in favour of this citizens' initiative, and I very much hope that this issue will also be taken forward by the EU's decision-making bodies, so that all EU countries would agree that this constant shift of clocks, in my opinion unnecessary, can be stopped and moved back and forth at a time of so-called normality. This report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is unanimous and, when it was discussed in committee, expert opinions made it very clear that there are disadvantages rather than benefits from this shift of clocks. It is harmful to humans, it is harmful to animals — who do not look at the clocks and how they work — and it is harmful in many ways. When this was discussed earlier in this House, in Parliament in plenary, at least then all the Members of Parliament agreed with this report, and Minister Berner, with credit, also promised that when he meets his colleagues and is in discussions, he will be in the EU taking this matter forward. It would also be important that our Finnish meps always take the matter forward together at the tables where they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u159	Congressman Myllykoski, he's gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u160	Mr President! — Myllykoski was just like behind the cabinet. Mr President! Mr Torniainen has just described those sentiments well in this Chamber when this was the first time that we discussed this before the suspension. The committee was unanimous in its own view and gave a strong impetus to this in the light of the requirement that the Government take action throughout the EU. Since I was not involved in the crucial debate, I would like to point out here that Finland itself must start to promote the abolition of clock movements in Finland. Personally, I believe and pretend to read, in the form of statements by some experts, that now, after the next time we move on to summer time, we should stop moving the clocks. So I would see that moving the clock permanently to what is known as summer time would be the best solution for all. It is indeed the case that there has been a lot of signals from the livestock farms regarding this citizens' initiative about how much it causes problems with normal routines. And it should not be forgotten that we have been concerned about how the learning of a tired school student is weakening, and this is causing problems with transport arrangements, just because the early awakening is a problem, and not that there is research on the fact that this causes serious heart attacks, for example, in the two weeks that the clocks have been moved. I very much hope that, in line with Mr Berner's promise — and we must believe it — we will be able to move forward with this rationalisation of the whole of Europe so that we can stick to the same time. I remember that when it came to this, it was justified by the fact that in business we want to be better in the common European time, but today, in the digital age, we should no longer have these obstacles. People can face, no matter the time, and business can be done electronically, regardless of the times of different countries. Let us hope that, when this issue is next discussed, we will already be in the EU negotiations so far that we can start to reflect on the procedure that Finland is going to seek notification that we will have a national opportunity to break away from this during the summer or, let us say, from moving the clocks. Mr President! Let the summer shine in Finnish time from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u161	Mr President! Indeed, the turning of the clocks causes fatigue, health risks, learning problems, cardiovascular diseases, chaos depression. These are the symptoms listed, and you know it, while the clocks were turned: When you look out and see that, wow, it's dark, you know, it's affecting your mood. But really, indeed, the impact on people and the impact on animals is phenomenal, and this citizens' initiative has been a good one, and I think the committee's position on it has been excellent and also the message of Minister Berner. I was also here on Friday when Mr Berner was still presenting this issue and said that he is really going to take this up and then do everything he can to achieve this. This just once again shows how strong the EU and the directives are when it comes to regulation, and of course, even if the will of our own Finland and of our own citizens and people is that we return to normal clock order, it will not just be so clever. But it is indeed a good thing that the citizens' initiative received unanimous and good treatment and support from the committee there, and it is hoped that progress will be made and then we will get out of these problems. If you can take a general position on those learning difficulties at the same time, from outside, then sometimes we talk that schools could start later, that it would not be so dark in the morning when children go to school, then I think that would be very much to be welcomed too. When school starts at eight, it's pretty early, yes, nine would be a good thing. It's just a minor comment. As a mother and also as a former student, I remember that mornings are sometimes difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u162	Mr President! As Mr Juvonen said well before, the European Union and its membership are also very restrictive of Finnish national decision-making here in Parliament. Even this summer time that was introduced in 1981, which therefore requires two annual clocks to be turned around, we in this Parliament, despite a good citizens' initiative and a clear consensus in this Parliament, cannot stop, and that is indeed because of this binding nature of the EU directive. However, it is a good thing that the minister present here in Parliament's plenary on Friday and the European Parliamentarians in Finland, like the good report from the Committee on Budgets, seem to agree that the government should promote the abolition of clocks in the EU's decision-making bodies. It causes a lot of harm. Scientific studies have shown that health damage, in particular, is increasing significantly twice a year. Deaths always occur at the turn of the clocks. As Mrs Myllykoski said earlier, we could well move on permanently in Finland during the summer. The main thing, however, would be to give up this completely unnecessary translation of clocks. It would be good for all of us. Finally, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative for bringing this matter before Parliament. Let us hope that this will eventually move forward in the EU as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u163	Mr President! Summer time may indeed seem a small matter, but, as the hearing of the Committee on Transport and Communications at the latest revealed, the turning of clocks twice a year is not only an economic problem but also a health problem that needs to be addressed. Earlier in this debate, there was talk of muttering about the most important issue in the world, but as Mr Heinonen said at the last meeting, for example, the incidence of heart attacks and depression increases significantly when the clocks are turned, especially in the spring when the nights are short. In summer and winter time it is a question of road safety, as traffic accidents have been observed to increase in the next week when many poorly asleep drivers are less alert than usual. In the everyday lives of citizens, turning the clocks is a pain in the ass that makes extra effort and causes sleep problems. Always a watch on a coffee maker or microwave will not be put on at the right time, and as a result, at least I personally found myself at the bus stop at the wrong hour, either too early or too late. As the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications stated in his presentation, Finland cannot give up its summer time alone because it would interfere with transport and communication between EU countries. That is why the committee has indeed taken a unanimous position: Finland must be active in the European Union in amending the summer time directive. However, it drew attention to the fact that some representatives of the European Union, namely ourselves, accused us of this summer time when we, including us Finns, and Finland was already a member of the European Union in 2001 when the current summer time directive was adopted. We Finns are therefore just as responsible for this regulation of clocks and its disadvantages as all the other EU countries. Fortunately, however, what the EU has laid down can also be corrected by the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u164	Mr President! The representative of the plant gave an excellent speech and analysed this situation, how it really is in the European Union. There is still such a dimension here that there are these risks when the clocks are moved, that people's daily rhythm interferes for a while, it is true, but on the other hand we must also remember the fact that we have time zones in this world anyway, which is not worth it now, in my opinion... I warmly support the position of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on this point that we should return to normal times without any exceptions. After all, our eastern neighbour, Russia, has never left for this shift of clocks, which is, in a way, a big exception for us and for our great Eastern neighbour, we are the exception in this line. But in my opinion, this should be a peaceful return to the normal procedure, i.e. the old time zones, as they really are, and that is cool. Remember, too, that this must have meant in time that the bright time would be the working time, that it would not be dark in the morning, that when the sun rises, work will be done during the light hours. It is a good goal, but it is worth remembering that when the clocks are moved towards the summer, i.e. that hour is moved forward and then back in the fall, the benefits achieved in the spring are almost nonexistent, because in the spring there is already unlimited light. Everyone knows that the day has already been to Lapland and even here in the south. It's all gone for nothing. This decision, which was taken at the time, 2002 only shows that, at the discretion of the time, it was done so, now we are living in this time, and the world has changed dramatically in every way. Let us return to this good old practice. I have never been in favour of living on exceptions — yes, a normal, strong life is enough. I don't think it's a good idea to move the clocks. Personally, my body does not suffer from it even if watches are moved, but I know many people from acquaintances and close circle to whom it is an abomination. To help them, it would be good to get to the normal time.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-11-16-ps-119.u165	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong the debate in particular, but it may be necessary to say to this Mr Planta that the Finns of Finland should make unnecessary accusations against the European Union about this. Of course, Finland has already introduced summer time in 1981. We were not members of the EU at the time, and then these subsequent changes in the EU are indeed the reverse of the 21st century. However, it is clear that if this EU directive were not binding on us, we could take these decisions here in the national Parliament when Parliament seems to be very unanimous on this issue. At least it seems that the report committee was unanimous, and I have not heard any different views on this citizens' initiative here in Parliament today or on Friday, either. I would say that, if we were not in the EU, we would have a very good opportunity here to decide on this abolition of summer time. Unfortunately, however, the EU binds us so that it is not in our own hands.
