ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u2	Mr President! The aim of this change is to allow municipalities to increase their share of the environment and to reduce the burden of payment on municipalities in the management of these matters. I consider this to be an excellent initiative and legislation, and I hope that this will become so clear in committee that the criteria for the payment of municipal and municipal payments will remain clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u3	Mr President! It is good to have a debate on the waste law. This proposal is now in line with the objectives of the Government Programme in so far as payment policy is proposed to be liberalised so that control measures can be charged to the supervisory authorities for those fees and municipalities in the future to determine their own control rates within the limits of cost equivalence. This makes sense that whoever causes it will also pay. But the Waste Act might now be worth taking another look at. The waste law as a whole is also the transport of household waste from real estate, and there is quite a socialisation of waste in Finland at the moment. We have had a well-functioning waste system in which real estate has been able to decide on the transport of waste itself. It has been a model that has encouraged a reduction in the amount of waste, and now we are moving towards a model that will not, under any circumstances, bring savings in Finland at long distances, but will, above all, increase the cost to the population, and will also increase the amount of waste when such solidarity is to increase. I myself thought that the Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, would also have been here today, when there are more things to do with this package. - Now he's here. Let's make sure we don't miss the record. — In other words, when Minister Tiilikainen is present, I hope that we can have a little discussion about these updating needs, which are more extensive in the Waste Act. Mr President! This proposal, which is now under discussion, is precisely in the direction of transferring responsibility to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u8	Mr President! Every time a government brings in some new presentations, there will probably be something good, but also something to be questioned. Here I was thinking first of all of raising these positive points. The positive thing is that there is no mention of the euro amount in the proposal and that the percentage has been raised to 10%, but the fact remains that municipal waste companies have little money at their disposal and that they also need to invest quite a lot. And if you compare, for example, at EU level with other countries that apply the 20% EU directive on market-based behaviour in order to retain the so-called in-house clause, I find it unusual to claim that municipal waste companies in Finland would have a lot of money. Another positive point is that, in the current proposal, municipal waste still falls within the remit of municipal waste companies. Then, from the point of view of hospital districts and provinces, it should be noted that if municipal health care waste is taken out of the responsibilities of municipal waste companies and the permitted market activity is reduced, municipal waste companies will not be able to provide services to the provinces, but will then have to use more expensive, private waste treatment and more bureaucratic procurement. It's about households. If municipal waste companies today manage to make a small profit from corporate waste, it goes to finance the operation. Once again, if these revenues are lost at the same time as the amount of waste that goes through installations is reduced, the cost pressure on use will increase and household payments may be expected to increase by up to 10-30%. Mr President! Privatisation is usually justified by competition, efficiency and lower prices. I generally represent a policy that, if we can find measures to increase savings and efficiency, I am not against privatisation at all, but, on the other hand, the proposal for a new waste law, together with the procurement law, may lead to higher prices for waste disposal, not just for households but for everyone, and, in the worst case, to even worse efficiency and greater bureaucracy. Today, the neutrality of competition is being realised. In my opinion, the proposal is not about the ability of municipal waste companies to compete in the market, but about trying to reduce competition even by preventing municipal waste companies from providing services. I understand that this kind of feedback has also come from municipal waste disposal plants, so I would like to see these issues taken into consideration in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u9	Mr President! It must be said that Mr Östman did intervene in an absolutely essential matter. When we talk about this waste management, it is generally very well, efficiently, also cost-effectively arranged in Finland, and here there is a great risk that we will go running in a way that produces less service and costs to the local authorities who ultimately pay for it. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: to what extent has he dealt with the takeover of this and this whole entity with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and to what extent has the well-founded views of the municipalities been taken into account? So that it would not be as Mr Östman did well to warn us: you can meet a bear when you are running away from a wolf.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u10	Mr President! I have no doubt that Mr Östman and Mr Heinäluoma have taken careful note of this matter, but unfortunately, what you are talking about has nothing to do with this government's proposal, so I would ask you to refrain from and continue to develop these good points and speeches until the government brings in a change in the waste law, where these matters are to be addressed. That is true of the statements at the moment, but not yet in the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u11	Let us take Mr Östman and Mr Heinäluoma, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u12	Mr President! Let me just say that, at least on this screen, it also said "waste law", so I played risk.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u13	Mr President! I am one of the Members of Parliament who receive a lot of feedback, and this has been the subject of a lot of feedback for a long time. When it comes to talking here, I think it is important for the representatives to be able to feed the ministers, and that is why I asked the Minister how he has taken into account the views of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in the broader context of this issue. And I have not yet received an answer, but I will wait for this answer, in which he could open up a little bit whether he intends to take into account the views of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in further preparation and how they have been taken into account in the preparation of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u14	All right, now we will focus on this Government proposal 84/2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u15	Mr President! That point raised by Mr Östman is coming here, and it is, of course, a good thing that it is being given lunch here, even though the opinion still has it. As I said myself, we in the Waste Act have things that need to be looked at with regard to this citizen's feedback, which I am sure everyone has received fairly. In this government proposal 84, which is being discussed today, it is precisely this payment policy that is being updated in order to ensure that these payments are paid by the right person or the right operator. "In the long term, the control of compliance with the risks to the environment is not necessary for the public Last spring, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, Parliament made a rather exceptional record just taking up this concern about mines. In addition to Winterfell, we also have other mines where this is precisely what has happened, that the controls have failed and that the funds that have been earmarked for the after-environmental management of that mine are a fraction of the costs incurred when the work has not gone as planned. This parliamentary entry is binding and binding on the government, and I would like to ask the Minister. As it draws so close to today's proposal, the way in which action has been taken to ensure that, in future, we also have the operators responsible for these mining issues, that there is so much money being made available there,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u16	Mr President! When we talk about this concrete proposal, I think it is important that this whole development of waste management is carried out in close cooperation with the municipalities, when it is extremely well and cost-effectively managed. We know a lot of other European countries – and I am not talking about southern Europe or Italy – where we have a genuine waste problem that has not been resolved. The municipalities now also have the opportunity to make use of this competitive advantage to make use of private expertise, but they can do so centrally by combining this waste management of ordinary residents with the waste management of companies. That is why this matter is of great importance, and I hope that the government will proceed in this wise way, listening to our municipal court.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u17	Mr President! I think the draft law now before us is a good one. It follows the principle that the polluter pays the costs, and that is right. In that sense, I think that this change is very good. But then, just as Mr Heinonen pointed out here, yes, this same principle must also be able to be applied more widely, that how to take care of, for example, mines or other activities of this kind, which know that there will be waste and potential big risks may be that if that waste problem gets out of hand, then how to oblige the operator to prepare for it so that it is able to take care of the cost of this. Then there is the reform of the waste law, which we know is coming. There have been excellent speeches here that it is worth doing this together with the municipalities, also because we have very different operating environments across the country. Although there is a high level of waste generation and densely populated areas in some regions, there is certainly also a lot of market-based waste management that can work, but at the same time we have large areas where there is no viable private companies to manage waste management. Then the fact that we have a great responsibility for waste management guarantees that everyone’s waste will be disposed of and that nobody’s costs will then again be too high, but that it will remain what the real costs of the waste will be.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u18	Mr President! In my opinion, this proposal is well founded and it follows the good principle that the polluter pays the costs of controls. Not only does this bring the desired resources for waste management control and environmental protection, but we hope that it will also encourage operators to reduce the amount of waste. What I have drawn attention to here is this commentary, which has given some feedback on the fact that the basis for setting charges should be uniform at national level. Of course, this leaves very much discretion to the municipalities in determining the rates, but, on the other hand, it is well-founded in this proposal, which is why this cannot be the case, so that, for municipalities, the imposition of the rates is part of the central area of the municipal self-government. If this were not the case, if these supervisory fees were uniform, then instead of the cost-correspondence charges, it would be as if a tax-like supervisory fee, which would then have its own process and even its own relationship with the order of regulation. I quite agree with this proposal and its arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u19	Mr President! However, this future amendment to the Waste Act has now emerged, and I would just like to remind you that these amendments to the Waste Act must be in balance and compatible with the procurement law adopted by Parliament last year and entered into force since the beginning of this year. It narrows down some of the passions of what is being done in this Parliament on the side of the Waste Act. There can be no conflict between the Waste Act and the Procurement Act. But then to this government proposal itself. In principle, this government proposal is good, but I am referring in fact to what the Minister said earlier, in which case it may concern ordinary people and citizens. This is where the minister brought up the junkyard. Such a so-called scrap yard may be such for the person concerned that he does not consider it to be waste or scrap at all, nor does he feel that it poses a risk, whereas the neighbor feels that it may involve a waste risk and he considers it to be a scrap yard. Well, then we come to these supervisory fees. In Finland, it is the practice for the authority to decide when the control is to be carried out. In the food sector, for example, and in many other areas, the authority itself decides on the need for this control and, for example, on the number of times a place is monitored, and it usually becomes the lowest of a few hundred euros for controlled destinations. I would like to ask the Minister how precise it can then be in practice to draw the line on which activity in the private sector, for example, causes this kind of environmental risk possibility and creates this kind of control need and thereby a bill for the customer.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u20	Mr President! The aim of this Government proposal is to strengthen the financial resources of municipalities and state authorities for the proper performance of supervisory tasks. This government proposal is indeed good and worthy of support, and I hope it will go well. As far as this proposal is concerned, all these statements, which have already come to this in the past, have, as a rule, been profitable in order to make good progress on this issue. What the Minister also said in his own speech is important, in my view, that this should reduce the costs of the municipalities and that the authorities should also be able to act properly. But it should also be noted that payments must be reasonable in the future, so that they do not become excessive. Then, in fact, what Mr Turunen has already referred to, so-called yards or similar. I would also like to point out that, from time to time, when those waste heaps of illegal waste appear in private countries and have not been caused by the landowner himself, I hope that this will not lead to additional costs for those owners of private countries who have not caused them there. I would also like to see further reflection on how to get those individuals who are currently obliged to remove those piles of waste away from the extra costs they incur and what they have not caused themselves. Could the Minister also shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u21	Mr President! I would like to take this opportunity to see the Minister present and to talk about the costs and charges of mines and municipalities and the reimbursement of them. That is where I myself mentioned some time ago — and many others have certainly spoken about this in Parliament — that there are expense burdens, such as noise and dust, a reduction in the value of people's property in municipalities, as we do in Hyvinkää, when there is a lot of land extraction. Has the government considered any other means than a licence fee and, in fact, a monitoring fee, how to get revenue from that disadvantage to the municipality? There the roads wear out and there is dust and this is exactly what makes some residential areas less attractive. Then, if the company’s head office is not in the locality, then there is not really any other income coming from this activity. Has there been any thought of a mining tax or royalties that, for example, is used in the world to compensate for this situation? For example, in Hyvinkää, where I come from, this is a lot to talk about. We have an area where there is good and quiet housing, and then later these mining sites and sand collection sites have arrived, and people have been very sorry that the resale values of dwellings are falling and so forth. Has any consideration been given to these issues in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u22	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u23	Mr President! This is the law now in the concepts: this is in accordance with the wishes of the municipalities, the municipalities have been consulted, this is in line with the wishes of the municipalities. On that level of payments, whether it is uniform or whether the municipalities can decide: we have municipal self-government and, according to it, the municipalities within self-government decide on their payments. They can't be dictated by the outside. Then there are the questions about the content of how it meets the citizens. Representative Turunen took an important point of view that when the so-called taximeter goes running. My own view is that if, for example, a disclosure is made, it is not a paid inspection, but only if a cleaning order is issued — i.e. the authority considers that the situation is such that it needs to be addressed — and then afterwards it will be checked whether it has been carried out, as the authority has instructed, it will become the possibility of payment. But I hope that the committee will clarify this further in its work. In fact, the same is true of this Torniainen’s concern: I cannot answer directly. This bill does not provide a solution to how it is done if someone has thrown garbage in someone else’s country. But this future revision of the Waste Act, which is under way, quite rightly, sets its own framework conditions. About that hearing. I myself have attended the preparatory working group meeting to hear all the parties involved, because there is a wide range of opinions and the proposal will come. Mr Heinonen took up the matter that was under way at the Ministry of the Environment, and many others also referred to this question of mining. Those contributions from the mines have certainly not been enough if the tracks have to be handled, and this is being prepared to improve the situation. Here, President-in-Office, in essence.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u24	Mr President! The representative Meri spoke of the land permit and the mining law cross-referenced, and when the minister did not mention this soil permit here, the municipality will receive income from every land permit, as well as control and every cube taken. So the mining law is completely different, it has different rates.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u25	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u26	Mr President! This is a modification of the Land Use and Building Act, which is small but essentially relevant. It is proposed to amend the provisions of the Land Use and Building Act concerning the building, the floor area and the conditions of the building in the site plan area. Provisions on accommodation, accommodation and work facilities as well as assembly facilities will also be included in the Act, as well as the authorisation to adopt more specific provisions by decree of the Ministry of the Environment. In part, therefore, this is about the fact that the regulations previously laid down in the regulation are now more precise and more rigorously defined by law, but, in fact, that steak, which includes the proper content of the beef, comes from the fact that the building right may in future exceed the gap required by the civil protection or the technical systems of buildings, the flue and the area needed to build a technical space open to public spaces, as well as if the thickness of the partition walls bounding the dwelling exceeds 200 mm. This means, therefore, that when there is talk of this promotion of wood construction, and there may be a need for thicker partitions for sound insulation reasons, they will not be eating up the right to build in the future. Similarly, if a public shelter is built, it does not eat up that building right, but can build up the number proposed in the formula. So this is actually the best content. Part of this will then also clarify the requirements for residential buildings and building site design and the requirements for housing facilities, which will hopefully harmonise the activities of the authorities and increase the predictability of the activities of the authorities, and will also specify restrictions on accessibility and fire safety, particularly from the point of view of deregulation. But the fact that public shelters or thick partitions or shafts, ducts and structures of this kind will not continue to eat up the right to build is the best part of this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u27	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tiilikainen must be acknowledged that he, as Minister for the Environment, Housing and Construction, has been exceptionally productive. In the negotiations on the Government Programme, this whole was very much on the agenda, and it was then that we were looking for ways to find sensible measures to streamline, facilitate, curb costs and thus also reduce the cost of housing. Representative Vanhanen played this role in the government negotiations, and Minister Tiilikainen has made a determined move forward. I do not even remember how many times this law on land use and construction is already open here in some respects, i.e. more of these measures have been taken. Today, therefore, we are debating a proposal to facilitate, among other things, the construction of shelters and building systems, and also to promote soundproofing solutions and the reception of mobile phones indoors. After all, this indoor coverage of mobile communications became quite widespread when, in this House, we were dealing with the so-called zero-building process, which has led to the problems of the lack of proper coverage of mobile communications. This proposal now responds to these problems and states, among other things, that "the licences of telecommunications operators require the operator to implement the cover requirement in such a way as to ensure a reasonable space cover for the coverage area. A reasonable indoor cover is defined in the terms of the licence [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] — this is not, Mr Zyskowicz, the snooze cover, but the interior cover;
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u28	Mr President! This law is a very special law. This is kind of like such a Novel Act that we have received calls on several occasions to correct certain matters. In this regard, particular attention is drawn to the fact that once this government's deregulation has left the process of smoothing out different regulations, then now those things that the government has wanted to streamline, the EU directive wants to tighten up. This just tells me that... [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u29	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen could speak on the next point. But with regard to this government's proposal, Minister Tiilikainen has very well opened up what is at stake. This is the fact that building rights are not taken into account in the same way in the future when they are calculated, so that the population's shelters and these wall thicknesses are not taken into account in the same way. This in itself is an excellent thing, although it does not directly affect the construction obligations of civil protection. But it can be said that it is very good, however, that in some way we can make it easier and at the same time implement the entry in the Government Programme, which specifically sets in motion the abolition of standards for this construction, in order to reduce red tape, and that there is a specific reference in the Government Programme to the construction of shelters and parking spaces. As far as the protection of the population is concerned, it can be said in particular that traders and entrepreneurs are in contact and find it challenging that when business grows and we start expanding a productive building, a factory, when the squares grow to a sufficient size, the obligation to build a shelter becomes a requirement. In a sense, at the same rate of growth, when we calculate the strict amount of money we can afford to use to build an extension and a new factory or other production unit for business, then we have to add the cost to it, even if we still have to build shelter for the population in addition to all the squares required for productive activities. I would at least think it would be good if we could consider this aspect of content in the future if we could do some checking on the construction obligations. I understand the need for shelters too, but perhaps we need to seek such a sensible compromise here. All in all, this proposal is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u30	Mr President! This is yet another good government proposal for smoother regulation and deregulation. This time, therefore, it is an amendment to the Land Use and Construction Act, which, among other things, clarifies the construction regulations by renewing the building order collection. In practice, therefore, the number of building regulations is falling. In addition, the regulations on the protection of the population will be improved and the concepts of correction and extension will be clarified. The proposal also implements a statement made by Parliament a year ago on the presence of mobile communications in crisis situations. These are all welcome reforms, and for that I would like to thank the Minister very much. Improving the profitability of construction projects through increased building rights may also contribute to a certain extent to the start-up of construction projects, especially in areas with high building costs. However, it is appropriate to recognise that, on a large scale, this is not enough if the objective is actually to reduce the cost of construction and housing. It would require greater reforms. A good working list can be found in the report on land use and housing policy published by the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party in the spring. Turning planning into rolling stock, the generalisation of MALPE agreements, the establishment of a one-stop shop principle and the setting of binding time limits for planning are proposals that should be taken into account in the ongoing reform of the Land Use and Building Act. Mr President! So here are some thoughts for the committee on this good government proposal as such. Housing is currently too expensive for us Finns and, fortunately, these projects will reduce this price slightly.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u31	Mr President! This government proposal clarifies the requirements for residential buildings and the design of the building site. It also clarifies the requirements of housing facilities. The reduction in the construction of shelters is a step in the direction of the rest of the Nordic countries, almost in their direction. This government proposal does not affect the obligation to build shelters. I would also like to go down the road myself, but the government's proposal will reduce the cost and bureaucracy of building shelters. That is a very good thing, because it is now possible to calculate the proportion of civil protection to the right to build, to increase the right to build, that is to say, the protection of the population does not reduce the right to build. This is likely to get one more apartment in an apartment building, for example. In other words, when the space required by the public shelters and building systems, i.e. the chasms, is put into the building court, it increases the housing sector and also improves the profitability of projects, and it will also encourage companies to build more and more residential houses. I would be very much in favour of increasing the number of collective population protection measures in the construction of civil protection, i.e. the construction of large population protections rather than the construction of individual individual population protections today, specifically those of the individual household. It would also benefit society more. This is how I'd see it. Then again, when the partitions that divide the apartments exceed 200 million, it does not
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u32	Mr President! Housing shortages and high housing prices are a big problem, especially here in the capital region. Of course, there are many reasons, but one factor is the protection of the population that is being discussed today. They increase the cost of construction and it is therefore good to consider ways to reduce their construction obligations. That is exactly what we have at hand in this bill. It will make housing construction more flexible, particularly as regards the construction of shelters, insofar as shelters are included in the housing sector and when they are not. Of course, the construction of shelters must not go to the other extreme either, because the world political situation can change quickly, and then we must remember that the protection of the population is a key part of our crisis preparedness. At the moment, we have an excellent international comparison of the coverage of population protection in Finland. Only in other Nordic countries and Switzerland can we even get close to such coverage figures. Of course, there is much more to be done about the dismantling of standards, about housing prices and the availability of housing, and a large part of them are managed by municipalities, such as the construction of parking spaces, land reserves and so on, but there are also many things that can be regulated by state law. I would now like to ask the Minister what further deregulation of the construction order is coming and, for example, whether there are binding deadlines for authorisation by the legislator.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u33	Mr President! This is indeed a government series of 'declaration of standards', and this is a good way to lighten the possibility of building up. I would like to raise three points on this government proposal. Firstly, the conversion of office and business premises into apartments is a very necessary change. Then, as Mr Kauma said, the cost reduction related to the construction of shelters and also the reduction of the administrative burden is very important here in the capital region in particular. A third comment, which I am particularly pleased about: this proposal will enable better implementation of the gravitational ventilation system, and at the same time it will be possible to build wood in a way that is quite different from that of the past. This allows for sufficiently loose shafts and a sufficient number of ducts, and then a truly gravitational ventilation and traditional wooden construction is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u34	Mr President! There have been many changes to the Land Use and Construction Act recently, as noted here, but this is particularly expected and good. I myself, long in building supervision, remember that these gaps and external wall thicknesses and population shelters have always been discussed and this method of calculation has always given rise to problems. This is a very good change, even though the public shelter is rarely included in the building court today, because it is located in the basement, where it is not included in the space to be calculated in the floor area. But, of course, the most amusing thing about this size is that if it is built in such a way that it is part of the floor area and the building court, it in itself also increases the size of the population protection that is quite amusing. In other words, this provision could also be improved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u35	Mr President! One important thing that I forgot in my own speech is the issue of the partition, which is actually on the table here — and although Mr Zyskowicz was a little concerned right next to me when I praised the Minister for Housing in the centre so much, I also applaud this point. This arose when we last visited Vantaa, for example, with the Housing and Environment Section of the Committee on Finance. There we got acquainted with wood construction and wooden floorings, and it was this septum issue that raised the problem of the fact that partitions from materials other than concrete became much thicker. Now this proposal also responds to this problem, which means that the calculation is no longer determined by the thickness of the wall. It brings wood construction and also materials other than concrete in the right way, so to speak, to the same line as a competition neutralist, and hopefully also opens up new opportunities for wood construction in addition to what Mr Kosonen has just pointed out in relation to ventilation. One question related to this is, then, how much different sound can be passed through a particular material, for example, on the floor. Tests are currently such that they also support concrete construction in particular and are weak in terms of wood, putting wood at least in a weaker position. Even if such a normal sound of living could be taken away, a certain test was made whether it was now a ball or by what it was made put wooden structures in a much worse position than concrete. But it's a great thing to add this certain kind of neutrality to these building materials,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u36	Mr President! I was a little ahead of my time here, as it seems to be the KD today — even in that earlier case, Mr Östman was ahead of his time, and so it was. Now that there has been a great deal of praise for this proposal, I would like to raise one more point: this is a proposal that will bring enormous savings to public construction. For example, when large cities and urban areas already have plenty of shelters and schools are being built there along good lines, this will make it easier for them and bring considerable savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u37	Mr President! It is good to note that here, when we have spoken, we can say that public opinion is that this government proposal and its content are considered very good. Where a representative: The period mentioned above stated that Finland has handled matters exceptionally well with regard to the coverage of population protection, and this is true. In this sense, too, it is easy to support the idea raised here by Mrs Torniainen that it might be a good thing for the future to be able to move more towards the construction of the general population shelters. After all, we have quite a lot of facilities and facilities that could be used for this purpose. I would like — and I could almost ask Mr Tiilikainen, when I have the impression that you have, for your part, tried to promote this development — to take a step forward in this kind of civil protection and at the same time bring down the cost of construction, because we are constantly suffering, especially in the capital region, that the cost of living is going to rise and take too much of people's income so that it is detrimental to employment and people's livelihood. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be possible to move on and make changes on this issue a little more courageous.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u38	The Minister has also been given the floor, but before that, Mr Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u39	Mr President! Indeed, it has now become clear that everyone is very much in favour of this government proposal. This is, however, such a legislative clarification rather than a revolutionary new one. However, the financial impact of this proposal is small or small, if not non-existent — it should probably be revised in greater detail. I was wondering, Mr President, that when there has been an ongoing debate under the leadership of the government on this Norm, I would like to hear from the Minister whether this is not a proposal which might have been accompanied by something more ambitious than that which might have been dismantled from the construction sector or, as Mr Salmon has already pointed out, perhaps something more ambitious could have been put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u40	Mr Wallinheimo and then Mr Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u41	Mr President! The fact is that we do have a lot of standards which, in a certain way, increase the price of our construction, and perhaps the three biggest ones, however, are parking parking, accessibility and these shelters, of which Mr Salmon spoke. This is an interesting equation in the sense that, in principle, if we were actually doing this norm, what the level of ambition will be, we could still get a 100,000-euro apartment. And perhaps I would ask the same question about these people's shelters, now that we are talking about whether we could even raise that ambition on this issue of civil protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u42	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u43	Mr President! Thanks for the encouraging feedback. I like listening to that too. These matters, which have been tried to resolve by law, came up quite well here. Some questions arose, mainly as to whether more could have been done in connection with this law. I am sure that reforms can always be lumped together, but when, for example, Mr Kauma asked about this streamlining, the entire collection of building orders is under review. We have examples of those parts which have already been made that the number of regulations has been dropped to one quarter of the previous one, instead of 40, it has been possible to put things into 10 to 11 and this is still going on. As you know, the building order collection is huge and is constantly being made. Similarly, the overall reform of the Land Use and Building Act will continue where it has been so far. Speeding up the planning process, it has already been done in many of the proposals, for example, this change in the use that Mr Kosonen has raised, where office space can be converted into residential buildings if the city wants — in practice, all the legislative barriers have been dismantled, it is in the hands of urban decision-making. It was a very good thing that this issue of population protection rose more broadly. Indeed, this is really only a slight reduction in the costs, but this is what can be done on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment on issues of civil protection. More can be done on the Ministry of the Interior's side, and the government is going to do this. The possibilities are such that the limit of square metres is raised, the size of which is required for buildings to be protected, and the second possibility is the use of common population protection, which has also been raised here by the representatives, and it is also explained that the conditions and distances under which these common population protections could be relied on could be met. There is a working group in the Ministry of the Interior on this subject, whose deadline is until the end of this year, and I really hope that there will then be much more rigorous proposals to move this issue of civil protection forward, but it is indeed the responsibility of another ministry. Furthermore, what will certainly make for a smoother construction, infill, for example, and will allow more use to be made of building rights or more housing on the site in question, for example, is this amendment to the Housing Company Act, which aims to abolish this unanimity requirement in the Government Programme, and this in turn is an issue in the preparation of the Ministry of Justice. I hope that this will also be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u44	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u45	Mr President! Now all the representatives above their time can concentrate, namely the government's proposal 86, which has already been well-heard. Much has been said about the energy certificate in Parliament over the years. Now, in this government proposal, it is proposed to amend the exemption list for this energy certification obligation so that two more types of building required by the EU directive will be subject to the energy certification procedure. This is a surprise for the population shelters and greenhouses. After all, Finland has received official comments on these energy certification issues for a long time, and when it is sometimes considered whether Finland is the first country to implement EU legislation, I can give you comfort, ladies and gentlemen, that in this energy certification issue 25 Member States have been quicker than we are. That with Slovakia we are now the last ones to implement these last regulations. Well, what does this mean in practice? Until now, that energy certificate has been required in the shelters when it is part of the existing building. So this now brings into the scope of the energy certificate population shelters that are separate, heated buildings and have a surface area of more than 50 square meters, as is the case with the basic case. Well, then that other thing, namely greenhouses, yes, now greenhouses are listed here, as required by EU legislation, but in practice there is no need to extend energy certification obligations to greenhouses, because greenhouses can also be compared to industrial buildings. In addition, greenhouses are subject to voluntary energy efficiency contract practice, which will allow energy efficiency obligations to be met without any new regulation. But now the word 'greenhouse' has been mentioned in the law and in that respect has been implemented in this directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u46	Mr President! I have already spoken so brilliantly about this that I will no longer spoil it with further speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u47	Mr President! One of the central objectives of the government has been the dismantling of unnecessary bureaucracy and standards that discipline citizens. Unfortunately, however, the bureaucratic European Union seems once again to be a brake on this issue. This time, the EU Commission has decided, in all its wisdom, that Finland is not sufficiently slavish in its application of the Energy Certificate Directive, but that it is supposed to allow too many exceptions. That is why we are now dealing with a government proposal aimed, among other things, at adding shelters and greenhouses to the energy certification procedure. At the same time, the government proposes changes in terminology that aim to improve the understanding of energy certificates. Unfortunately, however, this is an inadequate measure if the real purpose of the government is to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy. Energy-efficient construction and improving the energy performance of buildings are in themselves to be welcomed from an environmental point of view, but at the moment the energy certificate does not serve its purpose but rather seems to be an indispensable evil for the consumer to acquire from a new or sold site. The energy certificate should highlight actual consumption rather than calculated estimates. Mr President! In 2012, in connection with the discussion of the Energy Certificate Act, the Finns submitted an objection, justifying it as a costly and bureaucratic change that penalises citizens and puts them in an unequal position through the energy formula factor. Now, five years later, the experiences of the energy certificate are very contradictory, and it has proved to be exactly what we, the Finns of Peru, described it as: a necessary evil that disciplines the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u48	Mr President! As Mr Immonen said just now, the interest should be monitored in time and it is better to be wise in advance than to be wise afterwards. Now we will be wise afterwards and we will be dealing with energy certification again. The last time the matter was discussed, it was a question of 50 square meters and larger garages going under an energy certificate. At the time, the Social Democrats, who are currently not in the Chamber — well, now there is one — were concerned that their large garages would go under the energy certificate. The rich have the troubles of the rich. However, it is no longer a question of garages, but of greenhouses and shelters and the fact that the European Commission is dissatisfied with our national legislation in this regard. So now we have to look at our own legislation purely because of EU interpretations. From our point of view, it seems that the location of the EU and the problem is the same again this time. I would therefore like citizens to follow these debates more widely, what we are wrestling with here and what the EU is missing in our practical lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u49	Mr President! Not only do we now have to regulate and clarify the implementation of the directive, but we also have a citizens' initiative in connection with the energy certificate. In the course of its deliberations, Parliament adopted such a statement: "The Parliament requires that the government take urgent measures to change the content of the energy certificate for small houses to be more easily understood, eliminating the problems of comparability caused by the multiplication of energy sources." We have already spoken about these coefficients, which, admittedly, are a little challenging and do not always tell the ordinary citizen the reality either. In fact, it could be said that these coefficients have made electrically heated small houses quite a bit, one might say, a swear word. One might wonder, if I may lighten it a little bit, that while electric heating has become the beginning of all evil in energy policy, then electric cars are saving the world. This is something that many people in the country do not understand, how can it be that if the electricity is put in that car, it is saving electricity, and then when it is put in the heating of the house, then it is a terrible thing. In my opinion, the environmental performance of electricity depends largely on how it is produced. If it is produced in a carbon-free and smart way, electricity is the best energy. It's the smartest form of energy. When we go into housing, for example, to save energy costs, electricity consumption rises, because all automation, intelligent heat, air conditioning and other adjustments,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u50	Mr President! This bill actually implements the EU's provisions for us by bringing greenhouses, shelters and some other buildings under the energy certificate, so this change is now being dictated by the EU. Unfortunately, this method of drawing up energy certificates is not fully operational in all respects and is not being corrected by this legislative proposal, as Mrs Immonen, for example, has already pointed out very well. The obligation to draw up energy certificates originates in the EU, but nevertheless includes national possibilities to organise or implement this system in the way Parliament wants. In Finland, energy certificates are largely based on a calculated procedure, where the consumption figure is weighted by the administrative factors defined for energy forms. However, from the point of view of citizens and residents, the procedure is highly questionable, which I believe is likely to reduce the confidence in the energy certification system. This is largely due to the fact that the difference between calculated and actual consumption can be very large and, for example, does not take into account the way electricity is produced in the case of a house with electric heating. Especially in electrically heated buildings, these certificates, which pay hundreds of euros, are viewed with great amazement by the fact that they define a high E number for residents. Indeed, the coefficient of electricity is the highest of the five factors in use, and it is also questionable whether energy certificates have been used at all in all shops when the actual benefit to the buyer is quite theoretical. In practice, buyers are interested in the real consumption of electricity and heat in the house,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u51	Mr President! Originally, the Energy Efficiency Directive aimed to improve the energy performance of buildings and thus reduce CO2 emissions by a fifth across the EU. This objective may still exist, but the first law on the energy certificate told the ordinary person, the citizen, no matter where the energy consumption and efficiency of the building were. When the new law was adopted in 2013, the formal coefficients were included. As a result, the comparability was lost, and the ordinary citizen is no longer able to say anything about that testimony. At that time this matter was scrapped, and then we started talking about this political direction, that is to say, the use of different forms of energy in Finland too. This is regrettable, but this is because of the directive that the EU is bringing with it, and that is what this amendment of the law is all about. Decisions have been taken on this issue a long time ago, so there is not much choice here and hindsight does not help at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u52	Mr President! The fact that this government proposal is now before us in Parliament is due to the fact that the European Commission has made a formal remark to Finland on the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings. I can say that thank you to the government for not having been at the forefront of implementing these directives on these very issues. How does this affect practical life now, then, I believe that very much of this will not increase those energy certificates from now on, because at present we already have these very shelters in the energy certificate, because they are very far along in such buildings at the moment. Similarly, as Minister Tiilikainen pointed out, energy certification obligations would not in practice apply to greenhouses, as greenhouses can currently be compared to industrial buildings. As far as the energy certificate itself is concerned, I also agree that the energy certificate should be precisely an explanation of the actual costs and of what they are incurred, not just the calculated costs. The energy certificate must also be clear to the users, not a complicated, multi-page paper, but a very simple one, and it must be clear about what the building consumes and what it consists of. It should also be beneficial to people. At the moment, people view the energy certificate as an almost useless piece of paper that they can only receive in their hands and that they cannot get practical benefits from.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u53	Mr President! The law is now bringing the public shelters into the energy certification process. But the one who is buying the shelter is hardly thinking that what is the energy consumption in it, but there are other things that affect why it needs to be bought. However, in my opinion, the energy certificate should indeed be based on actual consumption, not imputed, and quite a few others think so. In view of calculated consumption, it is not known how the builder has built its wall structure since the end of the game: whether insulation is right everywhere, and how the air locks have been made — or whether they have already landed in older buildings. That the actual consumption of energy does tell us what it is, and it can be followed quite well today. This is what it should be based on, and not on the fact that it is calculated somewhere on the table, which, however, does not correspond to reality. I think we should invest in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u54	Secretary Tiilikainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u55	Mr President! Thank you for your comments. It was stated in itself that these changes now made are small and necessary, whether good or bad. But I will correct that amount so much that I will not give false testimony to another Member State, namely, now I have misremembered. In other words, it was not Slovakia, which has been the last one to implement it in addition to Finland, but the Czech Republic and Latvia have been our friends on this last front. With regard to this electrical aspect, Mr Salmon was fortunate enough to wonder when that electricity was good and when it was bad. Well, I'm sure the electricity's good. The reason why it is considered that electricity-heated detached houses are not necessarily the best is because when there are heavy frosts, such as electricity-heated detached houses increase the peak consumption of electricity in Finland, which in turn puts us under pressure to produce here, and so on. That should not have a direct impact on this, and it is actually a pleasure to note that this energy-form factor, which is too high for electricity-heated self-residents, was significantly reduced about a year ago when this energy certification issue was last amended. But all in all, when it comes to imputed consumption and actual consumption, the energy certificate now describes both of these. So it is a very good and informative thing that there is also a place for that verified spending, because, as many of you said, calculation and practice can sometimes lead to a different result. And now that both are provided with information, the buyer will surely know what he is buying.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u56	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u57	Mr President! The government's proposal to amend the Nuclear Energy Act is justified and quite a few amendments have been made to this nuclear energy law, which was adopted in 87. After all, the law has been in force for 30 years and some 30 amendments have also been made. The present proposal brings about a change because the update of the nuclear safety directive of the Council of the European Union following that nuclear accident in Fukushima brought certain changes. Well, we, as such, had already taken account of these other changes in the legislation, but it is now precisely that piece of legislation on the dismantling of nuclear installations that is the point in which the nuclear energy law is being supplemented. All in all, the amended Nuclear Safety Directive highlighted nuclear safety and, of course, the objective is to achieve a uniform and high level of nuclear safety everywhere. Fortunately, we have had a very high standard of nuclear safety in Finland, and the Finnish Radiation and Nuclear Safety Agency, which was established as early as 58 years ago, is an internationally recognised and recognised expert organisation in the field of radiation and nuclear safety. Indeed, most of the new Euratom requirements are already in Finnish legislation, and right now these issues relating to the dismantling of installations are being raised. As regards the obligation to self- and peer-review national nuclear safety and the timing of periodic safety assessments of nuclear installations, the law will also be amended. When I told you that this legislation on decommissioning or decommissioning of nuclear installations is now being introduced into the law, nuclear installations in Finland have so far not been decommissioned and there is no regulation on the decommissioning of nuclear installations. However, it is necessary to update the law in order to cover all stages of the life cycle of a nuclear plant and then be ready for future needs. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has also drawn attention to the lack of authorisation for decommissioning from Finland’s national legislative stage, and it is also necessary to add the authorisation phase to the legal system. There are also some minor technical changes to this proposal, but here the main content, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u58	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good introduction on such an important issue. We Finns often wonder where we are good and internationally competitive. Nuclear power, related competence, is one such thing. Finnish nuclear expertise is the world's top. Demand is actually everywhere in the world. That knowledge is an export product. We get a lot of contact from all over the world, most recently from Japan, so that we can come and get to know Finnish nuclear expertise, Onkala. In fact, the hollow is already a word that has come into the Japanese language. Nuclear power produces around 11% of the world’s electricity, and there are about 400 reactors running. The largest number of nuclear power plants is located in the United States and France. In Finland, around 30 per cent of all electricity produced by nuclear energy has been produced in 16 years, which corresponds to about one third of all electricity consumed. As the Minister stated, the amendment to the Nuclear Energy Act implements the supplement to the EU Council Nuclear Safety Directive adopted by the Council in 2014. It is also proposed to include provisions on the authorisation of the decommissioning of nuclear installations. Then why are we doing this? The Nuclear Safety Directive aims at a uniform and high level of nuclear safety throughout the European Union. The amended Directive stresses the importance of nuclear safety and the integrated development of nuclear safety throughout the European Union. The Directive requires, inter alia, the organisation of Union-wide peer reviews in all Member States on specific nuclear safety issues. The requirements of the amended Nuclear Safety Directive are already contained in the national law already in force, but the requirements of some directives make it possible to amend the law. Mr President! In Finland, nuclear installations have so far not been decommissioned and the law has not included any regulation on the permit for decommissioning nuclear installations. It is therefore necessary to update the law in order to cover the various stages of the life cycle of a nuclear installation. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has also drawn attention to the lack of authorisation for decommissioning in Finland’s national legislation. It is therefore necessary to add the authorisation phase to the legal arrangement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u59	Mr President! Minister Tiilikainen: This proposal for amendments to the Nuclear Energy Act is welcome and necessary, in particular with regard to nuclear safety, the clarity of the authorisation processes, and now also as regards the decommissioning of the nuclear plant and the obligations, responsibilities and information obligations of the permit holders of nuclear power plants, i.e. nuclear waste managers. The ministries and other authorities seem to consider the changes proposed in their opinions to be quite appropriate. However, what is striking is that the nuclear power companies themselves take a negative view of some of the changes, as well as the Energy Industries Association and the Confederation of Finnish Industries, strangely enough. However, the draft law is largely well supported. But now that the preparation of this bill has been accompanied by an assessment of the need for change, some of these needs have been sadly omitted from the bill. One of the very central points is the need in the opinion of the Nuclear Safety Council for a more detailed analysis of the location of the nuclear installation. After all, the approval of the location is now taking place at the decision-making stage, although the more detailed planning criteria for the location will only be strengthened during the construction permit phase, as if only after the train has passed. This should not be the case with nuclear installations of major importance to society. On the other hand, despite the points raised in the draft law on the extension of transparency and empowerment, decisions on the extension of the life of nuclear installations are still not proposed to apply the international environmental impact assessment process under the Espoo-Aarhus agreement, which would be quite appropriate in the interests of transparency. It should also be noted that Article 13 of the Nuclear Energy Act does not apply to: The amendment proposed to the 'consultation procedure' — which, by way of a clearer wording, indicates that the wider public is to be addressed rather than the earlier wording of locality — is in reality the other current practice, as can be seen from the detailed explanatory memorandum of the draft law. Mr President! It is true that, unfortunately, the right to express an oral and written opinion in consultation procedures, which is guaranteed by the current nuclear energy law and also by the draft law, for the parties concerned and for the general public as a whole, has proved to be an equally large theatre in the context of the lively and phase-rich nuclear plant projects that have been under way in recent years. In accordance with Article 20(2) of the Constitution, the possibility to influence decisions on habitats is a beautiful idea. Through the consultation procedures of the various stages of authorisation under the Nuclear Energy Act processed by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, there is no such possibility of influence — freedom of opinion and expression, of course. That is why, Mr President, the whole life-cycle regulation of a nuclear installation, which is the starting point of the Euratom directives, and the application of authorisation procedures to all stages of the life-cycle of a nuclear plant, is very important and should be taken seriously. I welcome the clarification of Article 9 in the draft law, which emphasises the responsibility for the nuclear safety of a nuclear power plant only to the applicant, namely the nuclear power company. This also applies to the products and services of subcontractors and contractors of the nuclear plant project. The responsibility for meeting those safety criteria also lies with the applicant for the authorisation. However, this should not lead to the release of the nuclear plant’s subcontractors from normal liability for damages. In addition, the applicant for the authorisation should also have at least responsibility for nuclear or radiological safety at the place where the fuel is produced and sourced. Taking into account the whole life cycle of production, accreditation should be carried out responsibly and reliably from the start point of production to the end. It is excellent that the transitional provisions of this largely good and acceptable draft law have been formulated in such a way that the new law and its amendments will apply to pending nuclear energy issues when it comes into force. It'll all end in time. Mr President! This bill lacks the necessary change: there may be a situation in which the government of the country should be able to close the nuclear power plant without a normal, normal process of authorisation. I suppose that's also possible in today's world.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u60	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 8 September 2017. Now the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u61	Mr President! This bill concerns the taxation of the cultivation of the Doctrine and a few other superfoods. According to the bill, it would be important to turn the taxation of farming from earned agricultural income into capital income, as is the case with other forestry incomes, since the bill states that it is a forest product. Or is it, after all, agricultural farming, it is certainly a matter for consideration in the committee. From now on, I'm just talking about the man in the van, because that's what I know the most about. I understand that the goal is to produce 300,000 kilos a year for a preacher, which would generate hundreds of millions or even billions of euros a year. According to different sources, the price per kilo of the raw man is as high as EUR 30 per kg as EUR 100. For the rest, it will yield more than hundreds of euros per kilo. In other words, when it comes to all the superfootes that are being cultivated, it will certainly be a billion-dollar business in the future if it is properly managed in this country. I very much hope that the government will also be involved in this. Collecting a van as such does not belong to everyman’s rights, so the material is protected in that respect. In particular, if any super-foot is grown in an industrial way, there is certainly no reason for the neighbor's appetizers, I think that is clear. But the chaplain in itself, like other superfoods, is a good and worthy thing and certainly the cultivation and use of it becomes commonplace. Perhaps at some point all of us will grow up in our home a birch that is stunted and cultivated by a chaplain. After all, the chaplain also grows in such a poor - grown forest. Perhaps, who knows, at some point we can also help the child and teacher victims of mold schools, namely those who have fallen ill because of the moldy environment. Before we start applying for tax relief at this stage for one product group, be it forest products or agricultural products, I hope that the committee will consider carefully what it costs and how it is financed. As far as tax laws are concerned, I would remind you that even if no one should increase taxation now, equal taxes will rise. For example, as I recall, taxes on alcohol, tobacco and real estate are at least rising. In addition, the child allowance will be abolished, which is also likely to be related to taxation. In this situation, where the country is now, it should be made a priority, in addition to eliminating unemployment, to eliminate child poverty. Keeping a child allowance would not be much, but it would be a hand extension for families with children. Healthy, healthy children are the future of this country. The repair of mould schools is therefore also of paramount importance, and even a vigilante capable of export control does not need and should not need to be spared in the future for children exposed to mold. We need to be able to take care of these kids before they get sick. By the way, the van itself helps to keep the airways open. I'm a committed super-food user, especially a man who's quite familiar. But we must have enough money to avoid deliberately making our future, our children, students visiting moldy spaces sick.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-09-12-ps-85.u62	Mr President! This bill by Mr Ala-Nissilä has been very interesting and has already given rise to a wider debate. It has been done in such a way that, when a problem is discovered, a bill is taken to correct it, and it has become clear that collecting these gypsies is a useful activity and produces products that many feel have health effects. Now, however, I myself would have liked to see a little more financial calculations in this proposal as to the possible tax implications of this proposal: if taxation were to be changed in this way, what kind of business would be involved, how much would it have to be taken into account in the state budget, if such a change were to be made now, what would perhaps be its impact in the future? If taxation seems to be reduced in this respect for these products, then, of course, there would also be a need for justification as to why this is happening.
