ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by representative Harry Wallin and others. on the question of the status and future of rail transport. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 3 October 2017. There is a representative of Harry Wallin who is represented by Katja With the support of Mr Taimela, I have put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. In this context, discussions on matters of the agenda are also allowed between 5 and 9.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u3	Madam President! The Government’s central objective in tax policy is to support growth, work and the conditions for entrepreneurship. The starting point is, firstly, broad tax bases and, secondly, lower tax rates. In order to encourage work and entrepreneurship, we have continued to reduce the tax burden on labour taxation and entrepreneurship in particular. The focus on taxation has also been shifted to the taxation of disadvantages. Another essential choice in tax policy is that the government balances public finances by reducing expenditure, not by raising taxes. During the previous government, half of the adjustment was made by tax increases, which resulted in a reversal of the tax rate and a slowdown in economic cycles. That was the solution used in the midst of the crisis at the time, but I do not see that there is a return to that. It is also essential in this Chamber to remember that ordinary middle-class Finns are paying for tax increases made.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u6	Before going to the debate, representatives from Harakka, Viitanen and Ala-Nissila will be taken from the list of speakers. — Representative Harakka, gone. Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u7	Mr President! There is indeed an important issue on the table today, taxes, and there is also a great deal to be said about this particular kind of income-sharing policy of the government as a whole, which we have discussed very much here in Parliament, also in the context of the budgetary referral debate. We Social Democrats have, of course, called for the government, with its own choices of values, unfortunately, to increase inequalities and also differences in income in society, and many things could be done differently. This is where Minister Orpo explained the good lines of the government, but what about the fact that the government seems to have the potential to reduce taxes on, for example, millions of inheritances or to give these reductions and reductions to the owners of large forest farms, but at the same time the government cannot afford to secure an equal school path for all schoolchildren? Big cuts are made in education, basic human security and all this, and this is the big message that we can talk about in the context of these tax laws as a whole. Prime Minister Sipilä himself recently admitted that the policy of this government is increasing inequality, and both the Parliamentary Information Service and the Ministry of Finance's own calculations show that the government's own choices in that yellow budget book that we have before us increase income disparities — unfortunately. This tax solution also contributes to it, it has a certain line of growth in income differentials, and the big picture that this is now, unfortunately, creating is that, overall, the government also favours the most well-off, while, at the same time, the low and middle incomes do not turn out so well. Unfortunately, this year, for example, the purchasing power of small and medium-income pensioners remained a minus mark when we made calculations with the information service. Such worrying features have been present throughout these government decisions for over two years. President! We Social Democrats were also surprised in this tax package by the fact that the government has not spoken very loudly about the big flaw that is inside, that is to say, taxation is being tightened up by a large number of families with children. While the government itself correctly lowers early childhood education fees, at the same time, with the abolition of child deduction, a lot of families with children will have to pay stricter taxes in the coming year. For example, in a family where a couple of thousand euros a month is made and there are two children, the tax burden increases by 200 euros a year, and that is not really fair or fair. We must also take care of families with children and their purchasing power as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u12	Congressman Ala-Nissila, as I said before.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u13	Mr President! It is important that Parliament can hold a tax debate in this context. Unfortunately, I think that the representatives of the SDP, Mr Viitanen, are quite marginal in these discussions. [Quick Five] Of course, it has been very important that we return to Finland to do what we are doing, that we make a big turn, that we have made the economy grow. During the last parliamentary term, we went in the other direction, there were 100,000 new unemployed people, each year taxes tightened — one of the economic errors you made during the last parliamentary term. In this way, real inequality was created in Finland for years. Of course, now that the economy is rising, we assume that the tide will have to raise all the ships — it is important to the centre — it will raise all the ships and the solutions must be fair. That is why we felt that, now that we are all on the force, it was good that the High Tax was abolished from those on low incomes, and it was good that the solidarity tax is going to continue next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u20	Let's go to the debat. I'll ask you to report to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u21	Mr President! It has to be said that incredible contributions were made from government parties in that avoiding the growth of income differentials does not seem to be one of the main objectives of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u24	Madam President! It is good that the focus of this budget is on ordinary Finnish people. The tax policy led by the Minister of Finance, Orpo, is producing results, as we have heard here. The economy is growing, employment is improving and unemployment is falling. The line has now been chosen that taxation can also be reduced and, in fact, quite a few different taxes are currently producing better than when tax tightening was the line. The tax burden on labour has been reduced, and even next year no one will be taxed more heavily. [Left: Families with children!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u25	President, President! It was quite surprising that Mr Ala-Nissilä, the chairman of the tax section, was apparently not aware that the government had already put in place a working group to reform business taxation. And what was the result? The result was that of the modest changes made by this working group — and it is good to remember in this Chamber too that the main message of the working group was that the Finnish company tax is in good condition and competitive internationally — the tiny proposals made by this working group, the government was afraid to implement any of them, so that the next government's work, i.e. the road map, will now be carried out with piety. Why do you not use your power and carry out reforms when they were offered to you here?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u26	Madam President! This is where Mr Harakka said that the system is in order. Then he said it had to be changed. Now I do not understand this logic, but it was really not the time for dividend taxation to be tightened, which was one of the proposals of this working group set up by the Ministry of Finance. You can say that the Finnish business system is in order at the moment. We must look to the challenges of the future as the world around us changes in the near future. On the other hand, labour taxation is not in order. We are taxing work too heavily and we must be able to influence it in the future. I hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this as a former, or perhaps even today, as a working party, in order to contribute to this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u27	Mr President! Twenty-five years ago, the Aho government actually reformed the tax system in practice,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u30	Mr President! The fact that the Minister of Finance quotes Margaret Thatcher in her presentation of the government's tax laws tells us all about where the economic policy of this government comes from. Representative Heinonen here also revealed who the usual Finnish for the assembly is when he said that the average Finnish is at the heart of this budget. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u31	Mr President! Very recent studies show that these solutions have been the most beneficial for low-income families, and next year there will be a lot of these investments, which means that we will not have more taxation on labour, but we will have 70 million lower early childhood education fees. This brings 6,700 new families to free early childhood education. They are the low - income families with children, and for them this government wants to provide free early education. At the same time, a free early childhood education experiment will be introduced to encourage all children to be included in early childhood education, mothers and fathers back to work. Early childhood education fees for middle-income families will be reduced by more than EUR 1200
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u32	Mr President! I really do not think that the poorest families with children and talking about them are marginal, and that is what this is all about. It is quite true that for some, early childhood education contributions compensate for the abolition of child-reduction, but for the poorest families with children, this compensation will not come because they are already in the zero-payment category for day care, and for them, this abolition of tax reduction is a direct cut. And I guess that's the people who'd need that reduction and financial support in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u33	Mr President! It is good that there are people who are younger than us here, not just talking about the time of Aho or Lipponen, but talking about this day and the future, and I hope that the opposition will talk about this too. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u36	Mr President! Again, I take the opportunity to repeat what I have said in this Chamber many times: There's as much work as we'll ever be able to do. It is a question of jobs — whether a job is created, whether it is offered, and whether it is worth going to work. All taxes on work always give rise to wedges, and those wedges are worth taking away. The more low-income jobs are at stake, the smaller the margins that go there and the more they damage the position of people in this society who are at the expense of low-paid, low-income jobs or unemployed. And now I wish the whole gym had a wish: Do we have the opportunity to focus on a future in which low-paid work, less than 2,000 a month, even if there is no taxation at all? Not even parafiscal fees, employers' contributions. Let's take off all those wedges. We'll come up with other tax targets. Generally speaking, a good rule is: to tax more what you want less, such as emissions or disadvantages, and, above all, to tax less what you want more.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u39	Mr President! Representative Harakka has already referred here to the government's corporate tax task force. Apparently, the idea was to have a social democratic, age-old goal of more stringent taxation on small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized limited companies. That's not what the government wants to do. The government is on the side of small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs. On the other hand, there is now a proposal in the budget for the report by the Group on company taxes on the tax exemption for training financed by the employer. It has so far depended on legal and fiscal practice. Now the regulations are made clear. And if the employer's interest is to pay for an undergraduate, it is also tax-free for the employee. So I think the budget is excellent, the tax proposals are excellent. The Government has consistently implemented tax reductions on earned income
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u40	Mr President! Some 120000 income earners in the highest income tax categories pay 2 percentage points, approximately EUR 30 million a year, an additional tax, sometimes wrongly referred to as a solidarity tax — incorrectly because it suggests that only this additional tax would be the part of fiscal solidarity, whereas progressive taxation is and has always been of a solidarity nature. Personally, I am not concerned that high incomes pay too little tax in this country. However, the Government has now decided to continue applying this additional tax at least for 2018, but what is the situation in 2019? It has been a little different, and now it would be good for the government to hear what is going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u41	Mr President! Families with children are the breeders of future taxpayers and pension system administrators. So a good demographic and family policy is the hard core of the whole welfare and economic policy. Child tax deduction was created during the last government term at the request of KD. However, the government did not want to continue to deduct children from taxation, so the taxation of families with children with low and medium incomes will be tightened. The raising of real estate tax and the abolition of the deduction of children from income tax are significant disadvantages for many families with children. The government’s EUR 5 per month for single parents amounts to EUR 240 per year in a family of four children, while it is exported EUR 400 in the form of a child allowance. I would like to hear the Minister's answer to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u42	Mr President! Even Mr Vartia's rather radical speech contained the seed of truth in the sense that we do have a problem with the fact that even in small income categories the tax wedge is quite heavy. Looking at the Bank of Finland's statistics, all other EU countries except Finland and Luxembourg had increased low-income jobs, but here they had not increased. There was unemployment here last season the one that increased, jobs did not. There is one explanation for this, too, because we have a lot of work that no one can really afford to do, and it does not pay enough for it. It doesn't live on. That is why I think it is a very good idea for the government to go down the road to tax on labour as well. We may have the best math teaching in the world, but it is not worth teaching Finnish young people math just because they know how to calculate whether it is worth taking the job. I think this is something to look at, and this big line is good. There are many very good proposals here, including the change in the form of enterprise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u43	Mr President! What is worrying about this government's tax line is what is evident from the own reports of the Ministry of Finance. After a long public debate and also after a parliamentary debate, the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance will clearly show that these tax solutions are leading to an increase in income differentials. The income gap is growing. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, for a comment on whether he accepts this development. Or is it going to happen that when there are repugnant results, the attitude is, as the Prime Minister said, that we are going to make new calculations and change these expectations and wait for better results to come? I drew attention to the fact that the Minister for Finance, who has generally had a good heart and who, in my opinion, has a balanced and warm presence, did not talk about the problem of families with children, which is quite real, as Mr Östman said. In the vast majority of families with children, taxation will increase. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u44	Mr President! We have all noticed that the SDP is lost, but now they are lost on the wrong side of the decimal point: raising the main issue of income differentials in these tax solutions, while the taxation of low- and middle-income and also high-income employees is being reduced. The government will reduce the tax burden on ordinary workers, low and middle-income employees, and that is a good thing. But it is also part of the convention’s line of work that one who rises at six o’clock in the morning and goes to the cashier of Alepa makes more money than one who does not rise and does not go, and this also requires income differentials. In these calculations, to which reference is made, the income of the lowest-income earners will be reduced by around EUR 3 per month. About half of this comes from tobacco tax extortion. Do demars and greens and others think that a reduction in the tax on tobacco rather than a reduction in the tax on work?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u45	Madam President! It was first mentioned that the opposition intervenes in marginal matters when we talk about income differentials and the impact of the entire budget. After that, a number of measures are listed here to try, I suppose — To quote from the Gulf, let's see the rags so you can't just be hungry. But exactly what you are presenting are marginal, individual picks. You do not want to look at the overall picture, which, on the basis of calculations ordered by the left, from both the Ministry of Finance and Parliament's information service, is once again increasing income differentials. Madam President! If, then, you look at taxation at the marginal level, as you call it, then most of all in relation to income taxes are paid by the unemployed and pensioners and the least high incomes, by capital. This cannot be right, and I ask you now, Mr Orpo, whether you are prepared to intervene.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u46	Mr President! The policy of shifting taxation from the taxation of work and entrepreneurship to environmentally harmful activities, consumption or wealth is quite right. But taxation also has a different purpose: it is important in the tax package that it is able to reduce income disparities; it is one way of preventing the growth of income disparities from becoming too large. That is why it is good that this lower limit of the solidarity tax was kept in place. We would also have put more money into the basic deduction of municipal tax, because it is aimed at the most low-income people who are not covered by these tax reductions in the income tax review. Here too, it would have been an important priority for those with the lowest incomes in order to prevent an excessive increase in income differentials.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u47	Mr President! Reducing income tax is a step in the right direction; that is quite clear. The income tax reductions already implemented during this government period have contributed to the increase in employment and have been partly due to an increase in employee’s hand-held income, while the gross wage has remained unchanged. Today we are also discussing this increase in the lower rate of VAT, as proposed by the parliamentary working group. From the perspective of the Finns, it is a very positive thing. Mr President! However, Mr Heinonen said above that no one would be subject to increased taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u50	Mr President! Much has been said this autumn about whether growth belongs to everyone. After all, the government has so far focused on justifying, speaking nicely that growth belongs to everyone, but — as Mr Zyskowicz has said many times — Mr Zyskowicz, the right to own opinions is, but we cannot have our own facts, and the fact is that according to the Ministry of Finance's own report, the higher the income, the more the Finnish tax policy will benefit next year. Today, this debate has changed. Now the government parties are no longer even trying to hide it — Mr Zyskowicz said it out loud — that income differences are needed. Mr Zyskowicz said out loud what we have been doing here for months: what is the government's line? According to the government, as representative Olavi Ala-Nissilä said, income differentials are such a marginal thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u53	Madam President! It is not a question of marginal income differentials. They are very central issues, and Finland is one of the lowest income differentials in the world, and that is a good thing. It is a question of the marginal impact on the income gap that next year's tax solution will have. As I explained, in this lowest-income decile, revenue will decrease by around EUR 3 per month next year, according to the VM's calculation, and about half of it comes from the tightening of tobacco tax. Do you think that we should, because tobacco tax is a regressive tax, rather than reduce tobacco tax and tighten progressive labour taxation? As regards the need for income differentials, Mr Lindtman, do you disagree that one who rises at six o'clock in the morning and goes to the cashier of Alepa must earn more than one who does not rise and does not go? Do you disagree on this? This really requires a difference in income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u54	Let us now move on to Mr Orpo's speech, but let me remind you at this point that this sitting will be closed at 4 p.m. We can go to this debate until then. — Minister Orphan, up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u55	Mr President! I think Mr Vartia is at the heart of the issue. Our well-being cannot be based on anything other than work,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u66	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u67	Mr President, Mr President! A counter-question to Minister Orpo: If the aim is not to tax work, especially those on good income, how will this welfare society be financed, how will public services be kept at a high level, care and free education? It is not mere malice that we are raising tax resources in order to maintain public services. But the aim of this government is to undermine public services in such a way that people feel that they do not receive value for their tax money.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u70	Madam President! The big picture is that we have an economy that is growing, that employment is improving, that there are fewer unemployed people all the time. We are heading in the right direction. [ Hustles from the left] As far as tax progress is concerned, those on good income pay significantly more taxes than those on lower incomes. That is why we have progress and the government acts in the same way as the previous governments. There is no big change here. So, all in all, your turn has been better. As far as labour taxation is concerned, it should always be encouraging. Thanks to this government, income tax will be reduced in all income categories. And there are good things for low incomes and families, including reducing early childhood education fees. This is important: more than 6,700 families in free early childhood education than there have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u72	Madam President! It is great that we are concerned about families with children and middle incomes, and even when the words 'average incomes living in congested years' are added to it, we would be on the right track. An increasing number of middle-income people living in peak years also take care of their elderly parents, if not at such a distance. The issues of families with children and free early childhood education have already been raised many times here. When are we going to talk about free care for the elderly and giving resources to those who desperately need it? More and more pensioners live in poverty. During the last parliamentary term, the Government commissioned a report on tax-free informal care support. I would ask you, Minister: what would it sound like to have the support of informal care free of tax? It is a small amount of money compared to how much help they make to society, as well as how much money they ultimately make. It'd be big.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u73	Mr President! There was a suspicion that things would not be viewed in the big picture. However, the fact is that our main problem of inequality is high unemployment. During this parliamentary term, when we look at what measures have been taken, employment has increased by 36,000 people and this line of work continues to bite, as has already been heard here before. It is of the utmost importance to encourage work by lowering the wage tax and to encourage people to work, to pursue ahead and to work hard and to develop their own skills. Reducing the tax burden on labour is a sensible economic policy restructuring in all cyclical situations and will strengthen employment and economic growth. This is why the Government's policies are particularly necessary in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u74	Madam President! Of course, justice can be considered on a number of fronts. According to VM's own statistics, the unemployed person who acquired EUR 12,000 a year paid 21 per cent of the tax in 2016 at the average municipal tax rate, the employee paid 8.5 per cent. It is very good for the low-income wage earner, but it is true that the unemployed who are paying 21% will experience a bit of bitterness, especially if it is compared to the fact that the owners of non-listed companies currently enjoy the excessive tax advantage that all the experts have called for to be corrected by the working group set up by Government Minister Orpo in February. Nothing's gonna happen. Yes, there are so many of these injustices in the structures. In fact, the government is taking on more debt for future generations in order to make tax relief possible for the well-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u76	Madam President! Indeed, employment is improving with noise, and one year ago I remember the debates in the other room when we were discussing these employment situations, the opposition then shouted straight out that these are not what you are trying to achieve, not those jobs. Now we know they're actually born. Finland's growth is currently the best in Europe. Let us be happy about it; let us not dig up the bogeymen from around the corner. But look at the last parliamentary term, there were two problems: one was the sharp rise in unemployment, the huge increase in central government spending, the increase in debt, and the real tragedy was seen in the local economy, because you drove the local government into a situation where many municipalities were going bankrupt. And the worst thing about it is that when the municipal economy is being cut with a violent hand, it is those low-income families and those for whom municipal services are absolutely vital. When you talk about things, raise the facts fairly. Of course, you can always argue about small margins, but the big line is about here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u77	Mr President! Yes, I think this is a rather illustrative day that Zyskowicz first tells us that income differences are needed, and then Minister Orpo says that thatcher was, at the time, a co-operative policy, or whatever it was, but all the same: we all understand what is going on after these sentences. Of course, this is a day of joy for the assembly, because here also the representatives of the centre party are cheering for the coalition tax policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u80	When I was talking about marginal thinking, I was just saying that the big picture of the economy would be forgotten: the fact that employment is increasing and we are in line with what was going on in the last parliamentary term — we were actually on the brink of a gap, and if we had continued in that way, the cutting would have continued — would have made a change. This is the big thing, and this is what we should see. I did not say that the distribution of income was marginal. We will certainly look at these in the tax section exactly what all these decisions mean, and justice is important to the centre. We want inclusive economic growth with everyone involved. But the tide lifts all ships, the tide usually drops all ships. The fact that the economy is going into strong growth is important, and the centre is defending the cause of the poor today, we are defending the fact that Finns have jobs at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u81	Madam President! Of course, taxation has many objectives, and taxation is, of course, a whole. Promoting work is an important issue, but we must not forget this income-sharing perspective and how services are financed. Then there is also the aspect of halting climate change, which must not be forgotten either. Unfortunately, this government seems to have forgotten many of the main tax objectives. If we consider what has happened here, the income gap has indeed grown. This is said by Nordea's economist and this is said by the Information Service. The amount of environmentally harmful subsidies continues to rise. In addition, inefficient corporate subsidies have not been cut. If we consider such equality between companies and treating everyone in the same way, it will not progress either. There's a lot here.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u82	President! This tide metaphor has been used here and it is thought that the tide will lift all the boats, but actually in this government policy, families with low and medium incomes are like a small boat between the year and the northwest. So for the other families compensation will come and for others — here, for example, Mr Östman raised the issue of a single parent with four children — then the loss will be 160 euros for this government compensation policy and then for the abolition of child allowance policy. But I would have continued by saying that I consider it important that these index checks on labour taxation have been carried out and thus prevented that taxation is not really going to increase on the job side, but why cannot these same index checks be carried out on the benefit side? Why can't this tide lift everyone up? Why is it that pensioners’ benefits and child benefits due to their freezes and cuts, index cuts, are not followed in this upturn? So this is the biggest one.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u83	Mr President! This is a very important debate, but there is also so much deliberate and probably unintentional misunderstanding here that the eyes are almost dazzled. There's been a lot of talk here about income differentials. Of course, we all consider it important that Finland should continue to be a country of small income disparities, as it is at present. What I believe is that Mr Zyskowicz has, among other things, tried to say here is that when you look at that big picture, the changes are so marginal that they cannot be regarded as major changes. Secondly, what the government is trying to do is that it is always worthwhile to go to work. I think there have also been some fresh speeches here from the opposition that our tax policy is perhaps in need of even more radical reform, so that we will always have something worthwhile to work on.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u84	Mr President! This is not a question of deliberate misunderstanding, it is a question of conflicting government speeches. Some of you say that there is a need for an increase in income differentials, but many say that the growth of income differentials is not seen as a good thing, and yet you are making tax policy decisions that increase income differentials. This trend is quite clear. Secondly, Minister Orpo here said that tax progress is an important principle and, in the same speech, Minister Orpo said that the taxation of labour should be reduced as much as possible. The shift from labour taxation to consumption taxes, which are of equal tax nature, reduces the overall tax progression. It transforms it into revenue-regressive, which means that people with low incomes pay more in proportion to income.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u87	Mr President! Taxation has many tasks. Its role is to support investment, growth, employment, but also to compensate for income differentials. I would like to pay attention to three things: If we want the tax base to be locked up, that means raising the employment rate. Increasing the 1% employment rate will bring 800 million good public finances. This is also the most important issue for the protection of public services. Secondly, in connection with the Kiky solution, solutions were also made for reducing wage taxation. If they had not been made, the purchasing power of employees would have fallen and would have had negative effects on growth and employment. And the third is about the future. If the work becomes polarized by automation, robotization, artificial intelligence, everyone’s consequences, it can happen that there will be low-paid work and hard-earned work. In the event of a reduction in middle-class and average-paid work — these average-paid people
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u88	Mr President! There has been quite a consensus in Finland for a long time that even low incomes and low income incomes are considered to be low income taxes, and this government has in no way deviated from that line. But as the Finance Minister Orpo said there are some of the highest progressive income taxes in the world at the moment, and I could say to that Socialist side that this government has actually strengthened that line, because when you set the solidarity tax at EUR 90000 a year, this government dropped it to about EUR 73000. In other words, justice has also been taken into account in this way. Finland needs entrepreneurs and employers, and this should not be forgotten. A friend of mine who had had a long time in the economy said,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u89	Mr President! Do I have to be profitable to go to low-paid jobs? Of course you have to be. But Mr Zyskowicz, if you were to take that view, instead of giving new tax advantages to those who inherit millions of inheritances, instead of giving new tax benefits to the pharmacists, the most wealthy partnerships,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u90	Madam President! As Mr Lindtman said earlier, we have no right to our own facts. So the taxation of low-income earners, who earn around EUR 2000 per month, will be reduced next year
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u93	Mr President! It should now be borne in mind that the main problems in this big picture are the increase in low incomes, unemployment, the rise in relative and absolute poverty and the increasing inequalities in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u96	Mr President! Taxation can encourage and reward work and enterprise, and that is what needs to be done. On the other hand, people who do not have taxable income cannot be treated with taxation. It is important that, now that the economy is growing and tax revenues are increasing, we remember those who have been severely cut and are in the most vulnerable position. So, in this situation, there is a place for a change of direction today. The old principle of taxing more heavily what is bad, unnecessary or harmful to society and people, on the one hand, and the lighter taxation of what is useful and necessary for people and society, on the other hand, is a good principle. This will lead to a heavier tax on pollution, speculation, endangerment of health, but will strengthen work, enterprise and, for example, the position of children by means of lighter taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u97	Before the Minister, Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u98	Mr President! It may be good to remember that the minimum income threshold in Finland is EUR 1185, not EUR 2000. In addition to that, you can be quite concerned there on the right side: After housing costs, people living with basic unemployment security will receive 71% of the minimum income that should be met. Below this limit, almost half a million people live in Finland, including all guaranteed pensioners. Overall, we currently have 639,000 people living below the poverty line. All these people I am talking about are not covered by the State's tax programme because they do not pay the State tax. But instead they are affected by cuts in unemployment benefit, cuts in child supplements, various other equal tax increases and other increases, such as the rent of a dwelling or the payment of land or so on. These are, Minister Orphan, those people.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u99	Minister Orphan next, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u100	Madam President! First of all, there is the issue of income differentials. The change in the Gini coefficient according to the VM's estimate is therefore 0,01 percentage points. It's very small, practically neutral. Could use an expression like this. And I think it is good in a situation where the economy is growing, because in a period of economic growth so strong as we are currently experiencing, income differentials are becoming more acute.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u107	And now let's get back to the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u108	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, when we talk in this Chamber about income differentials and increasing income differentials as a phenomenon, we are not talking about what is the balance of the bank account between the unemployed or the cashier of Alepa, these people. Last week, in this Chamber, we discussed student housing aid and you asked what was going on, and then I provided you with the material. I can also provide you with material from the income difference study when there is a clear need for it. However, on your latest question: In my opinion, it was absolutely essential. You presented it to the Greens, and I would like to have an answer. What line do the Greens take? Do you want to reduce the income gap when, on the tax side, only part of taxation is progressive and the tightening of consumption taxes is the worst hit by the lowest incomes? So I would like to hear an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u109	Mr President! It's a good opportunity to answer both ways now. If we reduce the tax burden on people on low incomes, if we abolish, for example, employers' contributions, reduce taxation there, that will increase the progress, right? In other words, if we finance this by raising indirect taxes, the burden will be passed on to those on good income who have not reduced their tax burden but have still been subject to indirect taxes. Besides the difference in incomes, it's not a good thing that the top ten is running away. It's bad for the stability of society. But if there is more difference between number one and number two, there will be that incentive, and those incentives will have to be looked at, because if there is no incentive to take action, then the welfare society, this equation, will become impossible. At the moment, this incentive is not good enough. Subsidies for low incomes cannot be cut and
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u110	Madam President! Mr Marin, thank you for the material you have provided. I was not talking about the balance between the unemployed or the employee's bank account at Alepa's cashier, but I was talking about what Mr Vartia was talking about when he said about the difference in income between the first and the second decile. So I was talking about the fact that the one who gets up at six in the morning and goes to the cashier of Aleppa must have more in his hand than the one who does not rise up or go. This is also, Mr Uotila, the answer to you when you asked why we should not make the same deductions from unemployment benefit as from wage income. It's because they want to favour pay. As far as the Greens are concerned, Mr Vartia explained this very well — it is the employer's contributions that are being dealt with. But when the Greens say that the focus has to be shifted from the taxation of work to the taxation of consumption and disadvantages, such as smoking and others, this has a negative impact on the Gini coefficient. At the same time, how are you concerned about that development? Why don't Mr. Yanar tell me the answer to that side of the story?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u112	Mr President! I consider it quite reasonable that the cashier of Alepa or the kindergarten teacher who acquires EUR 2,200 per month and from whom you have now taken one third of the holiday money is not unduly taxed but as lightly as possible. But I intervened that while, according to the statistics of the 2016 VM, the unemployed, who earn only EUR 12,000 per year, are taxed by an average municipal percentage of 21 per cent and only 8.5 per cent of employees with the same income per year,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u117	Mr President! The shift in tax focus from income tax to capital, consumption and pollution can be done in a number of ways. Of course, not everything should be passed on to consumption. I can give you a few examples: for example, raising the property tax, which economists have talked about widely, can be one aspect. It may even be progressive, as it has sometimes been suggested in working groups. Tightening the dividend tax will take you directly from the ten-decil, that's also an option. Capital taxation is also an option. So here are a few examples. I could still ask the Minister about these fossil subsidies when it comes to taxation. Is the government going to implement a better, climate-friendly tax policy? There are many subsidies which cost us all a great deal. Are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u118	Mr President! No citizen should be put in a position to wonder whether or not to accept a job. If a person would accept work, in a moment he will wonder what jungle he is going into, whether he will receive any more subsidies after the job is finished. If you think of low-income pensioners and family carers, they are in a very harsh situation at the moment. In my opinion, it might be thought that the taxation of carers would be revised so that they would not be taxed at all, that work is so valuable. But a real question for Minister Orpo. Often even the assembly has talked about the situation of nurses. I talked to my nurse friend this weekend. She works at the service house day by day five days a week very responsibly, likes her work. He's got $1,500 left in his hand after tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u119	Madam Speaker! There is a big picture here, and the overall picture of the economy is that the economy is growing, Finland is doing better, even tax revenues are better than before. Unfortunately, however, the opposition has criticised, for example, this abolition of child allowance. In fact, the previous Parliament in the report of the Committee on Finance itself stated that it was problematic in that taxation should not create a permanent parallel system of child allowances because it would be ineffective for the aid scheme and would reduce the clarity and transparency of the system. The committee also stated that the reduction should be abolished after a transitional period. In this way, the government has followed the will of the Parliament and made a correction for it directly to the families. The fact that more than 7,000 families are completely free of day care fees is not a small matter either, nor is it that the lower limit of the solidarity tax in fact is stricter than when social democrats or the left are in government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u120	Mr President! Yes, this is incomprehensible at this time. After all, we are talking here about the fact that when the money is tight in society and it has been saved, how it is done as fairly as possible. After all, it has now become clear in this debate that it does not matter whether this is done fairly, but that income differences are simply needed. It's been discovered today, and I feel really bad about it. During the previous government term, it was shown that savings can also be made in such a way as to offset income inequalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u123	Mr President! A single mother with four children is not interested in Gini coefficients, progression or percentages. We all have experience here in the Chamber that sometimes understanding percentages and figures can pose challenges. That is why I am still asking Minister Orpo when you did not answer the previous question: when the government gives this much, EUR 240, and takes EUR 400 when the child allowance is abolished, how will you answer these mothers?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u124	Mr President! As far as this child allowance is concerned, the representative: My corner said exactly what it was. When the Social Democrats were in the government last term, you yourself fixed it for a fixed period. You were in the Committee on Budgets when you presented the report which states that it is not actually working. But, of course, it cannot be overlooked what Mr Östman said, that for some families it seems like a severe cut, and that is what it is. This must be done in some other way, but the child allowance was a very poorly built system and a parallel child benefit. As far as income differentials are concerned, if you really look at how they've evolved over the decades, they were torn when Lipponen's number one government was. Looking at it in the long term, there will only be a slight change in this government, which is in itself a good thing. Then there is the fact that the Social Democrats are always talking about a reduction in pharmacists. That's what the government hasn't done. It is the demeaning of pharmacies and of over 200,000 entrepreneurs who benefit from entrepreneurship reduction, demeaning,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u125	Mr President! The only representative here who has spoken of the contempt of pharmacists is the Salmon himself. The question is whether it makes sense in terms of economic and employment terms. It's been examined several times: it's not. It's just a tax advantage for your backup groups, for the well-off. As far as this special tax on middle-income families is concerned, which the government has planned for next year, the report actually states that we should look at the other side, that is, those child allowances. What are you doing? The indices are still frozen. You tighten the taxation of middle-income families and freeze them, cut an index of child supplements. Mr Zyskowicz, there at the cashier of Alepa, there is no need for greater income differentials, which you are now proposing in the budget proposal of this government. When you speak so beautifully of the work being done there at the register, why?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u126	Mr President! The only reason I brought up this apothecary deduction is because you call an entrepreneurial deduction by such a name.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u129	Madam President! Firstly, the Greens, when you are in favour of shifting the focus from taxation on work to taxation of consumption and disadvantages — for example, that we prefer to tax more smoking and less work — you will not escape the question raised by the representatives of Andersson and Marin and the undersigned, for example, that this means that the Gini coefficient is going in the wrong direction. This is the same question for demars: do you really think that, in order for the Gini coefficient to be correct, we will then tighten the taxation of work and reduce the tax on tobacco, because tobacco tax is a very regressive tax? Then, Mr Lindtman, there is no income difference for the cashier of Alepa, but in order for the unemployed to be able to work for that cashier of Alepa, a difference in income is needed so that the one who rises and goes to the cashier earns more than the one who does not rise and does not go. Do you disagree on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u130	Mr President! For understandable reasons, the representatives of the governments here want to systematically ignore the fiscal aspect of what the Greens have been talking about for two years, and it relates to tax reliefs linked to environmentally polluting, energy-intensive industrial activities. Our key fiscal speech has been for the past two years, Mr Zyskowicz, the fact that the government distributes hundreds of millions of euros of these tax reliefs, which the State Economic Research Centre found ineffective, and it seems to be a sacred cow to which no one wants to touch at all. But as far as families with children are concerned, Mr President, Mrs Salmon says that this abolition of child allowances must be done in some other way, and Minister Orpo says that this treatment would be a reduction in the amount of child care fees. I would say that there are children in families with children who grow up from a baby to a day-care centre and then become a school child, and I claim that the cost of families with children of school age is even higher than that of families with young children and that such a reduction in child care fees does not
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u131	Madam President! However, it is clear from this debate that taxation is a whole and we must look at all these issues. It is essential that labour taxation should be reduced in all income categories and then the tightening of the solidarity tax will remain at the current level. As far as these indirect taxes are concerned, it is important for those on low incomes that VAT does not rise. And even the property tax is gradually beginning to be in the pit, because it is then reflected in rents and in the sparsely populated area the property taxes on detached houses are beginning to be so high that they do not correspond to the value of buildings. And the important thing is that the High Tax is abolished: 39,000 people, people on low incomes, are excluded from this tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u132	Madam Speaker! Minister Orpo explained why income reductions for families with children have been taken away and explained what good social benefits have come to children. But I wondered how the families with children in school would benefit from this situation. It seems that these families of children in school will be the most vulnerable now, because they will not have the social benefits that have now been promised. Then the children will have the highest consumption. They eat the most, they wear clothes, they need to go to sports or somewhere else to play with friends, in such places where there must be training shifts and other things like this, so that the expenses are at their highest. And it would have been necessary to maintain this right to tax deduction for families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u133	Mr President! It seems that we agree in this House that it is precisely work-enhancing measures and employment-raising measures that must be promoted. We also agree that we need to get rid of the incentive traps and increase incentives. It is good that the taxation of labour will not increase next year and that the taxation of employees will be reduced by almost EUR 300 million. But when it comes to whether we agree on the tax line: Yes, from the point of view of sustainable solutions for the future, it is very important that we find a common view that if the taxation of work and entrepreneurship is to be shifted towards consumption and goods and harmful taxes, then how is it to be done? Yes, a good tax policy is far-reaching, predictable and encouraging,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u136	President, President! At this stage, it is probably good to thank Minister Orpo for having the opportunity to discuss the revenue side of the budget and these taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u139	Madam President! When Mr Lindtman now advertises this pharmacy tax so much, there would be a representative Lindtman, too, remembers that most of these large pharmacies — of course, the pharmacist’s license has come to them personally — have long since incorporated their business. And you, in the last parliamentary term, when you gave them a 4.5% discount on capital taxation, that's how they got this credit. [Department : No place of detention! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u140	Mr President! Once again, and with patience, this government-made tax advantage: Indeed, more than half — more than half — of these go to the top two income categories.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u141	Mr President! Indeed, lawyers, auditors, pharmacists also operate in the form of limited liability companies very much. When a pharmacist operates under a business name, he cannot pay himself a salary, this should also be taken into account in comparison. That's how your statistics distort. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u144	Mr President! Of course, it is worth considering and taking this criticism seriously and, when road maps are made, studying how it could be targeted so that it actually makes use of what was thought of when it was created. Mr President! In early childhood education, 6,700 new families will be free of charge, that is a good thing. But it does seem rather strange that this cost is to be borne by families with children over the age of early childhood education. Children between the ages of 10 and 15, for example, are in a strong age of consumption and should nevertheless be targeted. Mr President! With regard to the property tax, I agree, as has been said here, that it is quite a tangled up, and that too is very difficult to target, including for the elderly, who pay for their small incomes in their own homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u145	Madam President! Finland is a country of small income disparities when looking at OECD statistics.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u146	Mr President! It now seems that we agree that income differentials will increase. Then some feel that it is marginal and some feel that the differences in income are needed. The second point on which we agree is, obviously, that taxation for the majority of families with children is being tightened. It is justified by the fact that those who have children in day care and who have paid contributions so far receive relief. Whether it is considered right or not, it may be a matter of appreciation. I will take one further point on which it is important to speak, and it concerns the taxation of pensioners. The Committee on Finance received a report showing that there are still pensioners in income groups who pay more taxes than those in employment. And when Mr Ala-Nissila spoke here about these promises, it has been a clear promise from the ministers and parties of this government that pensioners would not be taxed more heavily than those in employment. The question now has to be asked of this promise: when will the government go through this in such a way that the taxation of pensioners is organised in a uniform manner for wage and salary earners?
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u147	Mr President! I am sure we all agree that public finances must be put in order in this country as well, but I am absolutely convinced that cutting off the most deprived, the poorest, will certainly not succeed. I would like to ask you, Minister Orpo: Do you know that child benefits, for example, reduce the basic income support of people living on basic income? Which means they can't have that child benefit the same way we do. Do you know that child poverty has increased? Today we have 132,000 poor children in this country, including imputed housing income. They live there among 660,000 people, they live there every single day. They are our future, our blue eyes, our brown hairs, our lifeline girls and boys, our brisk brown-eyed and black-haired little boys and girls. They live in poverty — it is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u148	Madam President! Indeed, I would like you, Minister Orpo, to respond to this issue of pensioners' poverty and taxation, as well as to what we raised with Mrs Elomaa about family carers. Mr Zyskowicz, I agree with you. I have been on business visits a lot, last weekend in that Ostrobothnia too, and I heard there that there really are no employees there, and it is not a question of not having a job. The work has been offered to Finns, but they do not enjoy it. They feel it's better not to do anything. And in my opinion, this is an equation that should be able to be resolved in Finland. Do you get information to the Ministry about these cases in any way that when the work is started and the work is interrupted, what are the backgrounds that the work has not wanted to do? And yes, the property tax is too high and in its pin. It is unreasonable that you should have your own apartment
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u149	Mr President! I am sure that all of us in this Chamber feel that work should always be worthwhile — even if this example, which Mrs Juvonen has just told us about — and that when you accept work, more money must be left in hand than when you live on mere subsidies. That is why it is great that this government tried out the basic income, and I would like to ask: what has come out of it, and are you going to extend this experiment — now it was just a rather narrow group — so that we can see these dynamic effects too? When basic security is reformed, it is important that we have enough experimental data. Improving and increasing employment is an important issue, but then we have people who live on national pensions, people with disabilities who are not themselves helped by employment growth, and that is why cutting these benefits has hit these people very badly. Now that I've had something to share,
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u150	Mr President! Let us get back to this big picture of what government budgetary policy is all about. I hope that the MPs of the government parties will each wonder whether you really think it is fair for the economy to be adapted so that people with low incomes are cut off — from poor people, students, pensioners, families with children — and then, on the other hand, more is given to the very well-off, the most well-off and prosperous people in society through tax incentives. That is what this debate is all about. Mr Jokinen said here that Finland is a country of small income differences. This has been the case so far. Now we are a country of growing income differentials — thanks to the economic policy and budgetary policy of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u151	Madam President! You can find specialists on that side of the hall when income differentials grow. All you have to do is look at Statistics Finland's statistics. When did the income differentials rise most, by nearly 10 per cent? They rose when Mr Viitanen started here in Parliament during the Lipponen government. Then, in reality, income differentials have grown compared to today. I would like to ask Minister Orpo whether the increase in income differentials is now something greater than it has been in the past. But it also offends me that the pharmacy deduction is referred to as this entrepreneurial deduction, which is above all a question of justice. There is no such social security for small entrepreneurs, there are no benefits, there are no substitutes, and so on, for example, what employees have, let alone bigger companies. This fact that entrepreneurship reduction was achieved is, above all, a question of fairness for small entrepreneurs. Yes, people on low incomes are taken care of: e.g. early childhood education fees, which have been mentioned, the abolition of Yle-Tax and so on, and also marginal taxation, which disciplines those on high incomes more than those on low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u152	Mr President! The fact is that it is also worthwhile for the centre to justify the right-wing tax policy of the Coalition Party to familiarise itself with Nordea's Kärkkäinen calculations, which show that income differentials were levelled last season and that income differentials are increasing during this period. You might want to take a look at this. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u153	Mr President! We are talking here about income differentials so that income differentials would be a bad thing. In my opinion, income differentials are not a bad thing. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: All right, welcome aboard!]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u155	Mr President! First of all, we have to wonder once again about this reason for abolishing the child allowance. Minister Orpo said that the child allowance can now be abolished when the child care fees are reduced. It should be borne in mind that, where the child allowance was applied to these very low-income families and was directed directly at them, by removing it you are therefore seeking to reduce the fees for day care. When day care fees are reduced, it does not apply to the whole of this 425,000 family but actually only to about 113,000 families, so yes here some mathematics now once and for all click. In practice, with these family influences, it can be said that this in no way coincides with or sinks. In addition, it applies only to families with children of day-care age. This isn't.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u156	Does anyone still want to be a part of this? Just a few minutes before the minister's closing statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u157	Madam President! As far as the reduction of children is concerned, I understand that all parties in the Committee on Finance and in Parliament last year felt that the special, problematic child allowance created for a particular situation and purpose was not sensible, and this temporary reduction was to be abolished. Secondly, of course — no one disputes — this is the case that when you have a family of children who do not have day-care children in day-care, they do not benefit from a reduction in day-care fees, but the child-reduction applies to them too.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u160	Mr President! When talking about a big picture, it is possible to make a policy that combines economic growth with reasonable and low income differences. The tax reform that Olavi Ala-Nissila has been promoting here was precisely the central cause of the 1990s. Mr President! I would also like to say that this opinion was an important one, as the group president of the Assembly said. He said that income differentials are a good thing: "Result differences are a good thing."
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u163	Mr President! The city centre really sees income differentials as problematic. We do want justice. But it is true that when the economic recession rises, the income gap will increase. This is what happened during Lipponen's time. If we look, then the curve was particularly steep. At that time, there was also a pretty ugly cut from basic security. This has not been done. If we look at 2500 earners, his income in the private sector will rise by EUR 25 and in the public sector by a few euros. Much better has been done in this respect than has been done in the Lipponen regime. Now that this tide is raising the economy and we are able to respond to the promise of prosperity, as tax revenue increases and employment increases, this is precisely a matter for the poor.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u164	Mr Jokinen and Mr Viitanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u165	Thank you, Mr President. This income gap debate should be highlighted here and discussed. A reasonable, moderate income gap, combined with equality of opportunity, is essential for the functioning of society. Too large a income gap is not good for society. They can violate social peace and create inequalities, and nobody wants to promote that development. But I would also like to make it clear that the differences in income where they encourage people to push forward, to study, to develop themselves, to seek employment and to get a better level of income are good and there must be a difference in income. It cannot be that, being at home, on the basis of social support, you get the same money as you get at work. In other words, work must always be encouraging, and it must also be reflected in the income. And that's where the income difference is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u167	Mr President! Mr President! The conclusion of this debate is that the Coalition Party wants to promote income differentials. That's just the way it is. There's nothing we can do about it. I'm sorry about that, but that's the way it is. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, really, the cashier of Alepa is then greatly encouraged by the fact that the taxation of millions of inheritances at the same time is reduced and so away. I am very sorry about this, but that is the way it is. But, President-in-Office, at this end I would like to raise the question of these pensioners, because I believe that the Minister will comment. I remember very well when, as the group president of the centre, Mr Kaikkonen, approached the budget debate, he promised that a broader programme should be drawn up to combat pensioner poverty. The disappointment was great: the program is not visible, the indexes are cut and, at the same time, the tax problems are not corrected. I will also ask for this promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u169	Secretary Orphan will have three minutes until this end.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u170	Mr President! Before entering the thank-you phase, I would say that when you listen to Mr Viita and the demars, I could say in a similar way that you obviously want to tighten taxes or cut wages for those who earn better, so that everyone has the same income. Is that what you're trying to do? With the same logic. If we go into misunderstanding, this is what you mean. So you want to tighten taxes so much that everyone gets the same amount in their hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2017-10-04-ps-98.u174	We will then return to this debate later.
